VILLAGE CODE
of
LAKE VILLA, ILLINOIS
1983
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-07-04, passed July 21, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Lake Villa, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-07-04, passed July 21, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
Ordinance No. 2025-01-01
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING
THE LAKE VILLA VILLAGE CODE
 
(RE: Section 5-4-9.1, “Water Meters”)
 
 
WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Lake Villa (“Village”)
desire to amend the Lake Villa Village Code relative to water meter
specifications as set forth herein:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois, as follows:
   SECTION 1: The Mayor and Board of Trustees hereby find that the recitals
hereinabove set forth are true and correct and are incorporated into the text
of this Ordinance as its findings to the same extent as if each such recital
had been set forth herein in its entirety.
SECTION 2: Section 5-4-9.1, “Water Meters”, of Chapter 4, “Combined Waterworks
and Sewer System Regulations”, of Title 5, “Public Properties and Utilities”,
of the Lake Villa Village Code is hereby amended to read as follows (underlined
text is added and interlined text is deleted):
“5-4-9.1: WATER METERS:
 
A.      New Construction And Major Remodeling: As to all new construction, all
buildings serviced by the Village water system shall be equipped with an
approved water meter. All existing nonmetered water services connected to the
Village water system shall be metered as part of any major remodeling. Such
meters will be supplied by the Village, and shall be properly installed by or
at the expense of the permit holder in accordance with specifications approved
by the Village. The meter shall be supplied with connections.
 
B.      Costs; Installation; Specifications: The owner and permit holder shall
be jointly and severally responsible for the cost of all meter installation(s)
and/or replacement(s) and accessories costs and shall reimburse the Village for
all such costs. Such costs are subject to change periodically as determined by
the Village Administrator. No accessories or equipment shall be installed
within twelve inches (12") of either side or in front of the water meter. The
water meter shall have a ball valve located within twelve inches (12") upstream
and downstream of meter.
 
C.      Functionality: The owner and the permit holder shall be jointly and
severally obligated to install the water meter so that it is fully functional
and operational. This functionality requirement includes the requirement that
the meter, phone jack, meter interface unit ("MIU") or meter transceiver
("MXU") (phone jack not required), and the outside touchpad all be installed,
operational, and be accessible to Village personnel. The Village will determine
if an MIU or MXU will be installed. Village personnel shall make such
inspection(s) as necessary to ensure that the meter is functioning and
operational. The cost of the initial inspection is included in the fees paid by
the owner. However, if the meter is not functional and operational at the time
of the initial inspection, and should Village personnel thereafter find it
necessary to make additional inspections to ensure that the meter is installed
and functional, then the owner and permit holder shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the cost of each additional inspection at the rate as specified
from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code for each such
inspection.”
 
   SECTION 3: The Corporate Authorities of the Village intend that this
Ordinance will be made part of the Village Code and that sections of this
Ordinance can be renumbered or relettered and the word “Ordinance” can be
changed to “Section”, “Article”, “Chapter”, “Paragraph”, or some other
appropriate word or phrase to accomplish codification, and regardless of
whether this Ordinance is ever codified, the Ordinance can be renumbered or
relettered and typographical errors can be corrected with the authorization of
the Village Attorney, or his or her designee.
   SECTION 4: All parts of the Village of Lake Villa Village Code in conflict
with the terms or provisions of this Ordinance shall be and the same are hereby
amended or repealed to the extent of such conflict, and said Village Code and
all other existing ordinances shall otherwise remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 5: This Ordinance shall not affect any punishment, discipline,
infraction, or penalty or any action based on any other Ordinance of this
Village incurred before the effective date of this Ordinance, nor any suit,
prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the effective date of this
Ordinance, for an offense or violation committed or cause of action arising
before this Ordinance, and said other ordinances as heretofore existing shall
continue in full force and effect for said limited purpose.
SECTION 6: If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this Ordinance or any part thereof is, for any reason, held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Ordinance, or any part thereof. The Corporate
Authorities hereby declare that they would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentence, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
SECTION 7: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after
its passage, approval, and publication as provided by law, but the sewer and
water rates herein enacted shall be prospective or retroactive, as the case may
be, to the respective effective dates of such rates as set forth in this
Ordinance.
SECTION 8: The Village Clerk is hereby directed to publish this ordinance in
pamphlet form.
Passed by the Corporate Authorities on January 6 th , 2025, on a roll call vote
as follows:
Trustees
AYES:       
 
NAYS:   
 
ABSENT:   
 
ABSTAIN:   
 
 
                  Approved by the Mayor on January 6 th , 2025
 
 
                  ________________________________________
                  James McDonald, Mayor
                  Village of Lake Villa
ATTEST:
 
________________________________
Mary Konrad, Village Clerk
 
Published in pamphlet form this _____ day of _______________, 20___.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 83-4-1
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE CODE OF LAKE VILLA, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF LAKE
VILLA, ILLINOIS, as follows:
   SECTION 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Lake Villa, Illinois, prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together
with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing
body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
Official Code and law of the Village as enacted by the President and Board of
Trustees.
   SECTION 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such new
provision shall become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the
insertion of the proper replacement pages in the copies of the Code, three (3)
copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk,
certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any and all times
that said office is regularly open.
   SECTION 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
Official Village Code.
   SECTION 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   SECTION 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the President and Board
of Trustees.
   APPROVED
                                           
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT
ATTEST:
JUDITH DEWAR
VILLAGE CLERK
PASSED:
APPROVED:
PUBLISHED:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
AN ORDINANCE READOPTING CERTAIN ORDINANCES
   89-5-2
   WHEREAS, the Village of Lake Villa has heretofore adopted numerous
ordinances over the course of time; and
   WHEREAS, it is the desire and intent of the Village of Lake Villa Board of
Trustees to readopt, ratify, and confirm all ordinances previously adopted
which have not previously been repealed in whole or in part.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois, as follows:
   SECTION I: That all ordinances of the Village of Lake Villa previously
adopted which have not been repealed in whole or in part be and the same are
hereby readopted, ratified, and confirmed.
   SECTION II: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval, and publication as provided by law.
   Passed by the Corporate Authorities this  10  day of  May , 1989, on a roll
call vote as follows:
AYES      6 (Anderson, Smolarchuk, Jenkins, Lipski, Dykstra, Loffredo)
NAYS      0
ABSENT      0
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official code of Lake Villa. This code shall be
known and cited as the LAKE VILLA VILLAGE CODE, and it is hereby published by
authority of the board of trustees and shall be kept up to date as provided in
section 1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the village attorney,
acting for said village board of trustees. Any reference to the number of any
section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general
penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this code by title in any legal document. (1983 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section 1-2-1 of this title. (1983 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(1983 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village board. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain this code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the village
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the
village board. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances. (1983 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as
this code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this code
shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only. (1983 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or to any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1983 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The village board of trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Code Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be applied to any section of this code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has been
changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not meant to amend
the passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1983 Code)
1-3-2: CODE DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of trustees of the village.
CODE: The municipal code of Lake Villa, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COUNTY: The county of Lake, state of Illinois.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Every reference in this Village Code to the Director
of Public Works of the Village or to a Superintendent of Public Works shall
mean and refer to one of the two (2) Superintendents of Public Works as have
been designated by the Mayor of the Village, one of whom shall be designated as
the Superintendent of Public Works, Water and Sewer Utilities, and one shall be
designated as the Superintendent of Public Works, Streets and Facilities. Where
it is not clear from the context of this Village Code which Superintendent is
being referenced in a particular provision, Chapter, or Title of this Village
Code, the Mayor shall so direct a specific Superintendent to act in such
capacity and for the purposes so referenced.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
village of Lake Villa".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the village
of Lake Villa".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: This term shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, county of Lake, state of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may be referred to as "mayor"
or "president" of the village.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: These terms may include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to
write, by his proper mark. (1983 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-06-04, 6-20-2022)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1983 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of
this Village Code, any person found guilty of or liable for a violation of any
section or provision of this code shall be subject to a mandatory fine of not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for any offense 1. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, "person" shall mean and include any
individual, corporation, association, partnership, or any other legal entity.
   C.   A default in the payment of any fine, or any unpaid installment
thereof, imposed pursuant to any provision of this code may be collected by any
means authorized for the collection of money judgments. The village attorney is
authorized to retain attorney(s) and private collection agent(s) for the
purpose of collecting any default in the payment of any such fine, or any
unpaid installment(s) thereof, and any fees or costs incurred by the village
with respect to such attorney(s) or private collection agent(s) retained by the
village attorney for this purpose shall be an obligation of and be charged to
the party or parties obligated to pay such fine or the unpaid installment(s)
thereof. (Ord. 2008-02-02, 2-27-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Official Time
1-5-2: Fiscal Year
1-5-3: Debts And Legal Obligations Due To The Village
1-5-1: OFFICIAL TIME:
Central Standard Time shall be the official time within the Village for the
transaction of all Village business except that from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on
the last Sunday in April to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday in
September in each year, the official time for the Village shall be one hour in
advance of Central Standard Time.
When reference is made to any time without qualification in any ordinance,
resolution or order heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter by the
Village Board or in any official notice, advertisement or document of the
Village or in any contract to which the Village is a party, it shall be
understood to refer to the official time of the Village as herein prescribed.
When the words "daylight saving time" are used, the reference shall be to the
advance time herein prescribed as the official time, from the last Sunday in
April until the last Sunday in September.
In all ordinances, resolutions or orders of the President and Board of
Trustees, and in all official notices, advertisements or documents of the
Village and in all contracts to which the Village is a party relating to the
time of performance of any act by any officer or department of the Village or
relating to the time within which any rights shall accrue or determine or
within which any act shall or shall not be performed by any person, it shall be
understood and intended that the time shall be the official time of the Village
as herein prescribed.
All clocks or other timepieces, in or upon public buildings or other places
maintained at the expense of the Village, shall be set and run according to the
official time as herein provided. It is hereby made the duty of the officer or
other person having control and charge of such building or buildings or
premises, to see that said clocks or other timepieces are set and run in
accordance with official time. (Ord. 246)
1-5-2: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the Village shall begin May 1, and end on April 30 of each
and every year. (Ord. 7, 5-10-1901)
1-5-3: DEBTS AND LEGAL OBLIGATIONS DUE TO THE VILLAGE:
Whenever any person is required by this Code, or any other ordinance of the
Village, or any State or Federal law, to submit, or wishes to submit, any
plans, specifications or other documents to the Village to be reviewed and/or
approved by the Village, or to have any other matter or thing reviewed,
approved, or inspected by the Village (and/or by any board, commission,
officer, employee, or agent of the Village), or wishes to make other inquiry of
the Village, or to request other Village action, other than an inquiry made
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, the person making such request and/
or inquiry of the Village and/or submitting documents to the Village for review
and/or approval, and/or requesting an inspection, or requesting other Village
action, shall be required to pay and/or reimburse the Village, prior to any
substantive Village action on any such person's request and/or inquiry, for any
and all lawful debts and legal obligations due and owing the Village, including
but not limited to the following:
   A.   Any and all amounts due or payable to the Village pursuant to any
Village ordinance or State or Federal Statute;
   B.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village for any Vehicle Tax
(es), license(s), permit(s), fee(s);
   C.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village for any special
service area taxes payable to the Village;
   D.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village as reimbursement of
expense(s) incurred by the Village on behalf of such person(s) and/or for the
real or personal property of such person(s);
   E.   Any and all amounts due and payable to the Village for any statutory
liens of record in favor of the Village against such person(s) and/or against
the title to any of such person's real property within the Village;
   F.   Any and all amounts due and owing to the Village for Vehicle Taxes,
water and sewer utility services, and/or for solid waste and recycling
collection and disposal services; and
   G.   Any final money judgments entered against one or more of such person(s)
in favor of the Village by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by an
Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer having such jurisdiction, and due
and owing the Village.
No substantive action on any such request or inquiry shall occur or be taken by
any officer, employee, or agent of the Village until such time as the Village
Treasurer, or his or her designee, certifies that all debts and obligations due
and owing to the Village have been paid in full, and except as required in
subsection 3-15-2F of this Code, any payment received from any person shall be
applied first to the longest outstanding debt(s) to the Village regardless of
such person's(s') intention or request to the contrary. (Ord. 2018-03-04, 3-28-
2018)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Elected Officials; Taking Office
1-6A-2: Appointed Officials
1-6A-3: Oath Required
1-6A-4: Bonds
1-6A-5: Removal From Office
1-6A-6: Salaries And Compensation
1-6A-7: Municipal Retirement Fund
1-6A-8: Indemnity And Legal Assistance
1-6A-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS; TAKING OFFICE:
All elected officials which shall include trustees, village clerk and mayor
shall take office at the first regular or special meeting of the village board
in the month of May following their election. (Ord. 81-3-1, 3-25-1981)
1-6A-2: APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
At the first regular meeting of the village board in May of each year, or as
soon as practicable, the president shall appoint by and with the consent of and
approval of the board of trustees the following officers: a village treasurer,
a street commissioner and chief of police, and as many policemen as may from
time to time by resolution or motion be provided for by the village board.
(1983 Code)
1-6A-3: OATH REQUIRED:
All officers, whether elected or appointed, shall, before entering upon the
duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the following oath or
affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
                            according to the best of my ability.
(1983 Code)
1-6A-4: BONDS:
   A.   Bonds Required: It shall be the duty of each appointed or elected
officer hereinafter named, within ten (10) days after he shall have been
notified by the village clerk of his appointment, to make, execute and deliver
to the village clerk a bond payable to the village, with surety to be approved
by the village board, in the penal sum as by ordinance provided, conditioned
for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and prompt payment of
all monies received by such officer, according to the law and the ordinances of
said village.
   B.   Surety Of Bond, Filing Of Bond: No member of the village board or
officer of the village shall be received as security on the official bond of
any officer herein required to execute a bond. All official bonds shall be
submitted to the village board for approval. The village clerk shall preserve
all such bonds in his office, except the bond of the village clerk, which shall
be filed with the president of the board. The village board may at any time
require a new bond to be executed by any village officer, if from any cause
they shall deem the old bond insufficient, but the execution of such new bond
shall not in any manner affect any liability, loss or damage incurred under the
old bond, or release the sureties from any liability incurred thereon. (Ord.
20, 7-13-1903; amd. Ord. 204, 3-6-1939; 1983 Code)
1-6A-5: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The mayor may at any time when in his judgment the good of the village requires
it, temporarily remove any officer as defined in section 1-6A-2 of this
article, which removal shall not extend beyond the next regular meeting of the
village board. He shall report such removal to the village board at its first
regular meeting after such removal. The village board may remove any appointed
officer, as defined in section 1-6A-2 of this article, at any time, but no
removal of any such officer shall be made without a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of
the corporate authorities then holding office. (Ord. 93-10-3, 10-13-1993)
1-6A-6: SALARIES AND COMPENSATION:
The salaries or compensation herein provided and fixed may be paid to the
respective officers entitled thereto by the village semiannually except the
chief of police, who shall be paid semimonthly, and shall be as follows: (Ord.
85-1-3, 1-23-1985)
   A.   Mayor: Effective May 9, 2001, the annual salary for the mayor shall be
six thousand dollars ($6,000.00). In addition, the mayor shall be paid seventy
dollars ($70.00) for each board meeting, committee meeting, except committee
meetings prior to any scheduled or called village board meeting, for which no
compensation shall be paid, and other required meetings which he attends.
   B.   Trustees: The salary of all trustees shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each attended scheduled or called village board meeting and thirty dollars
($30.00) for each attended called or scheduled committee meeting, except
committee meetings prior to any scheduled or called village board meeting, for
which no compensation shall be paid. For trustees taking office after May 1,
2001, the trustees shall be paid seventy dollars ($70.00) for each attended or
scheduled village board meeting and seventy dollars ($70.00) for each attended
called or scheduled committee meeting, except for committee meetings prior to
any scheduled or called village board meeting, for which no compensation shall
be paid.
   C.   Clerk: Effective May 9, 2001, the annual salary for the clerk shall be
three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00). (Ord. 2000-11-3, 11-8-2000)
   D.   Treasurer: The treasurer shall receive as compensation for his services
as such treasurer a sum to be set by the village board. (Ord. 85-1-3, 1-23-
1985)
1-6A-7: MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The village hereby elects to participate in the Illinois municipal retirement
fund, effective August 26, 1981 1 . (Ord. 81-8-1, 8-26-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/7-101 et seq.
1-6A-8: INDEMNITY AND LEGAL ASSISTANCE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to indemnify and hold harmless
village officials, officers, employees and agents acting on behalf of the
village from any claims or causes of action that arise as a result of the
performance of their duties.
   B.   Application: The provision of this chapter shall apply to and be for
the benefit of all elected or appointed officers and officials, employees, and
agents, including, but not limited to, the village engineer, village planner
and village attorney of the village.
   C.   Legal Assistance: The village may, at the request of an officer,
employee or agent, or former officer, employee or agent, appoint counsel to
appear and defend him and pay costs or shall reimburse said officer, employee
or agent for reasonable attorney fees and costs expended by him upon the
following conditions:
      1.   If any claim or action or investigation, either civil or criminal in
nature, is instituted against an officer, employee or agent, or former officer,
employee or agent, of the village where such claim or action arises out of:
         a.   An act or omission made in good faith occurring within the scope
of his employment and respective duties as elected or appointed official,
employee or agent of the village.
         b.   An investigation by any federal, state or municipality, or agency
thereof, involving the officer, employee or agent of the village in nature of
his duties or actions as such officer, employee or agent of the village.
         c.   An investigation of any officer, employee or agent of the village
by any federal, state or municipality, or agent thereof, by reason of his
office, employment or agency in the village.
         d.   An investigation of any other officer, employee or agent of the
village by any federal, state or municipality, or agency thereof, to which such
officer, employee or agent may be subjected to by reason of another officer's,
employee's or agent's duties or actions as such village officer, employee or
agent. (Ord. 88-3-1, 3-9-1988)
      2.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code, or in this
section, no officer, employee or agent of the village shall be entitled to
appointment of counsel or reimbursement for counsel, when his action was
criminal, or done with malice or constitutes wilful misconduct, as determined
by the village board. No officer, employee or agent of the village shall have
the use of appointed counsel or be reimbursed for counsel regarding any
criminal or quasi-criminal action brought against him, except as may be
specifically approved by the village board. (Ord. 94-12-2, 12-14-1994)
      3.   The appointment of counsel and payment of costs shall not be a
matter of right of any officer, employee or agent, but is a matter in the sole
discretion of the village. Reimbursement, however, shall be a matter of right
to any officer, employee or agent and shall cover only those duties or actions
committed within the course of employment or by the nature of the office,
employment or agency held.
      4.   The appointment of counsel shall be made by the president, with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees. The president, with the consent of
the board of trustees, may terminate such appointment at any time. Appointed
counsel shall be paid up to the time his employment is terminated. No officer,
employee or agent shall be entitled to reimbursement unless he notifies the
clerk and village attorney in writing within fifteen (15) days after receiving
first notice that a claim, action or investigation is being made or instituted
against him. No officer, employee or agent shall be entitled to reimbursement
if he does not accept the offer of appointed counsel. No officer, employee or
agent shall be entitled to reimbursement if he refuses to cooperate in the
investigation of any matter or claim, including the taking of a polygraph
examination or breathalyzer test. No officer, employee or agent shall be
entitled to reimbursement if he does not cooperate in the defense of the suit,
action or claim.
      5.   The village shall have the right and duty to defend any suit against
any officer, employee or agent, or any former officer, employee or agent, for
breach of duty made against that person by reason of any negligent act, error
or omission, including misfeasance, malfeasance and nonfeasance, or any other
claim, arising out of the scope of duties of said person.
   D.   Indemnification: The village shall indemnify and hold harmless any
officer, employee or agent of the village or any former officer, employee or
agent of the village, from any and all liability, lawsuits or damages any such
person may suffer as a result of claims, demands, costs or judgment against him
for actions or inactions within the scope of his employment or duties, and the
village shall further indemnify him for any damages awarded or monies paid in
compromise or settlement.
No indemnification shall be made where there is adequate insurance, nor where
there is a finding of guilty in a criminal or quasi-criminal case and fines or
penalties are assessed.
No officer, employee or agent of the village, or former officer, employee or
agent of the village, shall be entitled to indemnification unless he notifies
the village clerk and village attorney in writing within fifteen (15) days
after receiving first notice that a claim, action or investigation is being
made or instituted against him. No officer, employee or agent of the village,
or former officer, employee or agent of the village, shall be entitled to
indemnification if he does not accept the offer of appointed counsel. No
officer, employee or agent of the village, or former officer, employee or agent
of the village, shall be entitled to indemnification if he refuses to cooperate
in the investigation of any matter or claim, including the taking of a
polygraph examination or breathalyzer test. No officer, employee or agent of
the village, or former officer, employee or agent of the village, shall be
entitled to indemnification if he does not cooperate in the defense of the
suit, action or claim.
   E.   Application Of Chapter: This chapter shall apply to any claims
heretofore or hereafter made coming within the terms of the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 88-3-1, 3-9-1988)
ARTICLE B. PERSONNEL WORKING STANDARDS, REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Employee Handbook
1-6B-1: EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK:
The Employee Handbook of the Village of Lake Villa, consisting of the Village
of Lake Villa Personnel Policy and the Village of Lake Villa Salary
Classification System and Pay Plan, in its form dated July 15, 2024, is hereby
approved, adopted, and incorporated by reference as if set out herein in its
entirety, effective on said date. A copy of said Employee Handbook is on file
in the Office of the Village Clerk for public reference and inspection. This
Employee Handbook replaces and supersedes any personnel policy manual and/or
pay plan previously approved by the Village. (Ord. 2019-05-02, 5-6-2019; amd.
Ord. 2020-11-05, 11-16-2020; Ord. 2021-06-01, 6-7-2021; Ord. 2023-05-01, 5-1-
2023; Ord. 2023-12-03, 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-07-05, 7-15-2024)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND OFFICIALS OF THE VILLAGE
ARTICLE A. BOARD OF TRUSTEES 1
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Meetings Of The Village Board
1-7A-2: Board Of Trustees Procedures
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-6B of this title for salary provisions; title 2,
  chapter 1 of this Code for functions as Board of Local Improvements.
1-7A-1: MEETINGS OF THE VILLAGE BOARD:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Effective February 1, 2019, the regular meetings of
the Board of Trustees shall be on the first and third Mondays of each month at
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. If any regular meeting date is a legal holiday, the
regular meeting that otherwise would be held on said date may be held on the
day immediately succeeding the regular meeting at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   B.   Place Of Meetings: The meeting place of the said Village Board shall be
at the Village Hall, at 65 Cedar Avenue, Lake Villa, Illinois, 60046, unless
otherwise ordered by the Mayor or by the Village Board.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the Village Board may be called
by the Mayor or by any three (3) Trustees.
   D.   Standing Committees: The Mayor may establish standing and/or ad hoc
committees of the Board of Trustees to discuss and recommend various items to
the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Notice: Members of the Board of Trustees shall be specifically provided
notice of all special meetings of the Board of Trustees.
   F.   Conformance: All meetings, notice of meetings, records, and minutes of
meetings, shall be in conformance with the requirements of the Open Meetings
Act 1  of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 2019-01-03, 1-23-2019)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 120.
1-7A-2: BOARD OF TRUSTEES PROCEDURES:
The following rules shall govern meetings of the Board of Trustees.
   A.   Presiding Officer: The Mayor shall be the presiding officer at all
regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Quorum, Vote Required: A majority of the Corporate Authorities shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but no ordinance shall be passed except
upon the favorable vote of a majority of all members of the Board of Trustees
then holding office, including the Mayor, as provided by statute.
   C.   Robert's Rules Of Order: In all matters not particularly specified in
the above rules, the Board of Trustees shall be governed by Robert's Rules of
Order as revised for parliamentary and legislative practice.
   D.   Temporary Appointment: The Mayor may call upon any other member of the
Board of Trustees to temporarily perform the duties of the temporary Chair or
as Mayor Pro Tem, but such appointment shall not extend beyond the adjournment
of the next duly-called meeting of the Board of Trustees unless such
appointment is thereafter confirmed by the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Mayor Pro Tem: If the Mayor is temporarily absent because of an
incapacity to perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a
vacancy in the office, the Corporate Authorities shall elect one of their
members to act as Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem, during this
absence or disability, shall perform the duties and possess all of the rights
and powers of the Mayor but shall not be entitled to vote both as Mayor or
Mayor Pro Tem and as Trustee.
   F.   Temporary Chairman: In the absence of the Mayor, Acting Mayor, or Mayor
Pro Tem, the Corporate Authorities may elect one of their members to act as a
temporary Chairman. The temporary Chairman shall have only the powers of a
presiding officer and a right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee on any
ordinance, resolution, or motion.
   G.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of procedure of the Board of Trustees,
including but not limited to those established by this article, shall not be
suspended unless by concurrence of two- thirds (2/3) of all of the members of
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2019-01-03, 1-23-2019)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Village Clerk; Duties
1-7B-2: Deputy Clerk
1-7B-1: VILLAGE CLERK 1 ; DUTIES:
The village clerk shall perform such duties pertaining to his or her office as
may be required by the ordinances of said village and the general laws 2  of
the State of Illinois.
   A.   Seal, Papers Kept By: The village clerk shall keep the corporate seal
of the village and all papers belonging to the village.
   B.   Board Records Kept By: The village clerk shall attend all meetings of
the village board and keep a full record of its proceedings in its journal.
   C.   Financial Accounts: The village clerk shall keep full and complete
accounts and exhibits of all financial transactions of the village, to be
entered upon such books as are provided for that purpose, including in such
accounts all claims against the village, as the same may be allowed, and all
orders for the payment of money granted, and on what account. The village clerk
shall preserve in his or her office all bills on which any money may be paid
out by the village, with the name of the payee thereon.
   D.   Licenses: The village clerk shall issue all licenses in accordance with
the ordinances of the village, and shall keep the record in a suitable book of
such licenses, to whom granted, for what purposes, for what length of time, the
location of the place of business for which the license was obtained and the
amount of license fee paid. (Ord. 13, 5-10-1901; amd. Ord. 2013-012-02, 12-11-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-6A-6C of this title for salary provisions.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7 et seq.
1-7B-2: DEPUTY CLERK:
There is hereby created the position of deputy clerk. A deputy clerk shall be
appointed by and be under the direct supervision and control of the village
clerk.
   A.   The deputy clerk shall perform all duties prescribed by the village
clerk pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-95.
   B.   The salary, if any, of the deputy clerk shall be as from time to time
established by the village board.
   C.   The deputy clerk may be terminated at any time by the village clerk or
the village board.
   D.   The deputy clerk need not be a resident of the village. (Ord. 99-1-3,
1-27-1999; amd. Ord. 2013-012-02, 12-11-2013)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Position Created; Appointment
1-7C-2: Term, Removal, Compensation
1-7C-3: Acting Administrator
1-7C-4: Disposal Of Village Surplus Property
1-7C-5: Powers, Duties Generally
1-7C-1: POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the position of Village Administrator. The Village
Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees. The Village Administrator shall be the chief
administrative officer of the Village under the direction of the Corporate
Authorities. The Village Administrator shall be responsible to and report to
the Mayor and Board of Trustees. He shall be responsible to the Corporate
Authorities for the proper administration of all affairs of the Village,
excepting such affairs or matters as the Mayor and/or the Board of Trustees may
from time to time determine to be under their direct control and supervision.
All provisions herein contained shall be subject to the exceptions set forth in
the immediately preceding sentence. (Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-2013)
1-7C-2: TERM, REMOVAL, COMPENSATION:
The Village Administrator may be removed at any time. with or without cause, by
the Mayor, with the concurrence of the Board of Trustees. The fidelity bond of
the Village Administrator shall be in the amount determined by the Village
Board and the premium for same shall be paid by the Village. (Ord. 2013-12-02,
12-11-2013)
1-7C-3: ACTING ADMINISTRATOR:
In the event of the temporary absence or disability of the Village
Administrator, or in the event the position becomes vacant for any reason, the
Mayor may act as administrator or may appoint an acting Village Administrator
who shall serve until the Village Administrator returns to his or her duties or
until a regular appointment of a successor is made. (Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-
2013)
1-7C-4: DISPOSAL OF VILLAGE SURPLUS PROPERTY:
Pursuant to authority of Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-76-4, the Corporate
Authorities of the Village hereby authorize and direct the Village
Administrator to dispose of any items(s) of Village personal property which has
an estimated value of less than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) (as estimated by
the Village Administrator) by auction sale or by private negotiated sale, and
to dispose of any personal item(s) of the Village that have an estimated value
of less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) (as estimated by the Village Administrator)
by private sale as scrap, by donation to a not-for-profit or governmental
organization, by recycling, and/or by any other safe and responsible disposal
of such item(s) of Village personal property that he deems appropriate and in
the best interests of the Village, or by any combination thereof. Such
authority for disposal of the item(s) of Village personal property as aforesaid
shall not require the prior approval of the Village Board, however, the Village
Administrator shall report in writing to the Village Board relative to any such
disposal before or after it occurs. (Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-2013)
1-7C-5: POWERS. DUTIES GENERALLY:
The Village Administrator shall:
   A.   Administer and enforce all policies, directives, laws, and ordinances
adopted by the corporate authorities.
   B.   Act as the Village's chief administrative officer responsible for the
day to day administrative operations of the Village based on the Corporate
Authorities' direction.
   C.   Administer Village personnel rules, policies, and procedures and
recommend the hiring of and/or the removal of employees of the Village, subject
to approval by the Corporate Authorities.
   D.   Prepare annual operation and capital improvement budgets with the
assistance of the Village Treasurer and submit them, together with the Village
Administrator's recommendations relative thereto, to the Corporate Authorities
for their review and approval.
   E.   Prepare the annual appropriations ordinance with the assistance of the
Village Treasurer and be responsible for the administration and implementation
of such appropriations ordinance.
   F.   Prepare the annual tax levy ordinance with the assistance of the
Village Treasurer.
   G.   Prepare long range capital expenditure programs for the Village for
consideration and approval in concept by the Corporate Authorities.
   H.   Recommend to the Corporate Authorities the adoption of such measures as
may be deemed necessary or expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the
community, or for the improvement of the services rendered by the Village when
such measures require action by the Corporate Authorities.
   I.   Furnish the Corporate Authorities with such background support
information as may be requested on any subject to enable them to make decision
(s).
   J.   Attend all meetings of the Corporate Authorities and take part in the
discussion(s) of all matters coming before them.
   K.   Attend meetings of the Village committees, commissions, and boards as
necessary.
   L.   Be responsible for investigating all complaints received in relation to
matters concerning the administration of the Village and the services provided
by the Village, and to direct communications activities to keep the public
informed of Village plans, activities and operations.
   M.   Perform all duties and exercise all powers delegated to him or her by
the Mayor and/or by the Board of Trustees.
   N.   Perform such tasks as required to complete any of the foregoing duties
and perform such other duties and have such other powers as are or may
hereafter be provided by the Lake Villa Village Code and the other ordinances
of this Village and other directions of the Corporate Authorities.
   O.   The Village Administrator shall devote such time to the performance of
his or her duties as shall be established from time to time by the Corporate
Authorities. (Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-2013)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Powers And Duties Generally
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-6A-6D of this title for salary provisions.
1-7D-1: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The village treasurer shall receive and safely keep all monies belonging to the
said village and all general and special taxes and assessments that may be
collected and paid to him, and pay the same out upon the order of the village
board signed by the mayor and attested by the village clerk, and perform such
further duties as may be required by him or her by the ordinances of said
village and the general laws of the State of Illinois.
   A.   The treasurer shall prepare for the mayor and board of trustees, as
often as required, a full and detailed report of all receipts and expenditures
of the village, as shown by the books of the treasurer's office, up to the time
of the report. The treasurer shall each year prepare and file with the clerk a
full and detailed report of all receipts and expenditures of all accounts of
the office during the preceding fiscal year. The report shall reflect the state
of the treasury at the close of the fiscal year. The clerk shall keep the
report on file in his or her office for the inspection of the general public.
   B.   The approval of the mayor and board of trustees of the report of
receipts and expenditures described in subsection A of this section at a
regular or special meeting of the board of trustees shall constitute approval
of each expenditure included on the report, provided, however, that the board
of trustees may, in its sole discretion, except specific expenditures from such
approval, in which case such expenditures shall not be made.
   C.   In the event that the regularly scheduled meeting of the board of
trustees is canceled, the treasurer may submit the report of receipts and
expenditures to the mayor and individual members of the board of trustees for
comment. The treasurer shall be authorized to make the expenditures included on
such report provided that:
      1.   At least seven (7) days have passed since the date the report was
submitted to the board of trustees;
      2.   No expenditure shall be made that has been specifically excepted
from approval by any one or more members of the board of trustees.
All expenditures made pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the
subsequent ratification at the next meeting of the board of trustees. Any
expenditure that is specifically excepted from approval under this subsection
shall be held for consideration until the next meeting of the board of
trustees. (Ord. 2015-04-03, 4-8-2015)
ARTICLE E. VILLAGE COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Office Created
1-7E-2: Duties
1-7E-3: Appointment
1-7E-4: Salary
1-7E-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of village collector is hereby created. (Ord. 97-1-2, 1-18-1997;
amd. Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-2013)
1-7E-2: DUTIES:
The village collector shall:
   A.   Be responsible for the billing and collection of funds relating to the
provision of sewer and water services by the village.
   B.   Preserve all warrants returned to the village collector and shall keep
books and accounts in the manner prescribed by the mayor and board of trustees.
All of the village collector's warrants, books, and vouchers, and all papers
pertaining to the office, may be examined at any time by the mayor, village
clerk, village treasurer, or any member of the board of trustees. Weekly, and
more often if required by the mayor and board of trustees, the village
collector shall pay over to the village treasurer all money collected by the
village collector from any source, taking the village treasurer's receipt in
duplicate and filing one of the receipts immediately with the village clerk. At
that time, or on demand, the village clerk shall give the village collector a
copy of any receipt so filed.
   C.   Perform such other duties as are prescribed by the mayor and board of
trustees from time to time.
   D.   Coordinate with and be subordinate to the village treasurer. (Ord. 97-
1-2, 1-18-1997; amd. Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-2013)
1-7E-3: APPOINTMENT:
The village collector shall be appointed by the mayor and board of trustees. If
so desired by the mayor and board of trustees, the person who is the village
clerk may also hold the office of village collector. (Ord. 97-1-2, 1-18-1997;
amd. Ord. 2013-12-02, 12-11-2013)
1-7E-4: SALARY:
The salary of the village collector shall be established from time to time by
the mayor and board of trustees. (Ord. 97-1-2, 1-18-1997; amd. Ord. 2013-12-02,
12-11-2013)
CHAPTER 8
PROFESSIONAL FEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Review
1-8-3: Reimbursement
1-8-4: Administration Of Escrow
1-8-5: Estimate
1-8-6: Disbursements
1-8-7: Replenishments
1-8-8: Final Disbursement
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: All individuals, partnerships, corporations, associations or any other
legal entities.
PROFESSIONAL FEES: Fees incurred by the village for professional consultation
by engineers, land planners, attorneys and other professionals retained by the
village to review, in whole or in part, village matters. (Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-
1988)
1-8-2: REVIEW:
Whenever any person is required by an ordinance of the village, or state or
federal law, to submit any plans, specifications or other documents to the
village to be reviewed or to have any other matter or thing reviewed or
inspected by the village, and in connection therewith it shall be necessary for
the village to retain the professional services of an engineer, planning
consultant, attorney, and/or other professional, the person who is so required
shall be fully responsible for all fees charged by said professionals in
reviewing or inspecting the matter.
For the purposes of this chapter, the requirement to pay for professional fees
incurred by the village shall apply to, but not be limited to, applications for
rezoning, applications for variations, applications for planned unit
developments, applications for subdivision, applications for special use,
applications for annexations and applications for building permits. Neither
preliminary approval nor final approval shall be given for any subdivision,
zoning change amendment, variation, planned unit development, special use,
annexation or building permit unless and until the Village Administrator
certifies that all professional fees incurred by the village have been paid in
full. (Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-8-3: REIMBURSEMENT:
An escrow deposit of funds in an amount as determined by the Village
Administrator, or his designee, is required to be provided to the Village by
applicants prior to the village incurring any costs or fees for professional
services, and prior to the Village providing any approvals in those instances
in which the village requires that the applicant reimburse the village for any
fees or costs incurred by the village in connection with the applicant's
request or matter. (Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-8-4: ADMINISTRATION OF ESCROW:
The Village Administrator shall be responsible for the administration of escrow
of funds in all those instances in which this code requires an applicant or
other individual to reimburse the village for any professional fees it may
incur in processing that applicant's request or matter. This chapter shall
apply to all instances in which this code requires that an applicant or other
individual reimburse the village for its professional expenses incurred or to
be incurred, and it shall apply to those village code provisions presently in
effect or hereafter adopted which require an applicant or other individual to
reimburse the village for its professional fees incurred or to be incurred.
(Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-8-5: ESTIMATE:
The Village Administrator shall, upon receipt of a matter which may or will
require professional services to be rendered to the village, obtain an estimate
of the amount of the cost of expected services based on the nature of the
matter, its complexity, the relative need for professional advice, and the
expected duration of processing of the matter. The Village Administrator shall
so notify the individual applicant in writing with this estimate of the
necessary funds to defray all professional costs the village might incur in the
course of reviewing the matter submitted by the applicant or other individual.
The Village Administrator shall also include in this communication a request
that the individual applicant deposit with the village within fourteen (14)
days said sum to be held in escrow. The application or matter shall not
thereafter be reviewed or acted upon by the village unless and until said sum
is received by the Village Administrator. Upon receipt of said sum, the Village
Administrator shall deposit the same in a separate escrow account.
Simultaneously with the sending of notice to the applicant or other individual,
the Village Administrator shall also notify the professionals whom the village
expects to utilize to review the matter and request that those professionals
bill no less frequently than monthly on said matter, and otherwise keep the
village apprized of time and cost expended in reviewing this matter. (Ord. 88-
5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-8-6: DISBURSEMENTS:
The escrow funds as deposited shall be utilized to pay for professional review
and any and all disbursements therefrom shall be approved by the Village
Administrator or the village board, and a copy of each disbursement shall be
transmitted by the Village Administrator to the individual applicant who has
deposited the funds. (Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-8-7: REPLENISHMENTS:
The Village Administrator shall periodically review the escrow funds on deposit
to ensure that adequate funds are available to satisfy all professional
statements relating to said matter. In the event that the Village Administrator
determines that sufficient funds are not available, the Village Administrator
shall so notify the applicant or other individual and request a further amount
to defray the anticipated additional costs in accordance with the standards set
forth in section 1-8-5 of this chapter. The professionals previously engaged
shall be advised not to do any further work until said sum has been received,
and the individual applicant shall be given fourteen (14) days to deposit said
additional funds. In the event that said funds are not deposited, the village
shall take no further action on the matter and shall so advise the applicant or
other individual. (Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-8-8: FINAL DISBURSEMENT:
At the conclusion of the matter and after all outstanding professional fees
incurred by the village in review of the matter have been satisfied in full,
the Village Administrator shall remit the balance, if any, to the depositor.
(Ord. 88-5-2, 4-28-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICAL CONDUCT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-9-3: Gift Ban
1-9-4: Exceptions
1-9-5: Disposition Of Gifts
1-9-6: Village Policy Against Retaliation Against Whistleblowers And Related
Procedures
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the minimum work
time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Lake Villa, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Lake Villa.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 2004-
05-02, 5-26-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-9-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Lake Villa in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment,
or 3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-05-02, 5-
26-2004)
1-9-3: GIFT BAN:
Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or employee, and no spouse of
or immediate family member living with any officer or employee (collectively
referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit or accept any
gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is otherwise
prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer
or make a gift that violates this section. (Ord. 2004-05-02, 5-26-2004)
1-9-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Section 1-9-3 of this chapter is not applicable to the following:
   A.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
   B.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
   C.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or
2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
   D.   Educational materials and missions.
   E.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
   F.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the individual
as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt,
great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather,
grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother,
stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and
including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's
spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
   G.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
   H.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means. Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
   I.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of this
chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
   J.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
   K.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any calendar
year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other. (Ord. 2004-05-02, 5-26-2004)
1-9-5: DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member living
with the officer or employee, does not violate this chapter if the recipient
promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited source to
its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an appropriate
charity that is exempt from income taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the
internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended, renumbered, or
succeeded. (Ord. 2004-05-02, 5-26-2004)
1-9-6: VILLAGE POLICY AGAINST RETALIATION AGAINST WHISTLEBLOWERS AND RELATED
PROCEDURES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and/or
phrases shall have the following meanings:
 
AUDITING OFFICIAL:                    Shall have the meaning set forth in 50
                                      ILCS 105/4.1(i).
EMPLOYEE:                             Shall have the meaning set forth in 50
                                      ILCS 105/4.1(i)
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION:         Shall have the meaning set forth in 50
                                      ILCS 105/4.1(i).
RETALIATE, RETALIATION or RETALIATORY Shall have the meaning as set forth in 50
ACTION:                               ILCS 105/4.1.
                                      Shall mean any village employee or
                                      contractor of the village who:
                                      A. Reports an alleged improper
                                      governmental action;
                                      B. Cooperates with an investigation by an
WHISTLEBLOWER:                        auditing official related to a report of
                                      alleged improper governmental action;
                                      and/or
                                      C. Testifies in a proceeding or
                                      prosecution arising out of an alleged
                                      improper governmental action.
 
   B.   Retaliation Against Whistleblower Prohibited: No agent or
representative of the village, or another employee, shall retaliate against any
village employee or contractor of the village who is or may be a whistleblower
as defined in this section.
   C.   Statutory Remedies Available To A Whistleblower: The remedies which are
available to village employees or to contractors of the village subjected to
adverse actions for reporting alleged improper governmental action shall
include those remedies provided in 50 ILCS 105/4.1(f).
   D.   Statutory Procedure For Invoking Whistleblower Protections: To invoke
the protections of 50 ILCS 105/4.1, a village employee and/or any contractor of
the village shall make a written report of alleged improper governmental action
to the appropriate auditing official. A village employee or contractor of the
village who believes he or she has been retaliated against in violation of 50
ILCS 105/4.1 must submit a written report relative thereto to the auditing
official within sixty (60) days of gaining knowledge of the retaliatory action.
If the auditing official is the individual allegedly committing the improper
governmental action, the employee or contractor may report the alleged improper
governmental action in writing to an alternative auditing official of the
village or to any State's Attorney.
   E.   Auditing Officials Designated: The village hereby designates the
following three (3) persons as alternative auditing officials pursuant to 50
ILCS 105/4.1: (1) the Village Administrator; (2) the Village Attorney; or (3)
the Village Treasurer. A village employee or contractor of the village wishing
to make a written report relative to an alleged improper governmental action
shall provide such written report to such alternate auditing official as he or
she believes to be more appropriate, given the nature of his or her complaint.
   F.   Responsibilities Of Auditing Official(s): The responsibilities of the
village's auditing official(s) shall include, but shall not be limited to the
following:
      1.   The auditing officials selected by the village shall establish
written processes and procedures for managing complaints of alleged improper
governmental action which are submitted pursuant to 50 ILCS 105/4.1.
      2.   Each auditing official shall investigate and dispose of reports of
alleged improper governmental action referred to him or her in accordance with
the procedures established herein.
      3.   If an auditing official of the village concludes that an alleged
improper governmental action has taken place or concludes that the village or
any department, employee or officer thereof has or have hindered a village
auditing official's investigation into the report, the auditing official shall
notify in writing the Mayor and any other individual or entity the auditing
official deems necessary in the circumstances.
      4.   A village auditing official may transfer a report of alleged
improper governmental action to another auditing official of the village for
investigation if an auditing official deems it appropriate, or to the
appropriate State's Attorney.
      5.   All auditing officials of the village shall take reasonable measures
to protect employees subjected to adverse action for reporting alleged improper
governmental action who reasonably believe they may be subject to retaliation
or bodily harm for reporting improper governmental action.
   G.   Confidentiality Of Whistleblower Identity: To the extent permitted by
law, the identity of a village employee or contractor of the village reporting
information about an alleged improper governmental action shall be kept
confidential unless the village employee or contractor of the village waives
confidentiality in writing.
   H.   A Copy Or Summary Of The Provisions To Be Provided To All Employees:
Every employee of the village shall receive a written summary or a complete
copy of 50 ILCS 105/4.1 as it may be amended from time to time upon
commencement of his or her employment with the village and at least once during
each year of their respective employment. At the same time, each village
employee shall also receive a copy of this article which establishes written
procedures for reporting alleged improper governmental actions to the
appropriate auditing official and/or the appropriate State's Attorney. (Ord.
2021-08-02, 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 10
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Public Records
1-10-2: Freedom Of Information Act Officer
1-10-3: Procedure For Filing An FOIA Request With The Village
1-10-4: Inspection Of Records; Time And Place For Inspection
1-10-5: Procedure For Fulfilling FOIA Requests
1-10-6: Time Frame For Production Of Records; Extension Of Time To Produce
Records
1-10-7: Fees; Requests For Waiver Of Fees
1-10-8: Exempt And Nonexempt Records
1-10-9: Denial Of Records; Request For Review By Public Access Counselor
("PAC")
1-10-10: Denial Of Records; Exemption(s)
1-10-11: Appeal To Denial Of Request
1-10-12: Binding Opinion
1-10-1: PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   The village recognizes that pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/1, the Illinois freedom of information act 1  ("FOIA") provides that it is
a primary obligation of public bodies to provide records.
   B.   The village also recognizes that pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/3.3 of the FOIA, public bodies are not required to interpret or
advise requesters as to the meaning or significance of public records.
   C.   The village also recognizes that pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/1 of the FOIA, public bodies are not obligated to create a public
record which was not already created or prepared by the public body.
   D.   Pursuant to the authority contained in the FOIA, the village hereby
promulgates as the following rules and regulations, but to the extent that said
rules and regulations might otherwise be interpreted as inconsistent with the
FOIA, the FOIA shall govern in all respects. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140.
1-10-2: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER 1 :
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of "freedom of
information act officer" ("FOIA officer"). There may be one or more FOIA
officer(s) designated. The corporate authorities of the village will designate
one or more officials or employees of the village to act as a freedom of
information officer, and the village shall disclose the identity of its FOIA
officer(s) on either its website or by means of a list of such officers
available for public access. The list of FOIA officer(s) shall also be provided
to the state's public access counselor ("PAC").
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The FOIA officer(s), or his or her
designee, shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   Training: Initially, within six (6) months after January 1, 2010,
all FOIA officers shall successfully complete, via electronic means, a training
course administered by the Illinois public access counselor (the "PAC"). All
FOIA officer(s) shall thereafter complete additional training on an annual
basis. New FOIA officers must complete the curriculum within thirty (30) days
after their appointment to the position.
      2.   Responsibilities: The FOIA officer shall be responsible for:
         a.   Receiving FOIA requests;
         b.   Ensuring timely responses to FOIA requests;
         c.   Issuing FOIA responses;
         d.   Developing a list of documents or categories of records that the
village will immediately disclose upon request;
         e.   Meeting with requesters to inspect records in his or her
presence.
      3.   FOIA Request Intake Activities: Upon receiving an FOIA request, the
FOIA officer shall do the following:
         a.   Note the date the village received the written request;
         b.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
         c.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
         d.   Create a file for the retention of each original request, a copy
of the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a
copy of other related communications.
      4.   Extension Of Time: The FOIA officer or his or her designee is
authorized to issue notices of extension of time for production of records as
well as notices of denial for production of records.
   C.   Posting Of FOIA Officer And Related Information 2 : In compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois FOIA, the village shall prominently display at
its administrative office at the village hall, make available for inspection
and copying, and send through the mail, if requested, any or all of the
following:
      1.   A brief description of itself, including a short summary of its
purpose, a block diagram giving its functional subdivisions, the total amount
of its operating budget, the number and location of all of its separate
offices, the approximate number of full and part time employees, and the
identification and membership of any board, commission, committee, or council
which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the operation of the public
body, or which exercises control over its policies or procedures, or to which
the public body is required to report and be answerable for its operations; and
      2.   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating the freedom of
information officer or officers, the address where requests for public records
should be directed, and any fees allowable under the FOIA.
      3.   The village shall also post this information on any website the
village maintains. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 140/3.5.
2 1. 5 ILCS 140/4.
1-10-3: PROCEDURE FOR FILING AN FOIA REQUEST WITH THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Request Procedure: Pursuant to the freedom of information act 1
("FOIA"), requests for inspection of or copies of records shall be made in
writing and directed to the village's FOIA officer, but no standard form for
such request is required. Requests may be made by mail, electronic mail,
facsimile request, or personal delivery of a written request. If a requester
wishes, the FOIA officer will provide the requester with a "freedom of
information act request form" for his or her use. The FOIA officer, at his or
her discretion, may also consider verbal FOIA requests.
   B.   Questions; Appointment: Questions regarding access to village records
shall be directed to the FOIA officer, or his or her designee. In consideration
of the type, size, and complexity of the document(s) requested, it may be
necessary for a requester to make an appointment with the FOIA officer to
answer questions or review documents.
   C.   Recurrent Requesters:
      1.   Pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/2(g) of the FOIA, a
"recurrent requester" is defined as one who "in the twelve (12) months
preceding the request, has submitted to the same public body: a) a minimum of
fifty (50) requests for records, b) a minimum of fifteen (15) requests for
records within a thirty (30) day period, or c) a minimum of seven (7) requests
for records within a seven (7) day period", excepting requests made by news
media, a nonprofit, scientific, or academic organizations "when the principal
purpose of the requests is: a) to access and disseminate information concerning
news and current or passing events, b) for articles of opinion or features of
interest to the public, or c) for the purpose of academic, scientific, or
public research or education".
      2.   Within five (5) business days after receipt of a request from a
"recurrent requester", the village shall notify the requester in writing: a)
that the village is treating the request as a request under 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/2(g) ("recurrent requester") of the FOIA, b) the reason(s) the
request is being treated in this way, and c) that the village will send its
initial response to the request within twenty one (21) days of receipt of the
request.
      3.   Within twenty one (21) business days after receipt of such a
request, the village shall again respond to the requester, which response shall
include an estimate of time required to fulfill the request; an estimate of the
fees to be charged, and other estimated costs, and, if applicable, notification
that the requester may be required to pay the fees and charges in full before
the requested records are copied; and/or notification that the request is
unduly burdensome and extend an opportunity to the requester to reduce the
request to a manageable proportion; or provide the requested records.
      4.   If the requested records were not provided to the requester within
the aforesaid twenty one (21) business day period, unless the records are
exempt from disclosure, the requested records shall be sent to the recurrent
requester within a reasonable period thereafter, considering the size and
complexity of the request. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 140.
1-10-4: INSPECTION OF RECORDS; TIME AND PLACE FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection; Copies: The FOIA officer or his or her designee shall
obtain the file or files requested and allow the requester to inspect them in
his or her presence. Should the requester request copies of all or a portion of
the information, the requester must indicate in writing, or on the FOIA request
form, what copies are desired, and the FOIA officer or his or her designee will
make the requested copies and provide them to the requester within the time
frame prescribed by the FOIA, provided, however, that such information is not
determined to be exempt.
   B.   Exempt Information: For any request made to inspect and/or photocopy a
public record containing information that is both exempt from disclosure and
not exempt from disclosure, the village shall make only the nonexempt
information available for inspection and/or photocopying by redacting the
exempt information from the document.
   C.   Hours: Public records may only be inspected at the village hall during
the hours when it is regularly open.
   D.   Business Days: Monday through Friday, both inclusive, except holidays,
as defined or fixed by any statute of the state are hereby declared to be
"business days".
   E.   Search, Location And Reproduction Of Records: Only village personnel
shall be permitted to search village files to locate records requested, and
only village personnel shall be permitted to operate village equipment to
reproduce the requested copies. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
1-10-5: PROCEDURE FOR FULFILLING FOIA REQUESTS:
Upon receiving an FOIA request, the FOIA officer, or his or her designee,
shall:
   A.   Note the date the village received the written request;
   B.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and make a
notation of that date on the written request (5 business days; for requests for
commercial purposes or for requests made by "recurrent requesters" as defined
herein, 5 business days for an initial response, with a follow up response
within 21 days after receipt of the request, and a final response within a
reasonable period thereafter, considering the size and complexity of the
request);
   C.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied;
   D.   Meet with requesters, if necessary, to inspect records in his or her
presence;
   E.   Create a file for the retention of each original request, a copy of the
response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy of
other related communications;
   F.   Assemble and duplicate the requested records, except for records which
are exempt, and redact any records which may be partially exempt, and/or
coordinate retrieval of the requested records with the facility storing the
records for the village;
   G.   Keep, and/or request from the designated personnel, and maintain a
record of those hours over eight (8) hours which were spent by personnel in
retrieving a requested record; and
   H.   Notify the requester in writing of the status of production of the
requested records, i.e., that such records are ready and available for the
requester, that production of the records is denied in whole or in part and the
reasons therefor, and/or the amount of any fees and/or costs associated with
the request, where applicable, prior to copying and/or production of such
requested records, and whether such fees and/or costs must be paid by the
requester prior to the village's copying of such records. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-
9-2011)
1-10-6: TIME FRAME FOR PRODUCTION OF RECORDS; EXTENSION OF TIME TO PRODUCE
RECORDS:
   A.   Pursuant to the FOIA, the village is generally required to produce the
requested records within five (5) business days of receipt of the request,
excluding the day the request was received by the village, except where the
request is made for commercial purposes, and except where the request is made
by a "recurrent requester" as provided in this chapter.
   B.   "Commercial enterprise" as used in the Illinois freedom of information
act (FOIA) shall include both profit and not for profit ventures, organizations
and entities. The village may inquire as to whether the records requested are
sought to advance a commercial purpose, and if a requester attempts to procure
a public record for a commercial purpose without disclosing that the use is for
a commercial purpose, that constitutes a violation of the FOIA 1 . The
village's response to such commercial requests shall be as follows:
      1.   Within twenty one (21) business days after receipt of such a
commercial request, the village shall respond in writing to the requester,
which response shall include an estimate of time required to fulfill the
request; an estimate of the fees to be charged, and other associated costs as
provided in section 1-10-7 of this chapter, and, if applicable, notification
that the requester may be required to pay the fees and charges in full before
the requested records are copied; and/or notification that the request is
unduly burdensome, extending an opportunity to the requester to reduce the
request to a manageable proportion; or provide the requested records.
      2.   If the requested records were not provided to the commercial
requester within the aforesaid twenty one (21) business day period, unless the
records are exempt from disclosure, the requested records shall be sent to the
commercial requester within a reasonable period thereafter, considering the
size and complexity of the request.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a request is delivered on a day which
is not a business day, or after the close of business, the request shall be
deemed made on the first business day subsequent thereto.
   D.   If, upon review of the request, the FOIA officer, or his or her
designee, finds that he or she is not able to compile all of the necessary
information immediately, another time may be arranged within the prescribed
time frame for the requester to return to receive a response to the request.
   E.   The FOIA officer, or his or her designee, may extend the time limit for
responding to a request by an additional five (5) business days where:
      1.   The requested record is in a place other than the office in charge
of the record.
      2.   The request requires an extensive search.
      3.   The records have not been found in time and additional efforts are
necessary to retrieve them.
      4.   The record requires examination to determine if it should be exempt
from viewing.
      5.   Compliance with the request would cause undue burden or interfere
with the operations of the village. (Repeated requests for the same information
by the same person shall be deemed unduly burdensome under this provision.)
   F.   If it is necessary to extend the time limit for production of records,
the requester will be notified in writing by the FOIA officer or his or her
designee within five (5) business days of receipt of the request and such
notice will give the reason for the extension. Failure to respond to the
request within five (5) business days is considered a denial of the request.
(Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/3.1.
1-10-7: FEES; REQUESTS FOR WAIVER OF FEES:
   A.   Each requester is required to pay the village the appropriate fees for
copies of village records as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code and will receive a receipt for same. In the case of
commercial requests, a requester shall also be required to pay to the village
other charges as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. No records will be distributed to the requester
unless and until all charges associated with the request are paid to the
village in full. The village will charge the following fees as set forth in the
FOIA:
      1.   Records In Electronic Format: If the village maintains the
respective document(s) in electronic format, such document(s) must be furnished
in the electronic format if the requester so requests. The village is not
required to produce records kept in electronic format in an alternate manner.
The fee charged for producing records in an electronic format shall be the
actual cost incurred by the village for purchasing the recording medium.
      2.   Requests For Commercial Purposes: With respect to requests for
commercial purposes, in addition to the fees set forth in this section, such
requesters shall also be required to pay the following:
         a.   The requester shall be required to pay to the village an hourly
fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each hour after the first eight (8) hours spent
by personnel in searching for or retrieving a requested record.
         b.   When the public records are maintained by a third party storage
company under contract with the Village, the requester shall be required to pay
to the Village those cost(s) as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
         c.   With respect to those charges provided for in subsections A2a and
A2b of this section, the village shall provide to the requester an accounting
of all fees, costs, and personnel hours expended in connection with the
request.
   B.   All payments for production of records shall be made in the form of
cash or certified or cashier's check made payable to the village.
   C.   Requests to waive any fee(s) for reproduction of document(s) must be
made in writing to an FOIA officer of the village and must state how the
information requested "primarily benefits the general public". The FOIA officer
shall be authorized to determine whether such request for a waiver shall be
honored.
   D.   Each copy, other than electronic media, may be certified if requested
and paid for by the requester. Documents may be furnished without charge if the
requester is unable to pay for them, and the purpose of such request is
determined by the FOIA officer to be in the public interest. (Ord. 2011-11-01,
11-9-2011; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-10-8: EXEMPT AND NONEXEMPT RECORDS:
   A.   The FOIA officer, or his or her designee, may not give out information
which is in a file marked by an asterisk (*) in the catalog of existing files.
This information has been predetermined to be exempt from disclosure under the
Illinois freedom of information act.
   B.   Any record marked with a double asterisk (**) has been determined to be
partially exempt. One or more authorized officers or employees of the village
shall review the file and will provide any nonexempt information to requester.
Records having both exempt and nonexempt material shall be provided to the
requester in a redacted format revealing only the nonexempt material.
   C.   In addition, while not so marked, information may not be disclosed if
it falls within one or more of the following exempt categories:
      1.   Disclosure of the requested information is specifically prohibited
by federal or state law or rules and regulations implementing federal or state
law 1 .
      2.   The information requested is "private information" unless disclosure
is required by another provision of the FOI act, a state or federal law, or a
court order 2 .
      3.   The information requested is a file(s), document(s), and/or other
data or database(s) maintained by one or more law enforcement agencies and
specifically designed to provide information to one or more law enforcement
agencies regarding the physical or mental status of one or more individual
subjects 3  (P.A. 96-0558).
      4.   The document(s) requested relates to personal information contained
within public records, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, unless the disclosure is consented to
in writing by the individual subjects of the information. "Unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy" means the disclosure of information that is highly
personal or objectionable to a reasonable person and in which the subject's
right to privacy outweighs any legitimate public interest in obtaining the
information. The disclosure of information that bears on the public duties of
public employees and officials shall not be considered an invasion of personal
privacy 4 .
      5.   The document(s) requested are in the possession of the public body
and were created in the course of administrative enforcement proceedings, and
any law enforcement or correctional agency for law enforcement purposes, and
that disclosure would do one or more of the following 5 :
         a.   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated
law enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement or correctional
agency that is the recipient of the request;
         b.   Interfere with active administrative enforcement proceedings
conducted by the public body that is the recipient of the request;
         c.   Create a substantial likelihood that a person will be deprived of
a fair trial or an impartial hearing;
         d.   Unavoidably disclose the identity of a confidential source,
confidential information furnished only by the confidential source, or persons
who file complaints with or provide information to administrative,
investigative, law enforcement, or penal agencies; except that the identities
of witnesses to traffic accidents, traffic accident reports, and rescue reports
shall be provided by agencies of local government except when disclosure would
interfere with an active criminal investigation conducted by the agency that is
the recipient of the request;
         e.   Disclose unique or specialized investigative techniques other
than those generally used and known or disclose internal documents of
correctional agencies related to detection, observation or investigation of
incidents of crime or misconduct, and disclosure would result in demonstrable
harm to the agency or public body that is the recipient of the request;
         f.   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel
or any other person; or
         g.   Obstruct an ongoing criminal investigation by the agency that is
the recipient of the request.
      6.   The document(s) requested are records that relate to or affect the
security of correctional institutions and detention facilities 6 .
      7.   The document(s) requested are preliminary drafts, notes,
recommendation, memoranda and other records in which opinions are expressed, or
policies or actions are formulated, except that a specific record or relevant
portion of a record shall not be exempt when the record is publicly cited and
identified by the head of the public body 7 .
      8.   The document(s) requested would disclose trade secrets and
commercial or financial information obtained from a person or business where
the trade secrets or commercial or financial information are furnished under a
claim that they are proprietary, privileged or confidential, and that
disclosure of the trade secrets or commercial or financial information would
cause competitive harm to the person or business, and the claim directly
applies to the records requested, including all trade secrets and commercial or
financial information obtained by a public body, including a public pension
fund, from a private equity fund or a privately held company within the
investment portfolio of a private equity fund as a result of either investing
or evaluating a potential investment of public funds in a private equity fund.
This exemption does not apply to the aggregate financial performance
information of a private equity fund, nor to the identity of the fund's
managers or general partners. This exemption does not apply to the identity of
a privately held company within the investment portfolio of a private equity
fund, unless the disclosure of the identity of a privately held company may
cause competitive harm. Nothing contained in this exemption is to be construed
to prevent a person or business from consenting to disclosure 8 .
      9.   The document(s) requested constitute proposals or bids for a
contract, grant or agreement, including information which if it were disclosed
would frustrate procurement or give an advantage to any person proposing to
enter into a contract or agreement with the body, until an award or final
selection is made. Information prepared by or for the body in preparation of a
bid solicitation is exempt until an award or final selection is made 9 .
      10.   The document(s) requested are valuable formulas, computer
geographic systems, designs, drawings or research data obtained or produced by
any public body when disclosure could reasonably be expected to produce private
gain or public loss. The exemption for "computer geographic systems" does not
extend to requests made by news media as defined in section 2 of the FOIA when
the requested information is not otherwise exempt and the only purpose of the
request is to access and disseminate information regarding the health, safety,
welfare, or legal rights of the general public 10 .
      11.   The document(s) requested are architects' plans, engineers'
technical submissions, and other construction related technical documents for
projects not constructed or developed in whole or in part with public funds and
the same for projects constructed or developed with public funds, including,
but not limited to, power generating and distribution stations and other
transmission and distribution facilities, water treatment facilities, airport
facilities, sports stadiums, convention centers, and all government owned,
operated, or occupied buildings, but only to the extent that disclosure would
compromise security 11 .
      12.   The document(s) requested are minutes of meetings of public bodies
closed to the public as provided in the open meetings act until the public body
makes the minutes available to the public under section 2.06 of the open
meetings act 12 .
      13.   The document(s) requested constitute or reflect communications
between a public body and an attorney or auditor representing the public body
that would not be subject to discovery in litigation, and materials prepared or
compiled by or for a public body in anticipation of a criminal, civil or
administrative proceeding upon the request of an attorney advising the public
body, and materials prepared or compiled with respect to internal audits of
public bodies 13 .
      14.   The document(s) requested are records relating to a public body's
adjudication of employee grievances or disciplinary cases, but this exemption
does not extend to the final outcome of cases in which discipline is imposed 14
.
      15.   The document(s) requested relate to administrative or technical
information associated with automated data processing operations, including,
but not limited to, software, operating protocols, computer program abstracts,
file layouts, source listings, object modules, load modules, user guides,
documentation pertaining to all logical and physical design of computerized
systems, employee manuals, and any other information that, if disclosed, would
jeopardize the security of the system or its data or the security of materials
under this exemption 15 .
      16.   The document(s) requested relate to records relating to collective
negotiating matters between public bodies and their employees or
representatives, but any final contract or agreement is subject to inspection
and copying 16 .
      17.   The document(s) requested relate to test questions, scoring keys,
and other examination data used to determine the qualifications of an applicant
for a license or employment 17 .
      18.   The document(s) requested relate to records, documents and
information relating to real estate purchase negotiations until those
negotiations have been completed or otherwise terminated. With regard to a
parcel involved in a pending or actually and reasonably contemplated eminent
domain proceeding under the eminent domain act, records, documents and
information relating to that parcel are exempt except as may be allowed under
discovery rules adopted by the Illinois supreme court. The records, documents
and information relating to a real estate sale are exempt until a sale is
consummated 18 .
      19.   The document(s) requested relate to any and all proprietary
information and records related to the operation of an intergovernmental risk
management association or self-insurance pool or jointly self-administered
health and accident cooperative or pool, including any claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications 19 .
      20.   The document(s) requested relate to information contained in or
related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf
of, or for the use of, a public body responsible for the regulation or
supervision of financial institutions or insurance companies, unless disclosure
is otherwise required by state law 20 .
      21.   The document(s) requested relate to information that would disclose
or might lead to the disclosure of secret or confidential information, codes,
algorithms, programs, or private keys intended to be used to create electronic
or digital signatures under the electronic commerce security act 21 .
      22.   The document(s) requested relate to vulnerability assessments,
security measures, and response policies or plans that are designed to
identify, prevent, or respond to potential attacks upon a community's
population or systems, facilities, or installations, the destruction or
contamination of which would constitute a clear and present danger to the
health or safety of the community, but only to the extent that disclosure could
reasonably be expected to jeopardize the effectiveness of the measures or the
safety of the personnel who implement them or the public. Information under
this exemption may include such things as details pertaining to the
mobilization or deployment of personnel or equipment, to the operation of
communication systems or protocols, or to tactical operations 22 .
      23.   The document(s) requested relate to maps and other records
regarding the location or security of generation, transmission, distribution,
storage, gathering, treatment, or switching facilities owned by a utility, by a
power generator, or by the Illinois power agency 23 .
      24.   The document(s) requested relate to information contained in or
related to proposals, bids, or negotiations related to electric power
procurement under section 1-75 of the Illinois power agency act and section 16-
111.5 of the public utilities act that is determined to be confidential and
proprietary by the Illinois power agency or by the Illinois commerce commission
24 .
      25.   The document(s) requested relate to the names, addresses, or other
personal information of persons who are minors and are also participants and
registrants in programs of park districts, forest preserve districts,
conservation districts, recreation agencies, and special recreation
associations 25  (P.A. 97-0385).
      26.   The document(s) requested relate to the names, addresses, or other
personal information of participants and registrants in programs of park
districts, forest preserve districts, conservation districts, recreation
agencies, and special recreation associations where such programs are targeted
primarily to minors 26  (P.A. 97-0385).
      27.   The document(s) requested relate to one or more of the following
statutory exemptions to the extent provided for by such specific statute(s) 27
:
         a.   Firm performance evaluations under section 55 of the
architectural, engineering, and land surveying qualifications based selection
act;
         b.   Information contained in a local emergency energy plan submitted
to a municipality in accordance with a local emergency energy plan ordinance
that is adopted under section 11-21.5-5 of the Illinois municipal code;
         c.   Information and data concerning the distribution of surcharge
monies collected and remitted by wireless carriers under the wireless emergency
telephone safety act;
         d.   Law enforcement officer identification information or driver
identification information compiled by a law enforcement agency or the
department of transportation under section 11-212 of the Illinois vehicle code;
         e.   Records and information provided to a residential healthcare
facility resident sexual assault and death review team or the executive council
under the abuse prevention review team act;
         f.   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under section
4 of the Illinois health and hazardous substances registry act;
         g.   Security portions of system safety program plans, investigation
reports, surveys, schedules, lists, data, or information compiled, collected,
or prepared by or for the regional transportation authority under section 2.11
of the regional transportation authority act or the St. Clair County transit
district under the bi-state transit safety act;
         h.   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the personnel
records review act;
         i.   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the Illinois
school student records act;
         j.   Information the disclosure of which is restricted under section
5-108 of the public utilities act;
         k.   Names and information of people who have applied for or received
firearm owner's identification ("FOID") cards under the firearm owner's
identification card act (P.A. 097-0080);
         l.   Personally identifiable information which is exempted from
disclosure under subsection (g) of section 19.1 of the Illinois toll highway
act (P.A. 97-0342). (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
 
Notes
1  1. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(a).
2  2. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(b).
3  3. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(b-5).
4  4. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(c).
5  5. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(d).
6  1. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(e).
7  2. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(f).
8  1. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(g).
9  2. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(h).
10 3. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(i).
11 4. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(k).
12 5. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(l).
13 1. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(m).
14 2. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(n).
15 3. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(o).
16 4. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(p).
17 5. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(q).
18 6. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(r).
19 7. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(s).
20 1. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(t).
21 2. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(u).
22 3. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(v).
23 4. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(x).
24 5. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(y).
25 6. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(ee).
26 1. 5 ILCS 140/7(1)(ff).
27 2. 5 ILCS 140/7.5(f),(i),(j),(k),(l),(o),(p),(q),(r),(s),(v).
1-10-9: DENIAL OF RECORDS; REQUEST FOR REVIEW BY PUBLIC ACCESS COUNSELOR
("PAC"):
   A.   If information is requested for a commercial purpose, and the request
is denied by the village, the requester may not file a request for review with
the public access counselor ("PAC").
   B.   If a request for information is treated by the village as a request for
a commercial purpose and the request is denied by the village, the requester
may file a request for review with the PAC for the limited purpose of reviewing
whether the village properly determined that the request was made for a
commercial purpose. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
1-10-10: DENIAL OF RECORDS; EXEMPTION(S):
If requested information cannot be released due to its exempt nature, or if a
request is unduly burdensome, the FOIA officer, or his or her designee, shall
complete a "denial of request for records" form and mail same to the requester
along with a blank "notice of appeal" form. The denial of request for records
form shall include: a) the decision to deny the request; b) the reasons for the
denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application of any exemption
claimed; c) the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for
the denial; d) the right to review by the public access counselor, if
applicable, and the address and phone number for the public access counselor;
and e) the right to judicial review. If an exemption is claimed, then the
denial shall include the specific reason(s) for the denial, including a
detailed factual basis and a citation to support legal authority.
A copy of each such denial letter and the completed request form shall also be
provided to the village president and the village attorney. Copies of all
notices of denial shall be retained by the FOIA officer, or his or her
designee, in a central file that is publicly accessible and indexed by type of
exemption. (Ord. 2011-11-01, 11-9-2011)
1-10-11: APPEAL TO DENIAL OF REQUEST:
If a request for records is denied, and the requester has a right to seek
judicial review of such denial pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/11,
or has a right to seek judicial review of the village's determination that the
request was made for commercial purposes, the requester may, within sixty (60)
days from receipt of such denial, pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/
9.5, file an appeal to the denial of production of records directed to the
Illinois public access counselor, whose address is:
Public Access Counselor
Office Of The Attorney General
100 West Randolph, 12th Floor
Chicago, IL 60601
Tel. (312) 814-5526
Public Access Counselor
Office Of The Attorney General
500 S. 2nd Street
Springfield, IL 62706
Tel. (877) 299-3642
Fax: (217) 782-1396
E-mail: publicaccess@atg.state.il.us
The Illinois public access counselor will respond to such appeal and issue a
binding opinion within sixty (60) days after the request for review (appeal)
unless a request for extension of thirty (30) business days is given by the
PAC. The PAC's binding opinion must make findings of fact and conclusions of
law and shall be issued to the requester and public body. The PAC's binding
opinion is subject to administrative review by either party. (Ord. 2011-11-01,
11-9-2011)
1-10-12: BINDING OPINION:
A binding opinion issued by the attorney general shall be considered final for
purpose of administrative review. Any action for administrative review of a
binding opinion must be commenced in Cook or Sangamon County. (Ord. 2011-11-01,
11-9-2011)
CHAPTER 11
DEPOSITORIES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Designated
1-11-2: Authority To Deposit
1-11-1: DESIGNATED:
The following institutions are hereby designated as authorized depositories for
all village funds:
   A.   First American Bank.
   B.   Lake Villa Community Bank.
   C.   National City Bank.
   D.   State Bank of the Lakes.
   E.   First Midwest Bank.
   F.   Harris Bank.
   G.   Bank of Waukegan.
   H.   Bank One.
   I.   First National Bank Employee Owned.
   J.   First State Bank of Round Lake.
   K.   State Financial Bank.
   L.   The Illinois Funds.
   M.   State of Illinois Public Treasurers' Investment Pool ("IPTIP").
   N.   Illinois Metropolitan Investment Fund ("IMET"). (Ord. 2005-04-03, 4-13-
2005)
1-11-2: AUTHORITY TO DEPOSIT:
The village treasurer is authorized and directed to deposit village funds in
the institutions identified in section 1-11-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-04-
03, 4-13-2005)
CHAPTER 12
IDENTITY PROTECTION AND IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION POLICIES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Purpose
1-12-2: Definitions
1-12-3: Scope
1-12-4: Identity Protection Policy
1-12-5: Identity Theft Prevention Policy
1-12-6: Additional Identity Theft Prevention Program
1-12-7: Responding To Red Flags
1-12-8: Periodic Updates To The Program
1-12-9: Program Administration
1-12-1: PURPOSE:
The risk to the village, its employees, residents, agents, service providers,
and customers from data loss and identity theft is of significant concern to
the village and can be reduced only through the combined efforts of every
employee and contractor. The purpose of this chapter is to comply with 16 CFR
section 681.2 in order to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft by
identifying, detecting, and responding to identity theft red flags and to
comply with the Illinois identity protection act 1  in order to protect social
security numbers from unauthorized disclosure. (Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-13-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
ACT: The Illinois identity protection act 1 .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and board of trustees of the village.
COVERED ACCOUNT:
   A.   An account that the village offers or maintains, primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit
multiple payments or transactions, such as a utility account; and
   B.   Any other account that the village offers or maintains for which there
is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of
the creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance,
reputation, or litigation risks.
CREDIT: The right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or
to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and
defer payment therefor.
CUSTOMER: A person that has a covered account with the village.
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using identifying information of
another person without authority.
PERSON: A natural person, a corporation, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
PUBLICLY POST OR PUBLICLY DISPLAY: To intentionally communicate or otherwise
intentionally make available to the general public.
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
SENSITIVE INFORMATION: Includes the following information:
   A.   Credit card information, including any of the following:
      1.   Credit card number (in part or whole).
      2.   Credit card expiration date.
      3.   Cardholder name.
      4.   Cardholder address.
   B.   Tax identification numbers, including:
      1.   Social security number.
      2.   Business identification number.
      3.   State or federal employer identification number(s).
   C.   Payroll information, including, among other information:
      1.   Paychecks.
      2.   Pay stubs.
   D.   Other personal information belonging to any resident, agent, service
provider, customer, employee, or contractor, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Date of birth.
      2.   Address.
      3.   Phone numbers.
      4.   Maiden name.
      5.   Names.
      6.   Customer number.
SERVICE PROVIDER: A person that provides a service directly to the village.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-
13-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-12-3: SCOPE:
These policies and this protection program apply to employees, contractors,
consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the village, including all
personnel affiliated with third parties. (Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-13-2011)
1-12-4: IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY:
Pursuant to the Illinois identity protection act 1  ("the act"), in order to
protect social security numbers (SSNs) from unlawful use and/or unauthorized
disclosure, the following identity protection policy is hereby adopted:
   A.   The village and all officers, employees, and agents will comply with
the act.
   B.   All employees of the village identified as having access to SSNs in the
course of performing their duties for the village will be trained to protect
the confidentiality of SSNs. Training will include instructions on the proper
handling of information that contains SSNs from the time of collection through
the destruction of the information.
   C.   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain SSNs will have access to such information or documents.
   D.   SSNs requested from an individual will be provided in a manner that
makes the SSN easily redacted if required to be released as part of a public
records request.
   E.   All officers, employees, and agents of the village will redact SSNs
from the information or documents before allowing the public inspection or
copying of the information or documents.
   F.   When collecting an SSN or upon request by the individual, a statement
of the purpose or purposes for which the agency is collecting and using the SSN
will be provided.
   G.   The village and all officers, employees, and agents of the village will
not:
      1.   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's SSN.
      2.   Print an individual's SSN on any card required for the individual to
access products or services provided by the person or entity.
      3.   Require an individual to transmit his or her SSN over the internet,
unless the connection is secure or the SSN is encrypted.
      4.   Print an individual's SSN on any materials that are mailed to the
individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail service,
electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or federal law
requires the SSN to be on the document to be mailed. Notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary in this policy and the act, SSNs may be included in
applications and forms sent by mail, including, but not limited to, any
material mailed in connection with the administration of the unemployment
insurance act, any material mailed in connection with any tax administered by
the department of revenue, and documents sent as part of an application or
enrollment process or to establish, amend, or terminate an account, contract,
or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the SSN. An SSN that is permissibly
mailed under this policy and the act will not be printed, in whole or in part,
on a postcard or other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible
on an envelope without the envelope being opened.
   H.   Except as otherwise provided in this policy and the act, the village
and all officers, employees, and agents will not:
      1.   Collect, use, or disclose an SSN from an individual, unless: a)
required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or regulations, or the
collection, use, or disclosure of the SSN is otherwise necessary for the
performance of that agency's duties and responsibilities; b) the need and
purpose for the SSN is documented before collection of the SSN; and c) the SSN
collected is relevant to the documented need and purpose.
      2.   Require an individual to use his or her SSN to access an internet
website.
      3.   Use the SSN for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was
collected.
   I.   Subsection H of this section does not apply in the following
circumstances:
      1.   The disclosure of SSNs to agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors of the village or disclosure by the village to another
governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors, or subcontractors if
disclosure is necessary in order for the village to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the village will first request and receive from the contractor
or subcontractor a copy of the contractor's or subcontractor's policy that sets
forth how the requirements imposed on the village under this policy and the act
to protect an individual's SSN will be achieved, which policy shall be in a
form acceptable to the village.
      2.   The disclosure of SSNs pursuant to a court order, warrant, or
subpoena.
      3.   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs in order to ensure the
safety of: state and village employees; persons committed to correctional
facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities or retention
centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a state or
village facility.
      4.   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs for internal verification
of administrative purposes.
      5.   The disclosure of SSNs by a state agency to the village for the
collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or to the village
to assist with an investigation or the prevention of fraud.
      6.   The collection or use of SSNs to investigate or prevent fraud, to
conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a credit report from a
consumer reporting agency under the federal fair credit reporting act, to
undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under the federal Gramm
Leach Bliley act, or to locate a missing person, a lost relative, or a person
who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed property
benefit.
   J.   The village and all officers, employees, and agents will not encode or
embed an SSN in or on a card or document, including, but not limited to, using
a bar code, a chip, magnetic strip, RFID technology, or other technology, in
place of removing the SSN as required by this policy and the act.
   K.   This policy and the act do not apply to:
      1.   The collection, use, or disclosure of an SSN as required by state or
federal law, rule or regulation.
      2.   Documents that are recorded with a county recorder or required to be
open to the public under any state or federal law, rule, or regulation,
applicable case law, supreme court rule, or the constitution of the state of
Illinois.
   L.   A written copy of this identity protection policy will be filed with
the mayor and board of trustees of the village within thirty (30) days after
approval of the policy by its incorporation into this code. The village will
advise its employees of the existence of this policy and make a copy of this
policy available to each of its employees and will also make this policy
available to any member of the public, upon request. If this policy is amended,
then a written copy of the amended policy will be filed with the mayor and
board of trustees of the village and all employees will be advised of the
existence of the amended policy, and a copy of the amended policy will be made
available to each of the village's employees.
   M.   In order to comply with the provisions of the act, the village will
implement this policy within twelve (12) months after the date this identity
protection policy is approved.
   N.   To the extent that the standards for the collection, use, or disclosure
of SSNs and identity protection are stricter than the standards under the act
with respect to the protection of those SSNs, then, in the event of any
conflict with the provisions of the act, the stricter standards adopted by the
state or the village shall control.
   O.   This policy and the act do not supersede any more restrictive law,
rule, or regulation regarding the collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs. (Ord.
2011-04-02, 4-13-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-12-5: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION POLICY:
Village personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment in securing
confidential information to the proper extent. Furthermore, this chapter shall
be read and interpreted in conjunction with the Illinois freedom of information
act and the Illinois identity protection act. If an employee is uncertain of
the sensitivity of a particular piece of information, he or she should contact
their supervisor.
   A.   Hard Copy Distribution: Each employee, contractor, and subcontractor
performing work for the village will comply with the following policies:
      1.   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
      2.   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information and
record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
      3.   Desks, workstations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
      4.   Whiteboards, dry erase boards, writing tablets, etc., displaying any
sensitive information, in common shared work areas will be erased, removed, or
shredded when not in use.
      5.   When documents containing sensitive information are discarded they
will be placed inside a locked shred bin or immediately shredded. Municipal
records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance with the local records
act and the village's records retention policy.
   B.   Electronic Distribution: Each employee, contractor, and subcontractor
performing work for the village will comply with the following policies:
      1.   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using approved
village e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when stored in an
electronic format.
      2.   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the e-mail:
This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and is
intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use by
others is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-13-2011)
1-12-6: ADDITIONAL IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Covered Accounts: A covered account includes any account that involves
or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions. Every new and
existing customer account that meets the following criteria is covered by this
program:
      1.   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
      2.   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the village from
identity theft, including financial, operations, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
   B.   Red Flags: The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud.
Any time a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent,
it shall be investigated for verification:
      1.   Alerts: Alerts, notifications or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
      2.   Fraud Alert: A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer
report;
      3.   Credit Freeze: A notice of credit freeze from a consumer reporting
agency in response to a request for a consumer report; or
      4.   Address Discrepancy: A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer
reporting agency as defined in section 334.82(b) of the fairness and accuracy
in credit transactions act.
      5.   Inconsistent Activity: Red flags also include consumer reports that
indicate a pattern of activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern
of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
         a.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
         b.   An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
         c.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect
to recently established credit relationships; or
         d.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of
account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      6.   Suspicious Documents:
         a.   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been
altered or forged.
         b.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
         c.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
         d.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the village, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
         e.   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives
the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
      7.   Suspicious Personal Identifying Information:
         a.   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the village. For example:
            (1)   The address does not match any address in the consumer
report;
            (2)   The social security number (SSN) has not been issued or is
listed on the social security administration's death master file; or
            (3)   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is
not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
         b.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used
by the village. For example, the address on an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent application.
         c.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party
sources used by the village. For example:
            (1)   The address on an application is fictitious, a maildrop, or a
prison; or
            (2)   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
         d.   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
         e.   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of other customers or other persons opening accounts.
         f.   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
         g.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the village.
         h.   When using security questions (mother's maiden name, pet's name,
etc.), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide
authenticating information beyond that which generally would be available from
a wallet or consumer report.
      8.   Suspicious Activity: Unusual use of, or suspicious activity related
to, the covered account:
         a.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the village received a request for new, additional, or replacement
goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the account.
         b.   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud. For example, the customer fails to
make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
         c.   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with
established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
            (1)   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed
payments;
            (2)   A material change in purchasing or usage patterns.
         d.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
         e.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the
customer's covered account.
         f.   The village is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
         g.   The village is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions
in connection with a customer's covered account.
         h.   The village receives notice from customers, victims of identity
theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible
identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the village.
         i.   The village is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft. (Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-
13-2011)
1-12-7: RESPONDING TO RED FLAGS:
   A.   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee should
act quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the
village from damages and loss.
      1.   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all related
documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the village treasurer, or his or her designee, for
determination.
      2.   The village treasurer, or his or her designee, will complete
additional authentication to determine whether the attempted transaction was
fraudulent or authentic.
   B.   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate actions
should be taken immediately. Actions may include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Canceling the transaction;
      2.   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
      3.   Determining the extent of liability of the village; and
      4.   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
      5.   Any other actions the village treasurer, or his or her designee,
deems appropriate to further prevent or mitigate identity theft. (Ord. 2011-04-
02, 4-13-2011)
1-12-8: PERIODIC UPDATES TO THE PROGRAM:
   A.   At periodic intervals as may be established in the program, or as
required, the program will be reevaluated to determine whether all aspects of
the program are up to date and applicable in the current business environment.
   B.   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
   C.   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced or
eliminated. Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
   D.   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered may
also require revision to reduce damage to the village and its customers.
   E.   The corporate authorities may consider the following factors in
exercising its discretion in amending the program:
      1.   The village's experiences with identity theft;
      2.   Updates in methods of identity theft;
      3.   Updates in customary methods used to detect, prevent, and mitigate
identity theft;
      4.   Updates in the types of accounts that the village offers or
maintains; and
      5.   Updates in service provider arrangements. (Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-13-
2011)
1-12-9: PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Involvement Of Management:
      1.   The identity protection and the identity theft prevention program
(hereinafter collectively known as "the program") will not be operated as an
extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
      2.   Operational responsibility for the program is delegated to the
village treasurer, or any village employee, official, or independent contractor
to whom the village treasurer delegates such responsibility (i.e., his or her
designee).
      3.   The village treasurer, or his or her designee, shall report to the
corporate authorities on the effectiveness of the program and the compliance
with the regulatory requirements.
      4.   The village treasurer, or his or her designee, may also propose
recommendations or any amendments to the program to the corporate authorities.
   B.   Staff Training:
      1.   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials and
contractors who may reasonably be anticipated to come into contact with
accounts or personally identifiable information that may constitute a risk to
the village or its customers, including, but not limited to, its employees,
residents, agents, contractors, and/or service providers.
      2.   The village treasurer, or his or her designee, may delegate staff
training responsibilities to a person or persons who will be responsible for
ensuring identity theft training for all requisite employees and contractors.
      3.   The applicable village employees should receive an initial training
in all elements of this policy and additional training as changes to the
program are implemented by the corporate authorities.
   C.   Oversight Of Service Provider Arrangements:
      1.   It is the responsibility of the village to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
      2.   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft prevention
program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and the Illinois
identity protection act 1  and validated by appropriate due diligence, may be
considered to be meeting these requirements.
      3.   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in the
appropriate contract arrangements. (Ord. 2011-04-02, 4-13-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 13
RULES RELATIVE TO PUBLIC COMMENTS AT PUBLIC MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Limited Public Forum
1-13-2: Limitations
1-13-3: Recording
1-13-1: LIMITED PUBLIC FORUM:
   A.   All public meetings of public bodies of the village shall be and are
hereby declared to be a limited public forum for comments by members of the
public as required by the Illinois open meetings act, but any statements made
and/or opinions expressed by members of the public in attendance at such public
meeting(s) do not reflect the views of the village or of any officer, employee,
or public body of the village, but rather, represent only the views of the
persons making such statements and/or presenting such opinions who are solely
responsible for the content thereof.
   B.   Any member of the public making comments at any public meeting(s) of
any public body of the village shall do so in a manner so as to not disturb
and/or disrupt any of the proceedings of such public meeting(s).
   C.   All members of the public in attendance at a public meeting of any
public body of the village shall have an opportunity to be heard during that
portion or those portions of the public body's agenda designated for public
comment on the agenda for such meeting, or if there is no such item on the
agenda, then at the end of the public body's agenda prior to adjournment. Any
member of the public offering comments at a public meeting of any public body
of the village shall make such comments during that portion or those portions
of the public body's agenda designated for public comment on the agenda for
such meeting, or if there is none, then at the end of the public body's agenda
prior to adjournment. Any member of the public wishing to offer comments at
such a public meeting shall wait to make such comments until recognized by the
chair for such purpose, provided, however, the chair of the public body, or the
public body by a vote of at least a majority, may move the time designated for
public comment(s) on a particular issue to what the chair or public body deems
to be a more appropriate or convenient place on the agenda of the public body.
(Ord. 2011-04-01, 4-13-2011)
1-13-2: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The chair of the public body, or the public body by a vote of at least
a majority of a quorum, may limit public comments to maintain, encourage, and
foster civility. The chair may take such actions as are required to maintain an
orderly and civil meeting. The chair may declare as out of order patently
offensive or obscene comments or gestures.
   B.   The chair may impose reasonable limitations on public comment presented
at any public meeting, such as time limits and/or limitations on repetitious,
irrelevant or immaterial testimony, which ruling(s) may be overruled by a
majority of at least a quorum of the public body. Time limits, if imposed,
shall be fair and even handedly administered. The chair may rule on all
questions related to the relevancy of any public comment(s), which ruling(s)
may be overruled by a majority of at least a quorum of the public body. The
chair may also impose reasonable conditions and/or limitations on public
comments, including, but not limited to, time limitations, after giving due
consideration to factors present in particular proceedings, including, but not
limited to, the following:
      1.   The complexity of the issue;
      2.   Whether the member of the public offering comments possesses special
expertise;
      3.   Whether the public comments are a matter of taste or personal
opinion or concern an issue or proposal;
      4.   The degree to which the person's comments relate to the factors
which can be legally considered relative to any particular issue or proposal.
   C.   Any member of the public making comments at a public meeting shall be
required to sign in and identify in a general way the issue(s) on which such
person wishes to comment.
   D.   A member of the public may appear and make comments at a public meeting
on his or her own behalf or may be represented by an attorney. Any attorney
representing any party or objector(s) at such public meeting shall file a
written appearance and include thereon the names, addresses, and telephone
numbers of all of his or her clients, and any such attorney shall also be
subject to the same rules of conduct as provided by this code. (Ord. 2011-04-
01, 4-13-2011)
1-13-3: RECORDING:
Any member of the public attending, participating in, and/or speaking at such a
public village meeting should recognize the fact that, pursuant to the Illinois
open meetings act, the village is legally required to allow the recording of
such public meetings and those in attendance and cannot prevent and/or control
the dissemination, use, and/or republication of such recording(s). (Ord. 2011-
04-01, 4-13-2011)
CHAPTER 14
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT/ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Establishment
1-14-3: Jurisdiction
1-14-4: Administrative Composition
1-14-5: Notice Of Violation
1-14-6: Service And Notice Of Hearing
1-14-7: Administrative Hearings
1-14-8: Final Determination Of Liability
1-14-9: Debt Due Village; Judicial Review
1-14-10: Enforcement Of Judgment
1-14-11: Fines And Penalties
1-14-12: Remedial Hearing Date May Be Required
1-14-13: Impending Suspension Of Driver's License; Notice
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for fair and efficient
enforcement of this code and any other village ordinances as may be permitted
by law, through an administrative adjudication of alleged violations of this
code and any other village ordinances and establishing a schedule of fines and
penalties, and authority and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and
penalties. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
1-14-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the village by the Illinois municipal
code, including, but not limited to, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et
seq., 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, 5/11-
208.6, and 5/11-1201.1 there is hereby established a "code hearing department"
as an administrative adjudication system for the village of Lake Villa ("the
village") (hereinafter, "the code hearing department"). All authority granted
to the village under said statutes is implemented as provided in the provisions
of this chapter. The code hearing department shall be a separate agency within
the village government. For purposes of this and related sections of this code,
the terms herein shall have the same meaning as ascribed by the Illinois
municipal code. Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the
contrary, with the prior approval of the corporate authorities of this village,
the code hearing department and administrative adjudication system of another
municipality may be used by the village to implement this chapter and to serve
in all respects as the code hearing department and the administrative
adjudication system of this village as herein established. The establishment of
the village of Lake Villa code hearing department does not preclude the mayor
and board of trustees from using any other lawful method to enforce this code
and any other village ordinances. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
1-14-3: JURISDICTION:
The code hearing department shall have the authority and jurisdiction to
adjudicate matters arising out of alleged violations of any provisions of this
code or other village ordinance, including, but not limited to, building code
violations that must be adjudicated, pursuant to division 31.1 of article 11
and/or pursuant to other provisions of the Illinois municipal code 1 , and any
offense under the Illinois vehicle code 2  or similar local ordinance, except
any offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and
except for any offense or similar local ordinance which is a reportable offense
under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code. The code hearing department
shall be administered in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-
1 et seq., and 5/11-31.1-1 et seq. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5.
1-14-4: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The code hearing department shall be composed of one or more hearing officer
(s), a code hearing department administrator, and may also include a system
coordinator and/or computer operator and such other personnel hereinafter
appointed, having the duties and authority as hereinafter set forth.
The mayor is hereby authorized to appoint all hearing officers of this village
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The mayor is also hereby
authorized to appoint all other persons to hold the positions hereinafter set
forth below, and such other personnel as needed. Other than the hearing
officer, one person may hold and fulfill the requirements of one or more of the
positions provided for herein, and compensation for each of the said positions
shall be as approved by the mayor and board of trustees.
   A.   Hearing Officer:
      1.   The hearing officer shall preside over all adjudicatory hearings and
shall have the following powers and duties:
         a.   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether
or not a violation of this code or other applicable village ordinance exists;
         b.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of a violation of this code or other applicable village ordinance;
         c.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
         d.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
         e.   Issue and execute a written finding and decision on a matter by
entering an order stating whether or not the alleged violation exists; and
         f.   Impose penalties, sanctions or such other relief consistent with
applicable provisions of this code and assess costs upon finding a party liable
for the charged violation, except however, that in no event shall the hearing
officer have authority to impose a penalty of incarceration.
      2.   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under
this chapter, the hearing officer shall have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the hearing officer shall preside;
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that he/
she will adjudicate;
         c.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
      3.   A hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years.
   B.   Code Hearing Department Administrator: The code hearing department
administrator is authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
violations of this code and any other village ordinances as may be permitted by
law.
      2.   Adopt, distribute, and process all notices as may be required under
this chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of liability.
      4.   Certify copies of final determinations of an ordinance violation
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter, and any factual reports verifying the
final determination of any violation liability which was issued in accordance
with this chapter and the laws of the state of Illinois, including 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes ("ILCS") 5/11-208.3, as from time to time amended.
      5.   Certify reports to the Illinois secretary of state concerning
initiation of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter as hereinafter set forth, and the provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      6.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the code hearing department and administrative adjudication system
hereby created.
      7.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties through private collection and/or
through attorneys engaged for such purposes and pursue all postjudgment
remedies available to the extent provided by law.
      8.   Operate and maintain the administrative adjudication system of the
code hearing department, on a day to day basis, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Input of violation notice data and other relevant information.
         b.   Establish hearing dates and notice dates for proposed hearings.
         c.   Record fine and penalty assessment(s) and payments.
         d.   Issue payment receipts.
         e.   Issue all notice(s) of hearing dates and/or final determination
of liability; issue notice of hearings relative to impoundment of vehicle(s);
issue notice of impending driver's license suspension, in accordance with the
provisions hereinafter set forth.
         f.   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances of
defendants and/or their counsel at administrative hearings, pleas entered,
judgments entered, sanctions imposed, if any, fines and penalties assessed and
paid. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
1-14-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The system of administrative adjudication of any village ordinance violation
authorized to be adjudicated hereunder, shall be in accordance with the
following procedures:
   A.   Notice of any alleged violation of this code or of any other village
ordinance, other than any offense under the Illinois vehicle code or a similar
offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles, and
except for any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code, will be issued by the persons authorized under this chapter and will be
in writing and shall contain information as set forth in subsection D of this
section, and will be certified or sworn to by the individual issuing the notice
of violation and constitute prima facie evidence of the alleged violation cited
as hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Any sworn police personnel, any community service officer, any village
inspector, any village building officer, and/or the mayor of the village of
Lake Villa, or the mayor's designee, with board approval, is hereby authorized
to institute an administrative adjudication hearing by issuing a violation
notice specifying the date, time and place of violation, the ordinance or
ordinances violated, and the identification and signature of the person issuing
the violation notice. In addition, the notice shall include the date and
location of the hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
   C.   Any individual hereby authorized to issue notices of violation and who
observes and/or is otherwise made aware of an ordinance violation authorized to
be adjudicated under this chapter or a violation of any section of any village
ordinance, may issue a notice of violation thereof and may make service thereof
on the offending party as hereinafter set forth.
   D.   The violation notice shall be in writing and may contain, but shall not
be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the party violating the ordinance, if known.
      2.   The date, time, and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      3.   The section(s) of this code and/or other village ordinance allegedly
violated, the type and nature of the violation.
      4.   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
      5.   The penalty which may be assessed for failure to appear.
      6.   The names and witnesses of the violation.
      7.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
      8.   The docket number, date, and location of the adjudicating hearing of
ordinance violations, if applicable.
   E.   The initial date of the hearing shall not be less than thirty (30) days
nor more than forty (40) days after the notice of the alleged violation is
served. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
1-14-6: SERVICE AND NOTICE OF HEARING:
   A.   Service of any notice of violation may be made by the person issuing
such notice:
      1.   In the case of violation of title 7, "Motor Vehicles And Traffic",
of this code (the "village motor vehicle code"), service may be made by:
         a.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an
unlawfully standing or parked vehicle, unstickered vehicle, or vehicle
violating any compliance regulation;
         b.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator, or lessee
of the vehicle, if present; or
         c.   Handing the notice to a person responsible for the ordinance
violation(s) or leaving a copy of the notice with any person thirteen (13)
years of age or older at the residence of such a person responsible for the
ordinance violation(s).
         d.   Mailing the notice by first class mail and/or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation, if known, or to the vehicle owner, if known, along with a summons
commanding the individual to appear at the hearing.
      2.   In the case of violation of the village's building code, service
shall be made by:
         a.   Mailing such notice by first class mail and/or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to one or more of the owner(s) or occupant(s) of the
property, along with a summons commanding such person(s) to appear at the
hearing;
         b.   If the name of the owner(s) or occupant(s) of the property cannot
be ascertained or if service on such person(s) cannot be made by mail, service
may be made on such person(s) by posting or affixing a copy of the notice on
the front door of the structure where the violation has been identified, not
less than twenty (20) days before the hearing is scheduled.
      3.   In the case of any ordinance violation other than a violation of the
village motor vehicle code or building code, service may be made by:
         a.   Handing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation;
         b.   Handing the notice to a person responsible for the ordinance
violation(s) or leaving a copy of the notice with any person thirteen (13)
years of age or older at the residence of such a person responsible for the
ordinance violation(s);
         c.   Mailing the notice by first class mail and/or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation; or
         d.   Posting the notice upon the property where the violation is found
when the person is the owner or manager of the property.
   B.   The correctness of facts contained in any violation notice may be
verified by the person issuing said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice at the time of issuance; or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the code hearing department administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his or her control.
   C.   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained
by the code hearing department administrator and kept as a record in the
ordinary course of business.
   D.   Any violation notice issued, signed, and served in accordance herewith,
or a copy of the notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie
evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice. (Ord. 2013-07-02,
7-24-2013)
1-14-7: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Purposes: An administrative hearing shall be granted for the following
purposes:
      1.   To adjudicate any alleged ordinance violation on its merits; and/or
      2.   To contest the applicability of an administrative fee for towing and
impoundment imposed pursuant to this code, or, the validity of a notice of
impending driver's license suspension. The hearing shall be granted to the
registered owner or operator of the cited vehicle, pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, or the lessee of the cited vehicle, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306, incorporated herein by reference, and at the date,
time and place as is set forth by the code hearing department administrator and
served upon the registered owner, operator, or lessee for hearings contesting
the validity of notices of impending imposition of impoundment fee(s) or
driver's license suspension.
   B.   Continuances: No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing
officer at the hearing except where absolutely necessary to protect the rights
of the parties. Lack of preparation does not constitute cause for a
continuance.
   C.   Recording Of Hearing: All administrative hearings shall be recorded by
audiotape and shall culminate in a determination of liability or nonliability,
made by the hearing officer, who shall consider facts and/or testimony without
the application of the formal or technical rules of evidence. Evidence,
including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon
by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
   D.   Fines: The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of liability,
assess fines and penalties in accordance with section 1-14-11 of this chapter.
   E.   Counsel: Persons appearing to contest the alleged violation on its
merits may be represented by counsel at their own expense.
   F.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof shall be on the alleged offender
to refute the prima facie case set forth in the verified notice of violation.
   G.   Subpoenas:
      1.   Issuance: All subpoenas shall be issued only upon application and
approval by the administrative hearing officer after a determination by the
administrative hearing officer as to whether the requested testimony of the
witnesses or the documents or items sought by the subpoena are necessary to
present evidence that is relevant to the case and relates to a contested issue
in the case.
      2.   Content: A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
         a.   The person to whom it is directed;
         b.   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any;
         c.   The date for the appearance of the witness and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena;
         d.   The time for the appearance of the witness and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena; and
         e.   The place for the appearance of the witness and the production of
the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
      3.   Appearance: In no event shall the date identified for the appearance
of a witness or the production of documents or other items be less than seven
(7) days after service of the subpoena.
      4.   Contesting The Subpoena: Within three (3) business days of being
served with a subpoena issued in accordance with this chapter, the recipient of
the subpoena may contest the order authorizing the issuance of the subpoena to
the administrative hearing officer, setting forth in detail the recipient's
objections to the subpoena. Upon receipt of the contest to the subpoena, the
administrative hearing officer shall review the objections and, upon review,
enter the appropriate order.
   H.   Hearings And Evidence:
      1.   At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside, shall hear
testimony and shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or
nonexistence of a violation of this code. The strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings authorized by
this chapter.
      2.   The case for the village may be presented by an attorney designated
by the mayor or by any other village officer or employee, except that the case
for the village shall not be presented by an employee of the ordinance
enforcement department. The case for the alleged violator may be presented by
the alleged violator, his or her attorney or any other agent or representative
of the defendant.
      3.   In lieu of presenting testimony in person, a person may provide
written testimony under oath and duly notarized which testimony shall be
accepted by the hearing officer if received before the hearing date.
      4.   If on the date set for hearing the alleged violator or defendant or
his or her attorney fails to appear or present evidence, the hearing officer
may find the alleged violator in default and shall proceed with the hearing and
accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code violation.
      5.   Upon finding the alleged violator or defendant in default, the
administrator shall send or cause to be sent notices by first class mail,
postage prepaid to the violator who received the notice of an ordinance
violation; or, in the case of a violation of the automated traffic control
system, the registered owner or operator of the cited vehicle at the address as
recorded with the secretary of state, and shall be sent to the lessee of the
cited vehicle at the address last known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at
the time of the lease. Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail. (Ord. 2013-07-02,
7-24-2013)
1-14-8: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
   A.   Failure To Pay: A final determination of liability shall occur
following a defendant's failure to pay the fine or penalty imposed after the
hearing officer's determination of liability and the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, any administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Failure To Appear: Where a defendant and/or his or her counsel fails to
appear at the administrative hearing to contest the alleged violation on the
date and at the time and place specified in a prior served or mailed notice as
provided by this chapter, the hearing officer's determination of liability
shall become final either upon a denial of a timely filed petition to set aside
that determination or upon the expiration of the period for filing such a
petition without a filing having been made, as provided below.
   C.   Notice Of Failure To Appear: Upon failure of the person receiving a
notice of a violation of a village ordinance, other than a village motor
vehicle code violation, to appear at the time and date designated for a
hearing, or, in the case of a violation of the village motor vehicle code, the
registered owner, operator, or lessee of the cited vehicle (sometimes
hereinafter referred to as the "cited vehicle"), to pay the fine in full as
stated on said notice, the code hearing department administrator shall send or
cause to be sent notice of such failure by first class mail, postage prepaid to
the person to whom the notice of an ordinance violation was addressed; or, in
the case of the violation of the village motor vehicle code, the registered
owner or operator of the cited vehicle at the address as is recorded with the
secretary of state, and shall be sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the
address last known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease.
Service of notices sent in accordance herewith shall be complete as of the date
of deposit in the United States mail.
   D.   Notice Of Further Hearing For Failure To Pay Fine(s) And/Or Cost(s) Or
To Contest Validity Of Notice Of Imposition Of Impoundment Fee(s) Or Driver's
License Suspension: Upon the failure of the person receiving notice of an
ordinance violation or, in the case of a notice of a violation of the village
motor vehicle code, the registered owner, operator, or lessee of the cited
vehicle to pay in full the fine imposed by the hearing officer at an
administrative adjudication hearing, at which said person failed to appear, as
stated on said notice, a further notice shall be sent, in the manner as set
forth above, and shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   Date and location of violation cited in the violation notice.
      2.   Particular ordinance, and section thereof, if applicable, violated.
      3.   Vehicle make and state registration number (if applicable).
      4.   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   A section entitled "notice of hearing" which shall clearly set forth
that the person receiving a notice of ordinance violation, in the case of a
violation of the village motor vehicle code, title 7 of this code, or the
registered owner, operator, or lessee, may appear at an administrative hearing
to contest the applicability of an administrative fee for towing and
impoundment of a vehicle, or driver's license suspension on the date and at the
time and place as specified in the notice of hearing.
      6.   Date, time, and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
      7.   Statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of liability
for the "cited" violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated.
      8.   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust,
available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or
penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the city.
   E.   Notice Of Final Determination Of Liability: A notice of final
determination of liability shall be mailed via regular mail and/or via
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person(s) named in the
violation notice at such person's last known address following the conclusion
of an administrative hearing within five (5) days after the final determination
of liability is made, as is hereinafter set forth, and shall contain, but not
be limited to, the following information and warnings:
      1.   The hearing officer's findings of fact.
      2.   A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon the
findings of fact.
      3.   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village.
      4.   A statement setting forth any sanction ordered or costs imposed
which costs are debts due and owing the village.
      5.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the village within the time specified may result in the village's initiation of
collection procedures.
      6.   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
      7.   Any other warning of possible impoundment as permitted by law or
ordinance.
   F.   Petition For New Hearing: A hearing officer may set aside and vacate
any determination of liability and/or judgment entered by default and set a new
hearing date upon a petition filed within thirty (30) days after the issuance
of the order of default if the hearing officer determines that the petitioner's
failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time if the
petitioner establishes that the village did not provide proper service of
process.
   G.   Findings, Decision And Order:
      1.   Determination By Hearing Officer: At the conclusion of the hearing,
the hearing officer shall make a determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing as to whether or not a code violation exists. The
determination shall be in writing and shall be designated as the findings,
decision and order. The findings, decision and order shall include:
         a.   The hearing officer's findings of fact;
         b.   A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon
the findings of fact;
         c.   An order that states the sanction or dismisses the case if a
violation is not proven; and
         d.   A monetary sanction and/or any other sanction for a violation
under this chapter including fees and costs.
      2.   Copy Of Findings: A copy of the findings, decision and order will be
served on the defendant and violator within five (5) days after it is issued.
Service of the findings, decision and order shall be by first class mail as
provided for instituting code hearing proceedings. Payment of any penalty or
fine and the disposition of fine money shall be in the same manner as otherwise
set forth in this code.
      3.   Debt Due To Village: The fines, penalties, fees and costs contained
in this order are a debt due and owing the village of Lake Villa and said total
must be paid within thirty (30) days of the date the order is issued by the
administrative hearing officer.
      4.   Final Orders: The order of the administrative hearing officer
becomes final thirty (30) days following entry of the order or thirty (30) days
from a denial of a timely filed petition to set aside the hearing officer's
decision, whichever occurs last.
      5.   Payment: All fines and other monies paid to the village in
accordance with this section shall be remitted to the village and deposited in
the appropriate village account as designated by the village treasurer.
      6.   Petition To Set Aside Determination: A petition to set aside the
order of the administrative hearing officer must be filed within thirty (30)
days of entry of the administrative hearing officer's order. The petition shall
be filed in the village administrator's office. The administrative hearing
officer shall set a briefing schedule and hearing date. The grounds for the
petition are limited to the following:
         a.   Lack of proper service;
         b.   The person not having been the owner or lessee of the property
cited on the date the violation notice was issued;
         c.   The order is against the manifest weight of the evidence, or that
new evidence unknown to and unavailable to a party on the date of the hearing
will materially affect the order of the hearing officer; or
         d.   Excusable failure to appear at the hearing or request a new date
for a hearing.
In the event the determination is set aside upon a showing of just cause, the
hearing officer shall set a hearing on the merits for that violation at the
earliest available date convenient to all parties.
      7.   Violations Of Orders: Any person, having received notice and an
opportunity for a hearing as provided in this chapter who knowingly fails to
pay a fine or otherwise fails to comply with an order issued by an
administrative hearing officer under this chapter, including the issuance of a
subpoena, shall, if the order is not stayed by a court of competent
jurisdiction prior to its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Contempt shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each
day that the violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. In a prosecution under this provision, it shall not be a defense that
a person came into compliance with an order, sought judicial review of it or
made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to its effective date. (Ord.
2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
1-14-9: DEBT DUE VILLAGE; JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Any order to comply, or for a fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or
part of any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid or
uncompleted after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review
procedures under the administrative review law shall be a debt due and owing
the village and, as such may be collected and enforced in accordance with
applicable law.
   B.   Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or
does not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois administrative review law 1 . (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
1-14-10: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Illinois
administrative review law are a debt due and owing the village and may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of a
violation of this code and/or any other village ordinance, the village may
commence a proceeding in the circuit court or venue relative to a matter which
was considered pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of
obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order entered by the
hearing officer.
   C.   In any case in which a hearing officer finds that a defendant has
failed to comply with a judgment ordering such person to correct a violation of
this code or other applicable ordinance of the village or imposing any fine or
other sanction as a result of such violation, or that a defendant has failed to
pay or reimburse the village for any expenses incurred by the village to
enforce the judgment including, but not limited to, attorney fees, hearing
costs, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure
after they are fixed by the hearing officer, shall be a debt due and owing the
village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the village from consolidating multiple findings,
decisions and orders against a person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement
of the action, the village shall file a certified copy of the findings,
decision and order, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites
facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision and order was issued in
accordance with state law and the applicable village ordinances. Service of the
summons and a copy of the petition may be by any method provided for by section
2-203 of the code of civil procedure or by certified mail, return receipt
requested. If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision and order was
entered in accordance with the requirements of state law and the applicable
village ordinance and that the violator had an opportunity for a hearing and
for judicial review:
      1.   The court shall render judgment in favor of the village and against
the violator for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and order, plus
fees and costs. The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced in
the same manner as other judgments for the recovery of money.
      2.   The court may also issue any other orders and injunctions that are
requested by the village to enforce the order of the hearing officer to correct
a code violation.
   D.   If a defendant fails to pay within a prescribed period of time any fine
(s), sanction(s), and/or other costs due and owing the village as a result of
administrative adjudication of a matter, the village shall be and is hereby
authorized to record a lien for any such costs on the real estate or personal
estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the
village under this chapter. The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same
manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction. No lien may be enforced under this chapter until it has been
recorded. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-14-11: FINES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines and penalties shall be imposed by the hearing officer in
accordance with the specific provisions in subsection B of this section, or
where no fine or penalty is otherwise specifically provided for in this code,
the hearing officer shall impose a mandatory fine or penalty as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   The minimum mandatory daily fines and penalties applicable to specific
violations or findings of liability pursuant to this chapter shall be as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and each day a violation occurs or continues to
exist shall be a separate offense.(Ord. 2013-08-03, 8-14-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-
08-03, 8-27-2014; Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015; Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015; Ord.
2015-03-03, 3-11-2015; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
1-14-12: REMEDIAL HEARING DATE MAY BE REQUIRED:
Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter or code to the contrary by which
the prehearing settlement of a citation or notice to appear or a notice of
violation ("initial charging document") is authorized, any enforcement officer
or agent of the village may provide on the initial charging document that the
appearance of the defendant at an administrative hearing or in court shall be
required if such enforcement officer or agent of the village reasonably
believes, based upon one or more prior offenses of the same or similar nature
or other circumstances, that the defendant's appearance is necessary and should
be required to assure that the defendant thereafter takes appropriate remedial
measures to comply with the applicable provisions of this code or of any other
applicable ordinance(s) of the village. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
1-14-13: IMPENDING SUSPENSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE; NOTICE:
A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license shall be sent
to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or penalty
that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing or parking
regulation violations.
   A.   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or penalty
owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result in the
city notifying the secretary of state that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
306.5, incorporated herein by reference.
   B.   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by
first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary
of state.
   C.   The notice shall contain a warning that failure to pay the fine and/or
penalty, fees and costs due and owing the village within the time specified may
also result in proceeding with collection procedures in the same manner as a
judgment entered by any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-
24-2013)
CHAPTER 15
SOCIAL MEDIA USE POLICY
SECTION:
1-15-1: Purpose
1-15-2: General Policy
1-15-3: Comment Policy
1-15-1: PURPOSE:
The village has an overriding interest and expectation in determining what is
"spoken" on behalf of the village on its official village social media sites.
In that regard, the village has established a "social media use policy", the
purpose of which is to establish policies and regulations relative to the
establishment and use by the village of Lake Villa of various social media
sites, including, but not limited to, "Facebook" and "Twitter", as a means of
conveying information from the village and/or about the village to village
residents and other interested members of the general public utilizing
expanding methods of communication.
For purposes of this policy, the term "social media" shall be understood to be
content created by individuals, using accessible, expandable, and upgradable
publishing technologies, through and on the internet. Examples of current
social media tools include Facebook, weblogs, Viddler, RSS, YouTube, Twitter,
Foursquare, Vine and Flickr. For purpose of this policy, the term "comments"
includes information, articles, pictures, videos or any other form of
communicative content posted on a village social media site. (Ord. 2013-04-02,
4-10-2013)
1-15-2: GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   The village website, www.lake-villa.org, shall remain the village's
primary and predominant internet presence.
   B.   The village's use of social media tools falls generally into the
following two (2) categories:
      1.   As a channel for disseminating time sensitive information as quickly
as possible (example: emergency information);
      2.   As marketing/promotional channels which increase the village's
ability to broadcast its messages to the widest possible audience.
   C.   The mayor, or his designee, is responsible for the establishment and
maintenance of any official social media site on behalf of the village, the
approval of which is and shall be subject to the prior written approval of the
mayor, also sometimes referred to herein as the "public information
coordinator".
   D.   All social media sites established on behalf of the village shall be
administered and the content of each such site approved in writing in advance
by the mayor and/or his designee.
   E.   Each and all social media sites established on behalf of the village
shall include a clear statement that such site is maintained by the village and
that the user thereof agrees to accept and comply with the village's social
media policy as established herein. (Ord. 2013-04-02, 4-10-2013)
1-15-3: COMMENT POLICY:
   A.   As a public entity the village must comply with certain standards to
serve all of its constituents in a civil and unbiased manner.
   B.   The village's social media sites shall be considered only a very
limited public forum because the predominant purpose of the village's social
media sites is to facilitate and expedite communication and the conveyance of
information by the village to its residents and, as such, the village reserves
the right to restrict or remove any content thereon that is deemed in violation
of the social media policy herein established, the policies of any particular
site used by the village, or any applicable law.
   C.   Comments containing any of the following shall be and are considered
inappropriate forms of content and shall not be permitted to be posted on
village social media sites and are subject to immediate removal and/or
restriction by the public information coordinator or his designee:
      1.   Comments not related to the original topic posted on said site,
including random or unintelligible comments;
      2.   Profane, obscene, violent, or pornographic comments, content and/or
language;
      3.   Content that promotes, fosters or perpetuates discrimination on the
basis of race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status with
regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental disability,
sexual orientation, or any other protected status;
      4.   Defamatory or personal attacks;
      5.   Threats to any person or organization;
      6.   Comments in support of, or in opposition to, any political campaigns
or ballot measures;
      7.   Solicitation of commerce, including, but not limited to, advertising
of any business or product for sale;
      8.   Conduct in violation of any federal, state or local law;
      9.   Encouragement of illegal activity;
      10.   Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security of
the public or public systems; or
      11.   Content that violates a legal ownership interest, such as a
copyright, of any party;
      12.   Content or posts that contain external links to other sites for the
purpose of spam, viruses, link baits, clickthroughs, or other deceptive
practices.
   D.   The village reserves the right to report any violation of applicable
laws to the appropriate law enforcement agencies and other authorities that
have applicable jurisdiction.
   E.   A comment posted by a member of the public on any village social media
site is the opinion of the commentator or poster only, and publication of a
comment does not imply endorsement of, or agreement by, the village, nor do
such comments necessarily reflect the opinions or policies of the village, its
officers, trustees, employees, agents, or appointees.
   F.   The village reserves the right to deny access to village social media
sites for any person or entity that violates the village's social media policy,
at any time and without prior notice.
   G.   Employees representing the village via social media outlets are and
shall be required to conduct themselves at all times as professional
representatives of the village.
      1.   Employees are not permitted to use village branded social media
outlets to influence or affect the results of any election or nomination.
      2.   When a village employee responds to a comment, in his/her capacity
as a village employee, the employee's name and title should be made available
as part of the comment or post, when possible.
      3.   The employee shall not share personal information about himself or
herself, or other village employees, elected officials, appointed board or
commission members, or candidates for such positions.
      4.   Employees are and shall be prohibited from posting any privileged or
confidential information.
      5.   Employees are and shall be prohibited from posting any information
related to any commercial product, business, venture, partnership or other
entity in which such employee holds an interest, for the purpose of selling or
promoting such interest.
   H.   All comments posted to any village social media site(s) are bound by
those particular site's rules, regulations, rights, and responsibilities, and
the village reserves the right to report any violation of those rules,
regulations, rights and responsibilities to the social media site with the
intent of that site to take appropriate and reasonable responsive action. (Ord.
2013-04-02, 4-10-2013)
CHAPTER 16
PURCHASE AND CONTRACT POLICY
SECTION:
1-16-1: Purchases And Contract Thresholds
1-16-2: Competitive Bid Procedures
1-16-3: Contracts, Work Orders, Change Orders And Other Agreements
1-16-4: Exemptions
1-16-5: Invalid Contracts
1-16-1: PURCHASES AND CONTRACT THRESHOLDS:
   A.   Purchases of items one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and lower may be
made by staff generally authorized to make such purchases by the department
head.
   B.   Purchases above one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and below three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) are subject to verbal or written approval by the
appropriate department head or the village administrator.
   C.   Competitive bidding or competitive price comparison (as defined below)
is required for all purchases and contracts over three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) in accordance with the procedures set forth in this subsection. All
purchases and contracts over three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) must be
submitted to the village administrator for approval prior to competitive
bidding or competitive price comparison. Where applicable, the village
administrator shall determine which contracts are competitively bid.
"Competitive price comparison" shall mean receiving and documenting pricing
information on specified goods or services from at least three (3) potential
suppliers, unless otherwise determined by the village administrator. Reasons
for not following the competitive price comparison process shall be documented.
Purchases shall be made from the responsible supplier who best meets the
village's needs. Reasons for selecting a supplier other than the supplier with
the lowest costs shall be documented with the purchasing documents.
   D.   The competitive bidding requirements and procedures set forth in the
Illinois municipal code shall apply to all public works contracts that exceed
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), unless otherwise authorized by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of all trustees in accordance with state statute, 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-9-1, as amended from time to time.
   E.   Purchases that exceed the approved budget require approval of the
village board, if the difference is greater than two percent (2%) of the
budgeted amount, and the difference is greater than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   F.   The village administrator shall be authorized to continue to make
purchases of routine operating items that are in excess of the approved budget,
if the village administrator determines that these items are necessary for the
continued operation of the village. These items include, but are not limited
to, road salt, chemicals, office supplies, fuel and oil, repair parts,
electricity, telephone, etc. The village administrator shall adhere to all
provisions of this chapter in making these purchases.
   G.   Notwithstanding anything contained in Paragraph A through F, inclusive,
above, the Mayor of the Village shall be and is hereby authorized to act on
behalf of the Village to make contracts for the purchase of goods and/or
services so long as the respective amount of any such contract shall not exceed
Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) per contract, and in such cases,
neither competitive bidding nor competitive price comparisons shall be required
for any such contract approved in writing by the Mayor. (Ord. 2014-09-01, 9-10-
2014; amd. Ord. 2022-02-03, 2-21-2022)
1-16-2: COMPETITIVE BID PROCEDURES:
   A.   Advertisement For Bids:
      1.   All proposals to award purchase orders or contracts requiring
competitive bidding, as stated in subsection 1-16-1C of this chapter shall be
published at least ten (10) days (excluding Sundays and legal holidays) in
advance of the date announced for the receiving of bids, in a daily newspaper
in circulation throughout the municipality. Nothing contained in this section
shall be construed to prohibit the municipality from placing additional
announcements in recognized trade journals.
      2.   Advertisements for bids shall describe the character of the proposed
contract or agreement in sufficient detail to enable bidders thereon to know
what their obligations will be, either in the advertisement or by reference to
detailed plans and specifications on file at the time of the publication of the
first announcement. The advertisements shall state the date, time and place
assigned for opening of bids.
      3.   No bids shall be received at any time subsequent to the time
indicated in the announcement, provided, that an extension of time may be
granted for the opening of the bids. The time of the bid extension opening
shall not be less than five (5) days after the publication thereof, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded.
   B.   Sealed Bids: All sealed bids shall be publicly opened and read by the
village administrator or the village administrator's designee.
   C.   Requirement Of Bidder: A cashier's check, a certified check, or a bid
bond may be required of each bidder.
   D.   Award: The award of any purchase order, contract, or agreement shall be
in accordance with all applicable village ordinances.
   E.   Other Factors: In determining the responsibility of any bidder, the
village board may take into account other factors in addition to financial
responsibility, such as past records of transactions with the bidder,
experience, adequacy of equipment, ability to complete performance within the
specified time limit, and other pertinent considerations. (Ord. 2014-09-01, 9-
10-2014)
1-16-3: CONTRACTS, WORK ORDERS, CHANGE ORDERS AND OTHER AGREEMENTS:
The village administrator is authorized to execute contracts, work orders,
change orders, and other agreements (hereinafter referred to as "contracts")
that are specifically authorized by the village board as well as contracts for
routine day to day operating activities without specific contract approval by
the village board in accordance with section 1-16-1, "Purchases And Contract
Thresholds", of this chapter and in accordance with the limits established
below:
   A.   Contracts that are specifically authorized by the village board.
   B.   Contracts for routine operating activities specifically included in the
approved fiscal year budget up to the limits provided for each activity in the
budget and contract policy or other routine operation and maintenance
activities not specifically included in the budget up to three thousand dollars
($3,000.00), provided funds are on hand to pay for the resulting costs.
   C.   Contracts for the services of individuals possessing a high degree of
professional skill (as defined in subsection 1-16-4B of this chapter) which are
included in the approved fiscal year budget up to the limits provided for each
professional service in the budget or for other professional services not
specifically included in the budget up to three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
   D.   Contracts for design and construction engineering, when the village
board has formally authorized bidding of a project or included a project in the
approved fiscal year budget, up to the amounts for engineering in the project
cost estimate which was the basis for bidding or approval of the project.
   E.   Contract change orders in an amount up to ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) where it is determined that extra work is required outside of the
original contract where: 1) the work to be performed as an extra and is
essential to the fulfillment of the contract, 2) the work could not reasonably
be expected to be performed at a lesser sum if the work was authorized through
an independent contract rather than as an extra, and 3) the emergency nature of
the work, the availability of the contractor or materials or some other similar
reason would not permit the extra work to remain uncompleted until the next
regularly scheduled village board meeting. In order to sign contract change
orders in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), the village
administrator must seek verbal approval of the mayor and the senior trustee or
in their absence at least two (2) other trustees. Within twenty four (24)
hours, written concurrence shall be obtained and notification of the change
order shall be made to all trustees. All contract change orders will be subject
to ratification by the village board to confirm that they were signed in
accordance with this chapter. Written findings must be prepared and executed
for change orders in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and these
findings must be in conformance with 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/33E-9.
   F.   Engineering contract change orders in an amount of up to five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) of the original contract when unforeseen difficulties
outside the control of the village engineer result in an increase in the
engineering contract amount that was included in the construction estimate. In
order to sign engineering contract change orders that exceed five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) of the original contract, the village administrator must
seek verbal approval of the mayor and the senior trustee or in their absence at
least two (2) other trustees. Within twenty four (24) hours, written
concurrence shall be obtained and notification of the change order shall be
made to all trustees. (Ord. 2014-09-01, 9-10-2014)
1-16-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be considered exemptions to section 1-16-1, "Purchases And
Contract Thresholds", of this chapter:
   A.   In the case of a bona fide emergency, a contract or agreement may be
let or a purchase made, to the extent to resolve such emergency, without
competitive bids. Prior to making any purchase or contract hereunder, the
village administrator shall obtain the verbal concurrence of the mayor and
senior trustee, or in their absence, at least two (2) other trustees, that an
emergency exists. Within twenty four (24) hours, written concurrence shall be
obtained and notification will be made to all trustees indicating the nature of
the emergency, the cost of the work to abate the emergency and the contractor
awarded the work. The village administrator shall file a description of such
expenditures, including amounts, in writing, with the village board at its next
regular meeting, and shall provide the date and time the emergency commenced
and terminated, and the amount or amounts expended.
   B.   Contracts which by their nature are not adaptable to award by
competitive bidding are exempt, such as:
      1.   Contracts for the services of individuals possessing a high degree
of professional skill where the ability or fitness of the individual is an
important factor, such as auditing, accounting, architectural, engineering, and
legal services; and
      2.   Contracts for services, training, and educational material where the
ability or fitness of the trainer and/or quality of the materials plays an
important part; and
      3.   Contracts for utility services, where no reasonable competitive
alternatives are available, such as water, sewer, local telephone, natural gas
and electric services; and
      4.   Contracts with the federal government or any agency thereof or
purchases under the state of Illinois joint purchasing act. (Ord. 2014-09-01,
9-10-2014)
1-16-5: INVALID CONTRACTS:
Any purchase or contract executed in violation of this chapter shall be null
and void as to the village and, unless the village later ratifies such
purchase, if public funds have been extended thereon, the amount thereof may be
recovered in the name of the village. (Ord. 2014-09-01, 9-10-2014)
CHAPTER 17
TRAVEL, MEALS AND LODGING EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Purpose; Effective Date
1-17-2: Definitions
1-17-3: Village Policy And Regulations For Reimbursement Of Travel, Meals, And
Lodging Expenses
1-17-1: PURPOSE; EFFECTIVE DATE:
The Illinois general assembly enacted public act 99-0604, the "local government
travel expense control act" ("the act"), the provisions of which are applicable
to all units of local government, including municipalities. The purpose of this
chapter is to establish a village policy and regulations which are consistent
with the act relative to the approval of and reimbursement for expenses
incurred relative to travel on official village business, which expenses shall
include, but not be limited to, travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by,
or which are proposed to be incurred by, members of the corporate authorities
of the village and all village officers and employees. This chapter is
effective as of January 1, 2017. (Ord. 2017-01-02, 1-11-2017)
1-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
following meanings:
ENTERTAINMENT: Shall mean and include, but not be limited to, shows,
amusements, theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public
or private entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event.
TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees and
officers of the village involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment
to private agencies providing transportation or related services.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE PERSONNEL: All elected officials, all appointed officers, and all
employees of the village. (Ord. 2017-01-02, 1-11-2017)
1-17-3: VILLAGE POLICY AND REGULATIONS FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEALS, AND
LODGING EXPENSES:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall be and is hereby applicable to each
member of the corporate authorities and/or other subsidiary commission,
committee, or board of the village, as well as to all other village personnel,
and, except as otherwise provided herein, this chapter supersedes any previous
policies of the village relative to reimbursement for travel expenses.
   B.   Village Policy And Regulations:
      1.   Established: The village hereby establishes the village's "travel,
meals, and lodging reimbursement policy" and regulations as set forth in this
chapter for the reimbursement of travel expenses related to the official
business of the village incurred by or to be incurred by members of the
corporate authorities and subsidiary boards, commissions, and/or committees of
the village, or by village elected officials, officers and employees (sometimes
referred to herein as the "policy"), which policy shall be as set forth in this
chapter.
      2.   Overnight Travel: All eligible travel that includes an overnight
stay requires approval of the village administrator. Overnight travel shall be
limited as much as possible by determining whether similar training or business
events could be held locally to avoid overnight travel. Requests for overnight
travel shall accompany a written request to the village administrator,
including a description of the event requiring overnight travel, the reason(s)
overnight travel is being requested and whether sufficient funds are available
for this travel event.
      3.   Accompaniment By Family Member: Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the village will not reimburse village personnel for travel costs of
family members traveling with village personnel on official village business.
Should a family member accompany the village personnel for personal reasons,
only those costs related to the village personnel's travel may be reimbursed.
      4.   Combined Business/Personal Travel: Whenever village personnel, for
his or her convenience and/or enjoyment, travels to an approved event on
official village business by an indirect route or interrupts village travel for
personal travel or other reasons, any additional expenses incurred related to
such personal travel are the responsibility of the village personnel.
      5.   Expense Payments: The village will pay in advance, as much as
possible, for lodging, registration, per diem and airfare. Expenses not paid in
advance, such as meals and mileage shall be reimbursed to the employee in the
village's accounts payable system.
      6.   Expense Reporting: The travel and expense reimbursement report form
("the form") should be completed in accordance with the instructions noted on
the form. Village personnel should provide as much detailed information as
possible of all expenses itemized on the form, including the cost of
registration, books, literature, meals, hotel, airfare, etc., regardless of
whether such expenses were paid directly to a vendor (e.g., registration fees)
or by credit card (e.g., hotel bill). Original receipts must be included with
the form, except when it is impractical to do so or when specifically exempted
by this travel policy (e.g., cost of public transportation, tips, parking
meters, etc.).
      7.   Type(s) Of Travel For Which Reimbursement May Be Requested: An
officer, elected official, or employee of the village may request reimbursement
for the following type(s) of travel, lodging, and meals: travel, lodging, and
meals incurred in regard to professional municipal association meeting(s) and
conference(s), continuing education meeting(s) and conference(s), economic
development meeting(s) and conference(s); attendance at meeting(s) and/or
conference(s) of intergovernmental organizations, associations, and/or councils
of government, including, but not limited to, their annual meeting(s),
conference(s), dinner(s), and/or legislative event(s); and fact finding trip
(s), legislative adjudication and/or administrative trip(s) to attend
proceeding(s), hearing(s), and/or meeting(s) of other unit(s) of government, or
meeting(s) with the members thereof, relative to matters directly or indirectly
relating to official village business, village matters and/or activities, and/
or impacting the village and/or its officers, employees, and/or residents
(sometimes collectively referred to herein as "official village business") and/
or travel permitted in an employment agreement.
Approval of these expenses shall be in advance and shall be based on the
availability of funds, and importance of the event relative to the employee's
essential job tasks.
      8.   Entertainment Expenses: The village shall not provide any
reimbursement for entertainment expenses, as that term is defined herein.
      9.   Reimbursement Of Expenses Incurred By Or To Be Incurred By All
Village Personnel, Other Than Members Of The Corporate Authorities:
         a.   Each person requesting reimbursement by the village of
expenditures incurred, or to be incurred, for travel related to the official
business of the village shall be required to complete a form of request for
reimbursement, as may be amended from time to time, provided by the village and
shall submit written evidence of all such expenses for which approval for
reimbursement by the village is requested. The information required to be
provided on said form shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            (1)   The name and job title, office or position with the village
of the individual who received or is requesting reimbursement;
            (2)   The date(s) and the nature of the official village business
for which such expenses were or are expected to be incurred;
            (3)   A written estimate of the expected cost of the travel, meals,
or lodging for which reimbursement is requested.
         b.   Reimbursement to any village personnel (other than a member of
the corporate authorities) for such travel expenses shall require the written
approval by such employee's department head. If overnight stay is required,
advanced approval is required by the village administrator.
      10.   Reimbursement Of Expenses Incurred By Or To Be Incurred By Members
Of The Corporate Authorities Of The Village:
         a.   Each member of the corporate authorities of the village
requesting reimbursement by the village of expenditures incurred, or to be
incurred, for travel related to official village business as defined in this
chapter shall be required to complete a form of request for reimbursement, as
may be amended from time to time, provided by the village and shall submit
written evidence of all such expenses for which approval for reimbursement by
the village is requested. The information required to be provided on said form
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
            (1)   The name, job title, or office with the village of the
individual who received or is requesting reimbursement;
            (2)   The date(s) and the nature of the official village business
for which such expenses were or are expected to be incurred;
            (3)   A written estimate of the expected cost of the travel, meals,
or lodging for which reimbursement is requested;
            (4)   If reimbursement is being requested by a member of the
corporate authorities of the village related to the attendance at an event by
such member's spouse, the specific event or event(s) must be identified and the
reason for such request must be provided in writing.
         b.   Reimbursement for members of the corporate authorities for all
such travel, meals, and lodging expenses require the written approval by a roll
call vote of the corporate authorities at an open meeting held by the corporate
authorities.
      11.   Maximum Cost Of Expenses Which May Be Approved For Reimbursement:
The maximum cost of expenses which may be approved for reimbursement by the
village for any travel, transportation, meals, and/or lodging shall be as
provided in this chapter, as amended from time to time, and/or section 5.5,
"Training, Travel And Tuition Reimbursement", as amended from time to time,
which is part of the village's personnel policy and which is hereby
incorporated by reference as fully as if set forth herein.
      12.   Approval Of Expenses In Excess Of The Approved Maximum Cost(s) Or
The Approved Estimated Cost(s):
         a.   Any request by village personnel for reimbursement by the village
for costs incurred or estimated costs to be incurred for travel, meals, and/or
lodging which are in excess of the approved maximum amount of expense for any
such item or items shall require the approval by roll call vote of the
corporate authorities of the village at an open meeting held by the corporate
authorities of the village.
         b.   If an expense or expenses is or are incurred by any village
personnel pursuant to an emergency or other extraordinary circumstance(s), as
determined by the corporate authorities of the village, and exceed(s) the
respective maximum amount(s) otherwise permitted by this chapter for
reimbursement, such expense(s) shall require the written approval by roll call
vote of the corporate authorities of the village at an open meeting held by the
corporate authorities of the village.
      13.   Public Records: As provided in the act, all documents, including
any forms and/or receipts submitted to the village for reimbursement are and
shall be public records subject to disclosure under the Illinois freedom of
information act 1 .
      14.   Village Travel Policy: Except as set forth in this chapter, the
"training, travel and tuition reimbursement" provisions contained in section
5.5 of the village's personnel policy (the "travel policy"), as amended from
time to time, is hereby made a part of this chapter by reference as if fully
set forth herein, and said travel policy shall be and remain in full force and
effect, provided, however, to the extent that such travel policy is
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail and control. (Ord. 2017-01-02, 1-11-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140.
CHAPTER 18
FEES, CHARGES, DEPOSITS, FINES, AND OTHER AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THE VILLAGE
SECTION:
1-18-1: Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, And Other Amounts Payable To The
Village
1-18-1: FEES, CHARGES, DEPOSITS, FINES, AND OTHER AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THE
VILLAGE:
All fees, charges, deposits, fines, and other amounts required to be paid to
the Village must be paid by cash or check made payable to the " Village of Lake
Villa", or by a credit card accepted by the Village, unless otherwise specified
in this Code, and are a debt due and owing to the Village pursuant to Section
1-5-3, "Debts and Legal Obligations Due to the Village", of this Code. Fees,
charges, deposits, fines, and other amounts payable to the Village pursuant to
the various provisions of this Code include, but are not limited to, the
following. The following list is intended to be comprehensive but may not
include each and every fee, charge, deposit, fine, or other amount due and
owing to the Village pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
Except as specifically provided in this Code, all fees, charges, deposits,
fines, and other amounts payable to the Village shall be non-refundable.
Reference should always be made to the applicable Code section as cited below
for a detailed description of the fee, charge, deposit, fine, or other amount
payable to the Village and the related Code provisions.
FEES, CHARGES, DEPOSITS, FINES AND OTHER AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THE VILLAGE
FEES, CHARGES, DEPOSITS, FINES AND OTHER AMOUNTS PAYABLE TO THE VILLAGE
TITLE 1, ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
Chapter 4, "General Penalty"
                         Mandatory daily fine to be imposed upon any person convicted of a     Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
                         violation of any section or provision of this Code, except as         than $750.00 per day, and each day a
General Penalty  1-4-1   otherwise specifically provided in this Village Code. A separate      violation exists or continues constitutes
                         offense shall be deemed committed for each day on which each          a separate offense.
                         violation exists or continues.
Chapter 8, "Professional Fees"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                         Any person required by Village ordinance, or by state or federal law, Such person is required to pay for all
Payment for fees         to submit any plans, specifications or other documents to the Village fees for professional services and costs
required         1-8-2   for review or to have any matter or thing inspected by the Village    incurred by the Village as more fully set
                         shall be required to pay for the fees and costs incurred by the       forth in Section 1-8-2 hereof.
                         Village for the project.
Escrow deposit           Escrow deposit with the Village required prior to the Village         An escrow deposit shall be in an amount as
required         1-8-3   incurring any costs or fees for professional services or providing    determined by the Village Administrator,
                         any approvals relative to a project.                                  or his designee.
Chapter 10, "Freedom of Information Act" ("FOIA")
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               Black and      $0.15 per page after the
                                                                                               white copies   first 50 pages
                                                                                               Fee for color  Actual costs incurred by
                                                                                               or irregular   the Village in reproducing
                                                                                               sized copies   the records
                                                                                               Additional
                                                                                               charge for     $1.00 per record
                                                                                               certifying a
                                                                                               record
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               producing      Actual cost incurred by the
Fee(s) for               Fee(s) required to be paid to the Village by persons requesting       records in     Village for purchasing the
production of            copies of documents pursuant to the Illinois Freedom of Information   electronic     recording medium
documents                Act.                                                                  format
pursuant to the  1-10-7  NOTE: Documents may be furnished without charge if the requester is   FOR COMMERCIAL REQUESTS:
Freedom of               unable to pay for them, and the purpose of such request is determined For records
Information Act          by the FOIA officer to be in the public interest. (Sec. 1-10-7(D).)   maintained by  Actual cost of retrieving
                                                                                               a third-party  and transporting public
                                                                                               storage        records from an off-site
                                                                                               company under  storage facility.
                                                                                               contract with
                                                                                               the Village
                                                                                               Actual cost of
                                                                                               retrieving and
                                                                                               transporting   $10.00 per hour after the
                                                                                               public records first 8 hours
                                                                                               from an off-
                                                                                               site storage
                                                                                               facility
Chapter 14, "Code Hearing Department/Administrative Adjudication System"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               Mandatory
                                                                                               daily fine or
                                                                                               penalty
                                                                                               imposed for    Not less than $100.00 per
                                                                                               each violation violation nor more than
                                                                                               where no other $750.00 per violation, and
                                                                                               fine or        each day a violation exists
                         Mandatory daily fines and/or penalties which shall be imposed by the  penalty is     or continues constitutes a
Fines and        1-14-11 hearing officer and paid to the Village, except as otherwise          otherwise      separate offense.
penalties        ( A)    specified in subsection                                               specifically
                         1-14-11 (B) of this Chapter.                                          provided in
                                                                                               this Code.
                                                                                               Fine or        Not less than $200.00 per
                                                                                               penalty for    day per violation nor more
                                                                                               all violations than $750.00 per day per
                                                                                               of Title 8,    violation, and each day a
                                                                                               "Building      violation exists or
                                                                                               Regulations"   continues constitutes a
                                                                                                              separate offense.
                         Mandatory daily fines and/or penalties which shall be imposed by the
                         hearing officer relative to specific violations or findings of        See the fines and/or penalties as set
                         liability, and each day a violation occurs or continues shall         forth below:
                         constitute a separate offense:
                         TITLE 3, BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offense    2nd Offense 3rd Offense and
                                                                                                                          thereafter
                         Chapter 1, Business Registration                                      $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 3, Amusements; Amusement Devices                              $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 4, Amusement Parks                                            $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 5, Auctions, Auctioneers                                      $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 6, Vending Machines                                           $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 7, Massage Establishment; Services                            $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 8, Liquor Regulations                                         $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 9, Solicitors                                                 $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 10, Cable and Video Service Provider and PEG Access Support   $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Fees and Consumer Protection
                         Chapter 11, Taxicabs Regulated                                        $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 12, Garage Sales                                              $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 13, Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax               $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 14, Elevators                                                 $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 15, Solid Waste Disposal                                      $100.00        $250.00     $500.00
                         Chapter 16, Raffles                                                   $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 17, Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and           $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Responsibilities
                         Chapter 18, Municipal Gas Utility Tax                                 $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 19, Municipal Electric Utility Tax                            $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 20, Video Gaming Terminals                                    $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         TITLE 4, PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offense    2nd Offense 3rd Offense and
                                                                                                                          thereafter
                         Chapter 1, Nuisances, except that violations of this Chapter may be
                         compromised and settled by the prepayment of a fine of $30.00 per     $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         violation prior to the initial hearing
                                                                                                                          Not less than
                                                                                                                          $200.00 per day
                                                                                                                          nor more than
                                                                                                                          $750.00 per day
                                                                                                                          per violation,
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for any     and each day
                                                                                               violation of Chapter 2 of  each $750.00
                                                                                               Title 4                    violation
                                                                                                                          exists or
                                                                                                                          continues
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                                                          separate
                                                                                                                          offense.
                                                                                                                          Not less than
                                                                                                                          $200.00 per day
                                                                                                                          nor more than
                                                                                                                          $750.00 per day
                                                                                                                          per violation,
                                                                                                                          and each day
                                                                                                                          such chronic
                                                                                               CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: nuisance
                         Chapter 2, Abatement of Chronic Nuisance Properties                   Mandatory fine for any     property exists
                                                                                               violation of Chapter 2 of  or continues
                                                                                               Title 4 with respect to a  without
                                                                                               chronic nuisance property  implementat ion
                                                                                                                          of a remedial
                                                                                                                          plan approved
                                                                                                                          by the Chief of
                                                                                                                          Police
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                                                          separate
                                                                                                                          offense.
                                                                                                                          Not less than
                                                                                                                          $500.00 per day
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for any     nor more than
                                                                                               violation of Chapter 2 of  $750.00 per day
                                                                                               Title 4 by any person who  per violation,
                                                                                               has been found guilty or   and each day
                                                                                               liable of any violation of each violation
                                                                                               this Chapter within the    exists or
                                                                                               preceding 365 days         continues
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                                                          separate
                                                                                                                          offense.
                         Chapter 3, Outdoor Burning Regulated, except that violations of this
                         chapter may be compromised and settled by the prepayment of a fine of $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         $30.00 per violation prior to the initial hearing
                         Chapter 4, Dumping in Lakes Prohibited
                         PENALTY: Mandatory fines, plus restitution to the Village for all     $200.00, plus  $400.00,    $750.00 plus
                         costs incurred by the Village in removing, disposing of, or storage   restitutio n   plus        restitution
                         of the property, including any attorney's fees incurred by the                       restitution
                         Village
                         Chapter 6, Watershed Development and Site Development Regulations     $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 7, Aerators                                                   $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 8, Restrictions on the Outside Use of Water                   $100.00        $250.00     $500.00
                         Chapter 9, Prohibited Noises                                          $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                                                                                                                          Not less than
                                                                                                                          $100.00 per day
                                                                                                                          nor more than
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for a       $750.00 per day
                                                                                               violation of Chapter 2 of  per violation,
                                                                                               Title 4, except as         and each day
                                                                                               otherwise provided in      each violation
                                                                                               Section                    exists or
                                                                                               4-10-8                     continues
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                                                          separate
                                                                                                                          offense.
                                                                                                                          For the first
                                                                                                                          violation: Not
                                                                                                                          less than
                                                                                                                          $100.00 per day
                                                                                                                          per violation,
                                                                                                                          and each day a
                                                                                                                          violation
                                                                                                                          exists or
                                                                                                                          continues
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for smoking separate
                                                                                               in an area where smoking   offense
                                                                                               is prohibited under        For each
                                                                                               Chapter 10                 subsequent
                                                                                                                          violation: Not
                                                                                                                          less than
                                                                                                                          $200.00 per day
                                                                                                                          per violation,
                         Chapter 10, Lake Villa Smoke-Free Illinois Act Regulations                                       and each day
                                                                                                                          each violation
                                                                                                                          exists or
                                                                                                                          continues
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                                                          separate
                                                                                                                          offense
                                                                                                                          For the first
                                                                                                                          violation: Not
                                                                                                                          less than
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for a       $250.00 per day
                                                                                               person who owns, operates, and each day a
                                                                                               or otherwise controls a    violation
                                                                                               public place or place of   exists or
                                                                                               employment that is in      continues
                                                                                               violation of Chapter 10.   constitutes a
                                                                                               [NOTE: These fines shall   separate
                                                                                               not apply to any such      offense
                                                                                               person who violates any    For a violation
                                                                                               provision of this Chapter  of Chapter 10
                                                                                               10 more than twice during  within one year
                                                                                               any one year period, in    after the first
                                                                                               which event, the           violation: Not
                                                                                               provisions of the Smoke-   less than
                                                                                               Free Illinois Act,         $500.00 per day
                                                                                               including but not limited  and each day a
                                                                                               to the penalties therein,  violation
                                                                                               shall be applicable and    exists or
                                                                                               control.]                  continues
                                                                                                                          constitutes a
                                                                                                                          separate
                                                                                                                          offense
                                                                                                              $400.00,
                                                                                               $200.00, plus  plus costs  $750.00, plus
                         Chapter 11, Hazardous Material Spiller Pays Regulations (See also     costs of       of removal  costs of
                         Section                                                               removal and/or and/or      removal and/or
                         4-11-8  hereof)                                                       remediati on   remediatio  remediation
                                                                                               incurred by    n incurred  incurred by the
                                                                                               the Village    by the      Village
                                                                                                              Village
                                                                                               Mandatory daily fine of not less than
                                                                                               $100.00 per day and not more than $750.00
Mandatory daily  1-14-11                                                                       per day, and each day a violation exists
fines and        ( B)    Chapter 12, Phosphorus Free Fertilizer                                or continues constitutes a separate
penalties                                                                                      offense.
                                                                                               Such fine shall be in addition to any
                                                                                               other sanctions and/or remedies provided
                                                                                               by Illinois statute(s).
                         TITLE 5, PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND UTILITIES
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offense    2nd Offense 3rd Offense and
                                                                                                                          thereafter
                         Chapter 1, Streets and Sidewalks [See Chapter 1 of Title 5 for other
                         fees, costs, or reimbursement to Village for expenses incurred,       $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         including tree removal]
                         Chapter 2, Parks and Recreation Area, except that violations of this
                         Chapter may be compromised and settled by the prepayment of a fine of $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         $50.00 per violation prior to the initial hearing
                         Chapter 3, Public Improvements; Design and Construction               $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 4, Combined Waterworks and Sewer System Regulations           $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 5, Private Sewage Disposal                                    $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 6, Water Well Code                                            $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                                                                                                              $400.00
                                                                                               $200.00 plus   plus costs  $750.00 plus
                         Chapter 7, Cross- Connections Control Program                         costs incurred incurred by costs incurred
                                                                                               by the Village the Village by the Village
                                                                                               for clean- up  for clean-  for clean-up
                                                                                                              up
                         Chapter 7A, Well Abandonment                                          $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 9, Utility Relocation                                         $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 10, Construction of Utility Facilities in Rights-of-Way       $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 11, Detention Ponds and Drainage Easements                    $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 12, Utility Easements                                         $200.00        $400.00     $750.00
                         TITLE 6, POLICE REGULATIONS
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offense    2nd Offense 3rd Offense and
                                                                                                                          thereafter
                         Chapter 2, Criminal Code, Offenses:                                                  
                            
                         6-2-1 , Disturbing the                                                $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Peace, Noise
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-2 , Bodily Harm
                            
                         6-2-3 , Offenses Involving                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Property
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-4 , Gambling
                            
                         6-2-5 , Interference with                                             $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Public Officers
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-6 , Disorderly Conduct
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-7 , Loitering
                            
                         6-2-8 , Minors, Offenses                                              $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Involving
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-9 , Sex Offenses
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-10 , Firearms
                            
                         6-2-11 , Possession, Use,
                            and/or Delivery of                                              $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Cannabis and/or Other
                            Illegal Substances
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-12 , Inchoate Offenses
                            
                         6-2-13 , Delivery and                                                 $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Possession of Alcohol
                            
                         6-2-14 , Tobacco Products                                             $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            and Alternative Nicotine
                            Products
                            
                         6-2-15 , Possession or                                                $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Discharge of Fireworks
                            Prohibited
                                                                                            $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                         6-2-16 , Public Intoxication
                            
                         6-2-17 , Possession of                                                $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Drug Paraphernalia
                            
                         6-2-18 , Consumption or                                               $100.00        $250.00     $750.00
                            Possession of Alcohol on
                            Public Property
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for         FIRST OFFENSE:
                                                                                            conviction of a person     $50.00 and/or
                         6-2-19 , Truancy                                                      between the age of 10      community
                                                                                               years of age and under 18  service
                                                                                               years of age
                                                                                                                          SECOND OR
                                                                                                                          SUBSEQUE NT
                                                                                                                         OFFENSE:
                                                                                                                          $100.00 and/or
                                                                                                                          community
                                                                                                                          service
                                                                                               For any person under the
                                                                                               age of 10 years who is
                                                                                               convicted of a violation   FIRST OFFENSE:
                                                                                               of Section                 $50.00 and/or
                                                                                              6-2-19  of this Village    community
                                                                                               Code, mandatory fine to be service
                                                                                               paid by the parent, legal
                                                                                               guardian, or custodian of
                                                                                               such person
                                                                                                                          SECOND OR
                                                                                                                          SUBSEQUE NT
                                                                                                                         OFFENSE:
                                                                                                                          $100.00 and/or
                                                                                                                          community
                                                                                                                          service
                                                                                                                          FIRST OFFENSE:
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for         Not less than
                                                                                               conviction of a first      $250.00 nor
                                                                                               offense                    more than
                                                                                                                          $750.00
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for         SECOND OFFENSE:
                                                                                            conviction of a second     Not less than
                         6-2-20 , Social Hosting                                               offense within a 12 month  $500.00 nor
                            Regulations                                                     period                     more than
                                                                                                                          $750.00
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for         THIRD OR
                                                                                               conviction of a third or   SUBSEQUE NT
                                                                                               subsequent offense within  OFFENSE: Not
                                                                                               a 12 month period          less than
                                                                                                                          $750.00
                                                                                                                          Not less than
                                                                                                                          $100.00 nor
                                                                                               Mandatory fine for         more than
                                                                                               conviction of a violation  $750.00 per day
                                                                                               of Chapter 2 of Title 6,   per violation,
                                                                                               except as otherwise        and each day
                                                                                               provided in Sections       such violation
                                                                                               6-2-19  and                exists or
                                                                                            6-2-20  hereof             continues
                         6-2-21 (A), (B), Penalty:                                                                        constitutes a
                            Mandatory fine, except as    otherwise provided in                                      separate
                            Sections                                                                                   offense
                         6-2-19  and                                                                                      Not less than
                                                                                            Mandatory fine to be paid  $100.00 nor
                         6-2-20                                                                by a parent, guardian, or  more than
                                                                                               person in control or in    $750.00 per day
                                                                                               charge of a child who has  per violation,
                                                                                               received notice of a       and each day
                                                                                               violation of Chapter 2 of  such violation
                                                                                               Title 6 who knowingly      exists or
                                                                                               permits such child to      continues
                                                                                               again violate a provision  constitutes a
                                                                                               of Chapter 2 of Title 6    separate
                                                                                                                          offense
                         Chapter 3, Animals, except that violations of the following sections
                         or subsections of this Chapter may be compromised and settled by the
                         payment of a fine of $30.00 per violation prior to the initial        $100.00        $250.00     $500.00
                         hearing; Section
                         6-3-1  and Subsections 6-3-2D, E, F, and G
                         Chapter 4, Aircraft                                                   $200.00        $500.00     $750.00
                         Chapter 5, False Alarms, Fines                                        $100.00        $250.00     $500.00
                            Chapter 5, False Alarms,                                        False alarms 1 through 3   No charge
                            Service Charges: The                                            in any calendar year
                            service charge(s) to be                                         False alarms 4 and 5 in    $50.00 service
                            paid to the Village for any                                     any calendar year          charge per
                            false alarm(s) pursuant to                                                                 false alarm
                            Section                                                         False alarms 6 and         $100.00 service
                         6-5-2  shall be as                                                    thereafter in any calendar charge per
                            follows:                                                        year                       false alarm
                       TITLE 7, MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
                       CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offens e   2nd Offens e3rd Offens e4th
                                                                                                              Offense and thereaft er
                         Chapter 1, Traffic Regulations: Any violation of Chapter 1, Traffic
                         Regulations, except any offense of a traffic regulations governing
                         the movement of vehicles, and except for any offense or similar local $100.0 0       $250.0 0$500.0 0$750.00
                         ordinance violations which is a reportable offense under Section 6-
                         204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code
                         Chapter 2, Parking; Stopping; Standing: Any violation of Chapter 2,
                         Parking; Stopping; Standing, except that any violation of Chapter 2
                         may be settled and compromised by the prepayment of a fine of $30.00
                         per violation prior to the initial hearing date (with the exception   $50.00         $50.00      $50.00 $50.00
                         of any violation of Section
                         7-2-11 , Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions, and with the
                         exception of any violation for unauthorized parking in any area
                         designed as a fire lane)
                         Section                                                               $250.0 0 per
                         7-2-11 , Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions, and any violation for day, per       -           -      -
                         unauthorized parking in any area designated as a fire lane            violatio n
                         Chapter 4, Motor Vehicle Licensing                                    $50.00         $100.0 0    $250.0 $750.00
                                                                                                                          0
                         Chapter 6, Motor Vehicle Towing and Impoundment, Mandatory Daily Fine                            $750.0
                         (See Sec.                                                             $200.0 0       $500.0 0    0      $750.00
                         7-6-6 (D) of this Code)
                         Chapter 6, Motor Vehicle Towing and Impoundment, Mandatory            Mandatory administrative fee to
                         Administrative Fee(s) to be paid to the Village for costs incurred by be paid to the Village for any    $250.00
                         the Village relative to any arrest investigation, and/or detention of standard, non- commercial vehicle
                         an offender, which administrative fee may be waived by the Village.   Mandatory administrative fee to
                         (See Section                                                          be paid to the Village for any    $500.00
                         7-6-6 (D) of this Village Code)                                       commercial vehicle and/or
                                                                                               oversized vehicle
                         TITLE 8, BUILDING REGULATIONS
                                                                                                                                 4th
                                                                                                              2nd Offens  3rd    Offense
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offens e   e           Offens and
                                                                                                                          e      thereaft
                                                                                                                                 er
                         Any violation of Title 8 Building Regulations, and each day a         $200.0 0       $500.0 0    $750.0 $750.00
                         violation exists or continues constitutes a separate offense.                                    0
                         TITLE 10, ZONING REGULATIONS
                                                                                                                                 4th
                                                                                                              2nd Offens  3rd    Offense
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offens e   e           Offens and
                                                                                                                          e      thereaft
                                                                                                                                 er
                         Chapter 11, Zoning Code                                               $100.0 0       $500.0 0    $750.0 $750.00
                                                                                                                          0
                         TITLE 11, SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
                                                                                                                                 4th
                                                                                                              2nd Offens  3rd    Offense
                         CHAPTER/SECTION VIOLATED                                              1st Offens e   e           Offens and
                                                                                                                          e      thereaft
                                                                                                                                 er
                         Chapter 11, Subdivision Regulations                                   $200.0 0       $250.0 0    $500.0 $750.00
                                                                                                                          0
TITLE 3, "BUSINESS REGULATIONS"
Chapter 1, "Business Registration"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
Fee for Business         Non-refundable annual fee to be paid to the Village for registration
Registration     3-1-5   of a business.                                                        $25.00 annually
(annual)
Municipal                                                                                      One percent (1%) of the gross receipts
Retailers'       3-2-1   Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax to be paid to the Village.        from sales.
Occupation Tax
Municipal                                                                                      One percent (1%) of the cost price of all
Service          3-2-2   Municipal Service Occupation Tax to be paid to the Village.           tangible personal property transferred by
Occupation Tax                                                                                 a serviceman.
Municipal Use                                                                                  One percent (1%) of the selling price of
Tax              3-2-3   Municipal Use Tax to be paid to the Village.                          tangible personal property. ("Selling
                                                                                               price" as defined in the Use Tax Act.)
Municipal        3-2-4   Municipal Replacement Vehicle Tax to be paid to the Village.          $50.00 per vehicle purchased.
Replacement Tax
Municipal
Cannabis         3-2-5   Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax to be paid to the        Three percent (3%) of the gross receipts
Retailers'               Village.                                                              from sales.
Occupation Tax
Fee for License
for each                                                                                       Fee for each
automatic        3-3-3   Non-refundable annual license fee to be paid to the Village for each  automatic      $100.00 annually, per
amusement device         automatic amusement device                                            amusement      device
(annual/non-                                                                                   device
refundable)
                                                                                               Amusement park
                                                                                               on an area of  $110.00 annually
                                                                                               10 acres or
                                                                                               less
Fee for License                                                                                Amusement park
for Public                                                                                     on an area of
Amusement Park   3-4-3   Non-refundable annual license fee to be paid to the Village for a     more than 10   $330.00 annually
(annual) (Non-           public amusement park                                                 acres but not
refundable)                                                                                    exceeding 30
                                                                                               acres
                                                                                               Amusement park
                                                                                               on an area of  $825.00 annually
                                                                                               more than 30
                                                                                               acres
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               license for no
                                                                                               longer than    $50.00 annual fee
Fee for License                                                                                one (1) year,
to Become an                                                                                   payable in
Auctioneer       3-5-1   Non-refundable annual license fee to be paid to the Village for a     advance
(annual) (Non-   (D)     person to become an auctioneer (Non-refundable)                       Fee for
refundable)                                                                                    license for a
                                                                                               period of 3    $20.00
                                                                                               months,
                                                                                               payable in
                                                                                               advance
                                                                                               Bond in favor
                                                                                               of the Village
                                                                                               ensuring the
Bond for License 3-5-1   Bond to be provided to the Village by each licensed auctioneer        auctioneer's   $1,500.00 Bond
as an Auctioneer (E)                                                                           strict
                                                                                               compliance
                                                                                               with Village
                                                                                               ordinances
                                                                                               Fee for sale
                                                                                               through a
                                                                                               vending
                                                                                               machine of
                                                                                               candy, gum,
                                                                                               novelties,     $50.00 per vending machine
                                                                                               trinkets of
                                                                                               any nature, or
                                                                                               other food,
                                                                                               except
                                                                                               cigarettes or
                                                                                               beverages
                                                                                               Fee for sale
                                                                                               through a
                                                                                               vending
                                                                                               machine of
                                                                                               candy,
                                                                                               sandwiches,
                                                                                               novelties,
                                                                                               trinkets of    $50.00 per vending machine
                                                                                               any nature, or
                                                                                               other food, or
                                                                                               other
                                                                                               articles,
                                                                                               except
                                                                                               cigarettes or
                                                                                               beverages
Fee for                                                                                        Fee for sale
operation of             Non-refundable annual fee to be paid to the Village for operation of  through a
vending machine  3-6-2   a vending machine, per machine (Non-refundable)                       vending
(annual) (Non-                                                                                 machine of
refundable)                                                                                    beverages or
                                                                                               milk in any    $50.00 per vending machine
                                                                                               manner
                                                                                               whatsoever,
                                                                                               either by
                                                                                               container or
                                                                                               by glass or
                                                                                               cup
                                                                                               Fee for sale
                                                                                               through a
                                                                                               vending        $100.00 per vending machine
                                                                                               machine of
                                                                                               cigars or
                                                                                               cigarettes
                                                                                               Fee for sale
                                                                                               through a      $50.00 per vending machine
                                                                                               vending        which is outside of a
                                                                                               machine of     retail establishment
                                                                                               milk or dairy
                                                                                               products
                                                                                               Fee for sale
                                                                                               through a
                                                                                               vending
                                                                                               machine of ice $50.00 per vending machine
                                                                                               by the bag of
                                                                                               ice cubes or
                                                                                               blocks of ice
                                                                                               by bulk
Non-refundable                                                                                 Fee for
fee for                                                                                        application
application for  3-7-4   Non-refundable fee, per location, to be paid to the Village for a     for a massage  $500.00 per location
a massage        (A)     license to operate a massage establishment within the Village.        establishment
establishment                                                                                  license
license
Non-refundable                                                                                 Fee for
fee for                                                                                        application
application for  3-7-4   Non-refundable fee, per location, to be paid to the Village for       for renewal of
renewal of a     (J)     renewal of a massage establishment license.                           a massage      $500.00 per location
massage                                                                                        establishment
establishment                                                                                  license
license
Non-refundable                                                                                 Non-refundable
fee for change   3-7-10  Non-refundable fee, per location, to be paid to the Village for       fee for change
of location of a (A)     change of location of a massage establishment within the Village.     of location of $250.00 per location
massage                                                                                        massage
establishment                                                                                  establishment
Mandatory Fine                                                                                 First Offense  $200.00 per day
for violation of                                                                               Second Offense $400.00 per day
Chapter 7,               Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a finding of guilty for  Third Offense
"Massage         3-7-15  any violation Chapter 7 of Title 3 of this Village Code, and each day and Each
Establishments;          a violation exists or continues constitutes a separate offense.       Offense        $750.00 per day
Services", of                                                                                  Thereafter
Title 3
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               license which
                                                                                               was originally $5.00
Non-refundable           Non-refundable fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of a        $100.00 or
fee for issuance 3-8-2   duplicate liquor license in the event of the lost or destruction of   less
of a duplicate   (G)     the original license.                                                 Fee for
liquor license                                                                                 license which
                                                                                               was originally $10.00
                                                                                               more than
                                                                                               $100.00
                                                                                               Class A Liquor $1,000.00 per license year
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               Class B Liquor $800.00 per license year
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               Class C Liquor $700.00 per license year
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               Class D Liquor $700.00 per license year
Non-refundable                                                                                 License
application and                                                                                Class E Liquor $500.00 per license year
license fee for  3-8-5   Non-refundable application and license fee to be paid to the Village  License
issuance of a            for issuance of the respective liquor license                         Class F Liquor $50.00 per license day
liquor license                                                                                 License
                                                                                               Class G Liquor No fee required
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               Class H Liquor No fee required
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               Class I Liquor $50.00 per license day
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               Class J Liquor No fee required
                                                                                               License
                                                                                               First Offense  $200.00 per day
Mandatory fine           Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Chapter 8 Second Offense $400.00 per day
for violation of 3-8-10  "Liquor Regulations", of Title 3, and each day a violation exists or  Third Offense
Chapter 8 of             continues constitutes a separate offense.                             and Each       $750.00 per day
Title 3                                                                                        Offense
                                                                                               Thereafter
Non-refundable
fee for issuance 3-9A-3  Non-refundable annual fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of a $75.00
of a peddler's           peddler's license.
license (annual)
Non-refundable                                                                                 Five percent (5%) of the holder's gross
service provider 3-10-2  Non-refundable service provider fee to be paid to the Village.        revenue to be paid on a quarterly basis
fee (Paid on a   (B)                                                                           within forty-five (45) days after the
quarterly basis)                                                                               close of the calendar quarter.
                                                                                               One percent (1%) of the holder's gross
                                                                                               revenues or, if greater, the percentage of
Non-refundable                                                                                 gross revenues that incumbent cable
PEG Access       3-10-3  Non-refundable PEG access support fee to be paid to the Village, paid operators pay to the Village or its
Support Fee      (B)     on a quarterly basis.                                                 designee for PEG access support, to be
                                                                                               paid on a quarterly basis within forty-
                                                                                               five (45) days after the close of the
                                                                                               calendar quarter.
                                                                                               Pursuant to the Local Government
Late Fees        3-10-7  All payments which are past due shall be subject to a late fee.       Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act (50 ILCS 45/
                                                                                               1 et seq.) and Title 3, Chapter 17, of
                                                                                               this Village Code.
Penalty for a
material breach  3-10-8  Penalty to be paid to the Village for a material breach of the Cable  Not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
of the Cable and (F)     and Video Protection Law by cable or video providers, which penalty   ($750.00) for each day of a material
Video Protection         shall be in addition to any penalty provided in said Law.             breach.
Law
Mandatory fine           Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Chapter   Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
for violation of 3-10-8  10 "Cable and Video Service Provider and PEG Access Support Fees and  than $750.00 per day per offense, and each
Chapter 10 of    (H)     Consumer Protection", of Title 3 of this Village Code.                day a violation has existed or continues
Title 3                                                                                        to exist constitutes a separate offense.
                                                                                               Annual fee per $100.00
Non-refundable                                                                                 business
fee for issuance 3-11-4  Non-refundable annual fee to be paid to the Village for a taxicab     Annual fee per $20.00
of a taxicab     (A)     license,                                                              driver
license (annual)                                                                               Annual fee per $20.00
                                                                                               taxicab
                                                                                               Annual renewal
                                                                                               fee per        $50.00
Non-refundable                                                                                 business
fee for issuance 3-11-4  Non-refundable annual fee to be paid to the Village for renewal of a  Annual fee per $10.00
of a taxicab     (B)     taxicab license                                                       driver
license (annual)                                                                               Annual renewal
                                                                                               fee per        $10.00
                                                                                               taxicab
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $100.00 per day nor more
for violation of 3-12-4  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Chapter   than $750.00 per day for each violation
Chapter 12 of            12, "Garage Sales", of Title 3.                                       and each day each violation occurs or
Title 13                                                                                       continues constitutes a separate offense.
Tax imposed for
originating in
the Village or   3-13-2  Tax to be paid to the Village for the act or privilege of originating Tax of six percent (6%) of the gross
receiving in the (A) and or receiving in the Village interstate telecommunications by a person charge for telecommunications purchased at
Village          (B)     for telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.           retail from a retailer.
intrastate
telecommunicatio
ns
                                                                                               Annual fee for $175.00 per year
Non-refundable                                                                                 each elevator
annual permit            Non-refundable annual permit fee to be paid to the Village for each   Annual fee for
fee for each     3-14-3  elevator placed in service, which permit fee shall include semi-      a new elevator $87.50 for the remainder of
elevator placed          annual inspections by the Village or its agent.                       placed in      the calendar year, and
in service                                                                                     service after  $175.00 per year thereafter
                                                                                               June 30
Reinspection fee                                                                               $100.00 for each reinspection until the
for reinspection 3-14-4  Mandatory reinspection fee to be paid to the Village for reinspection elevator complies with the applicable code
of an elevator           of an elevator.                                                       provisions and a permits is issued
                                                                                               therefor.
Plan Review Fee          Mandatory fee to be paid to the Village for review of a plan for a
or a new         3-14-5  new elevator                                                          $120.00 per plan
elevator
                                                                                               Fees for refuse and recycling services, as
                                                                                               well as for other related services, to be
                                                                                               paid by each residential unit within the
                                                                                               Village shall be as set forth in the
                                                                                               franchise agreement between the Village
                                                                                               and its current refuse provider.
                                                                                               Effective May  Fee for a 95-gallon toter:
                         The owner and/or occupant of each residential unit within the Village 1, 2025        $26.52 + $3.39 (leaf
                         shall be required to obtain, pay for, and maintain refuse and         through April  vacuuming) = $29.85
Payment for              recycling services.                                                   30, 2026, the  Fee for a 65- gallon toter:
refuse and               Effective May 1, 2025, the Village will bill each residential unit    base rate for  $25.48 + $3.39 (leaf
recycling        3-15-2  the base rate as set forth in the franchise agreement between the     refuse and     vacuuming) = $28.87
services                 Village and its current refuse provider, as well as the cost of leaf  recycling
required                 vacuuming provided by the Village’s franchisee as provided for      services, plus
                         herein.                                                               leaf vacuuming
                                                                                               services, and
                                                                                               the fee for a  Fee for a yard waste
                                                                                               yard waste     sticker: $3.07 per sticker
                                                                                               sticker to be
                                                                                               paid by each
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               unit shall be
                                                                                               as follows:
Non-refundable                                                                                 Initial Annual $500.00
License and      3-15-5  Non-refundable fee to be paid to the Village for a waste hauler       License Fee
Vehicle          (D)     license by any municipal multi- family/commercial solid waste hauler  Renewal of
Registration Fee                                                                               License Fee    $500.00
Required
                                                                                               Aggregate
                                                                                               prize value of No fee required
Non-refundable                                                                                 $50,000.00 or
fee for a raffle 3-16-5  Non-refundable fee to be paid for a license to conduct a raffle       less
license                                                                                        Aggregate
                                                                                               prize value    $25.00 per raffle
                                                                                               over
                                                                                               $50,000.00
Mandatory daily                                                                                First Offense  $200.00 per day
fine for                 Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of     Second Offense $400.00 per day
violation of     3-16-7  Chapter 16 of Title 3, and each day a violation exists or continues   Third offense
Chapter 16 of            constitutes a separate offense.                                       and each       $750.00
Title 3                                                                                        offense
                                                                                               thereafter
                                                                                               Interest on
                                                                                               late payment,  Six percent (6%) per annum
                                                                                               underpayment,  (interest is calculated
                                                                                               or nonpayment  based upon 365 days in a
                                                                                               of any tax due year and the number of days
                                                                                               and owing to   that have elapsed)
                                                                                               the Village
                                                                                               Late filing
                                                                                               penalty for
                                                                                               tax due and
Interest and/or                                                                                owing to the
penalties                                                                                      Village for a  Five percent (5%) of the
assessed for                                                                                   tax return and amount of tax due
late payment,                                                                                  not filed in
failure to pay,          Interest and/or penalties to be paid to the Village for late filing,  the prescribed
and/or failure   3-17-11 failure to pay, and/or failure to file return for any tax due and     manner and
to file tax              owing to the Village.                                                 time
return for any                                                                                 Late payment
tax due and                                                                                    penalty for
owing to the                                                                                   failure to
Village                                                                                        timely pay to  Five percent (5%) of the
                                                                                               the Village    amount of tax due
                                                                                               any tax due
                                                                                               and owing to
                                                                                               the Village
                                                                                               Penalty for
                                                                                               failure to     Twenty-five percent (25%)
                                                                                               file return    of the total tax due for
                                                                                               for any tax    the applicable reporting
                                                                                               due and owing  period
                                                                                               to the Village
Tax imposed
relative to the
sale                     Tax to be paid to the Village by all persons engaged in the business
distribution,    3-18-2  of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or     Five percent (5%) of the gross receipts
supplying, and/          consumption within the Village and not for resale
or furnishing of
gas
Mandatory fine                                                                                 First Offense  $200.00 per day
for failure to                                                                                 Second Offense $400.00 per day
make a return,           Mandatory fine to be imposed upon any taxpayer who is convicted of a
file a                   failing to file a return, filing a fraudulent return or who is        Third Offense
fraudulent       3-18-10 convicted of a violation of Chapter 18 of Title 3, and each day a     and Each
return or                violation exists or continues constitutes a separate offense.         Offense        $750.00 per day
violation of                                                                                   Thereunder
Chapter 18 of
Title 3
                                                                                               KILOWATT HOURS
                                                                                               USED OR        CENTS PER KILOWATT HOUR
                                                                                               CONSUMED IN A
                                                                                               MONTH
Tax imposed                                                                                    First 2,000    0.610
relative to the                                                                                Next 48,000    0.400
use and/or               Tax to be paid to the Village for the use and/or consumption of       Next 50,000    0.360
consumption of   3-19-2  electricity purchased at retail and used or consumed within the       Next 400,000   0.350
electricity              corporate limits of the Village                                       Next 500,000   0.340
purchased at                                                                                   Next 2,000,000 0.320
retail                                                                                         Next 2,000,000 0.315
                                                                                               Next 5,000,000 0.310
                                                                                               Next           0.305
                                                                                               10,000,000
                                                                                               All in excess  0.300
                                                                                               of 20,000,000
Mandatory fine                                                                                 First Offense  $200.00 per day
for failure to                                                                                 Second Offense $400.00 per day
make a return,           Mandatory fine to be imposed upon any person who is convicted of
file a                   failing to file a return, Filing a fraudulent return or who is        Third Offense
fraudulent       3-19-12 convicted of a violation of Chapter 19, of Title 3, and each day a    and Each
return or                violation exists or continues constitutes a separate offense.         Offense        $750.00
violation of                                                                                   Thereafter
Chapter 19 of
Title 3
                                                                                               Prior to
Non-refundable                                                                                 January 1,     $25.00 per terminal
annual user fee  3-20-2  Non-refundable annual user fee to be paid to the Village for each     2022
to be paid for   (D)     video gaming terminal                                                 Beginning      Two hundred fifty dollars
each video                                                                                     January 1,     ($2500.00) per terminal,
gaming terminal                                                                                2022           per calendar year, or
                                                                                                              portion thereof.
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               application    $500.00
                                                                                               fee
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               Annual Permit
                                                                                               fee for a
                                                                                               sidewalk cafe  $150.00 per permit year, or
Non-refundable                                                                                 or other       portion thereof
fees to be paid                                                                                outdoor
for a sidewalk   3-21-1  Non-refundable fees to be paid to the Village for a permit for a      private use
cafe permit or   (D)     sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area.                      area
other outdoor                                                                                  Non-refundable
private use area                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               renewal of a
                                                                                               permit for a   $150.00 per permit year, or
                                                                                               sidewalk cafe  portion thereof
                                                                                               or other
                                                                                               outdoor
                                                                                               private use
                                                                                               are
TITLE 4, "PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
Chapter 1, "Nuisances"
                                                                                               First Offense  $200.00 per day
Mandatory fine           Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a finding of guilty of   Second Offense $400.00 per day
for violation of 4-1-3   or liable for a violation of Chapter 1 of Title 4, and each day an    Third Offense
Chapter 1 of             offense exists or continues constitutes a separate offense.           and Each       $750.00 per day
Title 4                                                                                        Offense
                                                                                               Thereafter
                                                                                                              Not less than $200.00 per
                                                                                               Mandatory fine day nor more than $750.00
                                                                                               for any        per day per violation, and
                                                                                               violation of   each day each $750.00
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of   violation exists or
                                                                                               Title 4        continues constitutes a
                                                                                                              separate offense.
                                                                                               CHRONIC        Not less than $200.00 per
                                                                                               NUISANCE       day nor more than $750.00
                                                                                               PROPERTY:      per day per violation, and
                                                                                               Mandatory fine each day such chronic
                                                                                               for any        nuisance property exists or
                                                                                               violation of   continues without
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of   implementation of a
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Title 4 with   remedial plan approved by
for violation of         Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a finding of guilty or   respect to a   the Chief of Police
Chapter 2 of     4-2-3   liable or for a violation of Chapter 2 of Title 4                     chronic        constitutes a separate
Title 4                                                                                        nuisance       offense.
                                                                                               property
                                                                                               Mandatory fine
                                                                                               for any
                                                                                               violation of
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of   Not less than $500.00 per
                                                                                               Title 4 by any day nor more than $750.00
                                                                                               person who has per day per violation, and
                                                                                               been found     each day each violation
                                                                                               guilty or      exists or continues
                                                                                               liable of any  constitutes a separate
                                                                                               violation of   offense.
                                                                                               this chapter
                                                                                               within the
                                                                                               preceding 365
                                                                                               days
                         Any person convicted of violating any provision of Chapter 4 of Title Fine of not less than $200.00 per day per
Restitution and          4 of this Village Code shall make restitution to the Village for      offense, nor more than $750.00 per day per
Mandatory Fine   4-4-4   costs incurred by the Village and pay a mandatory fine for such       offense, plus restitution. Each day an
                         violation.                                                            offense exists or continues constitutes a
                                                                                               separate offense.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 First Offense  $200.00 per day
for violation of                                                                               Second Offense $400.00 per day
the Village's            Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village by anyone convicted of       Third Offense
Watershed        4-6-1   violating the Village's watershed development and/or site development and Each
Development and/         regulations                                                           Offense        $750.00 per day
or Site                                                                                        Thereafter
Regulations
                                                                                               Mandatory fine
                                                                                               for a          Not less than $100.00 per
                                                                                               violation of   day nor more than $750.00
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of   per day per violation, and
                                                                                               Title 4,       each day each violation
                                                                                               except as      exists or continues
                                                                                               otherwise      constitutes a separate
                                                                                               provided in    offense
                                                                                               Section
                                                                                               4-10-8
                                                                                                              For the first violation:
                                                                                                              Not less than $100.00 per
                                                                                                              day per violation and each
                                                                                               Mandatory fine day a violation exists or
                                                                                               for smoking in continues constitutes a
                                                                                               an area where  separate offense
                                                                                               smoking is     For each subsequent
                                                                                               prohibited     violation: Not less than
                                                                                               under Chapter  $200.00 per day per
                                                                                               10             violation, and each day
                                                                                                              each violation exists or
                                                                                                              continues constitutes a
                                                                                                              separate offense
                                                                                               Mandatory fine For the first violation:
                                                                                               for a person   Not less than $250.00 per
                                                                                               who owns,      day each day a violation
                                                                                               operates, or   exists or continues
Mandatory fine                                                                                 otherwise      constitutes separate
for violation of 4-10-8  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for conviction of a          controls a     offense.
Chapter 10 of            violation of Chapter 10 of Title 4                                    public place
Title 4                                                                                        or place of
                                                                                               employment
                                                                                               that is in
                                                                                               violation of
                                                                                               Chapter 10.
                                                                                               [NOTE: These
                                                                                               fines shall
                                                                                               not apply to
                                                                                               any such
                                                                                               person who     For a violation of Chapter
                                                                                               violates any   10 within one year after
                                                                                               provision of   the first violation: Not
                                                                                               this Chapter   less than $500.00 per day
                                                                                               10 more than   and each day a violation
                                                                                               twice during   exists or continues
                                                                                               any one year   constitutes a separate
                                                                                               period, in     offense.
                                                                                               which event,
                                                                                               the provisions
                                                                                               of the Smoke-
                                                                                               Free Illinois
                                                                                               Act,
                                                                                               including, but
                                                                                               not limited to
                                                                                               the penalties
                                                                                               therein, shall
                                                                                               be applicable
                                                                                               and control.]
Mandatory fines                                                                                               Not less than $200.00 per
for violation of                                                                               Mandatory fine day nor more than $750.00
Chapter 11,                                                                                    for a          per day per violation, and
"Hazardous       4-11-8  Mandatory fines to be paid to the Village for violation of Chapter 11 violation of   each day each violation
Material Spiller (B)     of Title 4                                                            Chapter 11, of exists or continues
Pays                                                                                           Title 4        constitutes a separate
Regulations", of                                                                                              offense.
Title 4
                                                                                                              Cost as determined by the
                                                                                               Cost of        responding agency, but not
                                                                                               vehicle(s)     less than $125.00 per hour
                                                                                                              per vehicle
                                                                                                              Cost of all personnel
                                                                                                              including overtime, as
                                                                                                              determined by the village
Cost of removal                                                                                Cost of all    or any responding agency
and/or remedial                                                                                personnel      incurred as a result of the
action when                                                                                                   removal or remedial action,
rendered by the  4-11-8  Costs to be reimbursed to the Village for removal or any remedial                    but not less than $35.00
Village, any     (C)     action when rendered by the Village, by any responding agency, and/or                per hour
responding               its respective agent                                                  Cost of all materials and equipment used,
agency, and/or                                                                                 expended, depleted, destroyed or removed
its respective                                                                                 from service in accordance with federal
agent                                                                                          state county, or local ordinance as a
                                                                                               result of the mitigation containment
                                                                                               operations or at the request of the
                                                                                               Village or any responding agency
                                                                                               Cost of service and/or goods provided by a
                                                                                               private or public entity which are used,
                                                                                               expended, depleted or destroyed as a
                                                                                               result of the response.
                                                                                               Not less than $100.00 per day nor more
                                                                                               than $750.00 per day per violation, and
Mandatory fine                                                                                 each day each violation exists or
for violation of 4-12-6  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village upon conviction of any       continues shall be considered a separate
Chapter 12 of            violation of Chapter 12 of Title 4.                                   offense.
Title 4                                                                                        Such fine shall be in addition to any
                                                                                               other sanctions and/or remedies provided
                                                                                               by Illinois statute(s).
TITLE 5, "PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND UTILITIES"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               Deposit and
                                                                                               fee for an
                                                                                               opening or
                                                                                               excavation or  $750.00
                                                                                               tunnel under
                                                                                               an improved
                                                                                               street
                                                                                               Deposit and
Deposit and non-                                                                               fee for an
refundable                                                                                     opening,
permit fee                                                                                     excavation or  $250.00
required for     5-1-1   Deposit and/or non- refundable permit fee required to be paid to the  tunnel in or
openings or      (C)     Village for any opening(s) or excavation(s) or tunnel(s) in or under  under an
excavations or           a street within the Village                                           unimproved or
tunnels in or                                                                                  gravel street
under a street                                                                                 Amount
                                                                                               retained by
                                                                                               the Village as
                                                                                               a non-
                                                                                               refundable     $50.00
                                                                                               permit fee for
                                                                                               an opening,
                                                                                               excavation, or
                                                                                               tunnel under a
                                                                                               street
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $100.00 per day nor more
for a violation  5-1-1   Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Chapter 1 than $750.00 per day per violation, and
of Chapter 1 of  (F)     of Title 5, except as otherwise provided herein.                      each day that a violation exists or
Title 5                                                                                        continues constitutes a separate offense.
                                                                                               Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
                         Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for cutting, felling,        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
Mandatory fine           boxing, boring, destroying or carrying away any tree or sapling,      each day that a violation exists or
for failure to   5-1-4   standing, growing upon, along or adjacent to any highway, street or   continues constitutes a separate offense,
obtain permit            alley within the village without having fist obtained a permit        and each tree removed in violation of this
                         therefor from the village                                             section shall be considered a separate
                                                                                               offense.
Application and          Permit Required: Prior to removal, relocation, or replacement of any
Permit for       5-1-4.1 tree(s) within the Village an application for such activity must be   There is no fee for a tree removal permit.
Removal of Tree  (F)     submitted to the Village for approval
(s)
Mandatory fine
for violation of                                                                               Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
any tree removal                                                                               than $750.00 per day per violation, and
permit and/or    5-1-4.1 Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for any violation of any     each day that a violation exists or
any other        (L)     tree removal permit and/or any other provision of Section             continues constitutes a separate offense,
provision of             5-1-4  of this Village Code.                                          and each tree removed in violation of
Section                                                                                        Section 5-1-4 of this Village Code shall
5-1-4  of this                                                                                 be considered a separate offense.
Village Code
                         Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for placing any object, such Not less than $100.00 per day nor more
Mandatory fine           as but not limited to, a newspaper, thing, stone, garbage, offal,     than $750.00 per day per offense, and each
for violation of 5.1.7.1 cigar or cigarette butt, boulder, landscape timber, or any other      day an offense occurs or continues
Section 5.1.7.1          thing, on a public right-of-way without a permit issued by the        constitutes a separate offense.
                         Village to do so.
Mandatory fine           Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for depositing any soil,     Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
for depositing   5-1-11  aggregate, mud, dirt, dust, plowed, blown, and/or shoveled snow,      than $750.00 per day per violation, and
substance(s) on          debris and/or any other substance on any street, road, or highway     each day that a violation exists or
street(s)                                                                                      continues constitutes a separate offense.
Mandatory daily                                                                                For Residents  No boat launch pass
fee for non-                                                                                   of the Village required.
residents for            Lehmann Park: Mandatory daily fee to be paid to the Village by non-
Launching a      5-2-14  residents of the Village for a boat launch pass for launch of a                      $100.00 per day boat launch
Motorized Boat   (E)(4)  motorized board or other motorized watercraft at Lehmann Park. No     For Non-       pass required for launch of
or other                 boat launch fee shall be required to be paid for launch of a non-     Residents:     a motorized boat or other
Motorized                motorized watercraft, such as a paddle board, kayak, or canoe.                       motorized watercraft at
Watercraft at                                                                                                 Lehmann Park
Lehmann Park
                                                                                               Fee to be paid
                                                                                               by Village
                                                                                               residents for  $10.00 annually
                                                                                               boat launch
Mandatory annual                                                                               access key at
fee for a boat           Glacier Park: Mandatory annual fee to be paid to the Village by both  Glacier Park
launch access    5-2-15  residents and non- residents of the Village for a boat launch access  Fee to be paid
key at Glacier           key at Glacier Park.                                                  by non-
Park                                                                                           residents of
                                                                                               the Village    $500.00 annually
                                                                                               for boat
                                                                                               launch access
                                                                                               key at Glacier
                                                                                               Park
                                                                                                              Not less than $100.00 nor
                                                                                                              more than $750.00 per day,
                                                                                                              per offense, and each day
                                                                                               FIRST OFFENSE: an offense occurs or
                                                                                               Mandatory      continues constitutes a
                                                                                               daily fine for separate offense. However,
                                                                                               a violation of a first offense may be
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of   settled prior to an initial
Mandatory daily                                                                                Title 5        court date by payment to
fine for                 Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for any violation of                  the Village by ash or
violation of     5-2-16  Chapter 2 of Title 5 of this Village Code, except as otherwise                       certified funds of the
Chapter 2 of             specifically set forth herein.                                                       amount of $50.00.
Title 5                                                                                                       Not less than $250.00 nor
                                                                                               SECOND OR      more than $750.00 per day,
                                                                                               SUBSEQUENT     per offense, and each day
                                                                                               OFFENSE WITHIN an offense occurs or
                                                                                               ANY 12 MONTH   continues constitutes a
                                                                                               PERIOD:        separate offense. No
                                                                                               Mandatory fine settlement amount is
                                                                                                              applicable for any such
                                                                                                              offense.
Mandatory daily                                                                                               Not less than $200.00 per
fine for                                                                                                      day nor more than $750.00
violation of     5-4-1   Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of     Mandatory      per day, per violation, and
Chapter 4 of     (D)     Chapter 4 of Title 5.                                                 daily fine     each day a violation occurs
Title 5                                                                                                       or continues constitutes a
                                                                                                              separate offense.
Application for                                                                                There is no application fee, however, an
Permit for                                                                                     inspection fee as set forth in Section
Connection to    5-4-3   Application is required to be submitted to the Village for a permit   5-4-3 (C) shall accompany each
the Village's    (B)     for any connection to the Village's water main(s) or sewer main(s)    application. Such inspection fee shall be
Waterworks                                                                                     in addition to the required connection
System or                                                                                      fee.
Sewerage System
                                                                                               Single-family
                                                                                               sewer          $100.00
                                                                                               connection
                                                                                               All other
                                                                                               sewer
                                                                                               connections,
                                                                                               including      $100.00 per unit, plus
                                                                                               duplex,        Village Engineer's
                                                                                               multiple-unit  Inspection costs
Inspection Fee                                                                                 dwelling,
for Inspection                                                                                 condominium
of Connection to         Each connection to the Village's Waterworks System or Sewerage System and commercial
the Village's    5-4-3   shall be inspected by the Village Engineer and an inspection fee paid buildings
Waterworks       (C)     to the Village by the applicant for each inspection.                  Single-family
System or                                                                                      water          $100.00
Sewerage System                                                                                connection
                                                                                               All other
                                                                                               water
                                                                                               connections
                                                                                               including      $100.00 per unit, plus
                                                                                               duplex,        Village Engineer's
                                                                                               multiple-unit  inspection costs
                                                                                               dwelling,
                                                                                               condominium
                                                                                               and commercial
                                                                                               buildings
Bond Required
for Any
Connection to    5-4-3   The applicant or a licensed plumber must provide to the village a
the Village's    (D)     bond for the respective work.                                         Amount of bond shall be $10,000.00.
Waterworks
System or
Sewerage System
                                                                                               Water Service  New Constructi on Meter
                                                                                               Size (in       Connectio n FeeReplacemen t
                                                                                               inches)        Fee for Frozen, Missing,
                                                                                                              Broken Water Meter
                                                                                               MXU            Included    $200.00
                                                                                                              below
                                                                                               *Ally meters
Payment for      5-4-3   The applicant shall pay to the Village an additional charge for the   (5/8, 3/4, and $900.00     $550.00
Water Meter and  (E)     required water meter and fitting(s).                                  1 inch)
Fitting(s)                                                                                     5/8 and 3/     $600.00     $200.00
                                                                                               4 inch
                                                                                               1 inch         $650.00     $250.00
                                                                                               1 1/2 inch     $2,100.00   $1,500.00
                                                                                               2 inches       $2,400.00   $1,700.00
                                                                                               3 inches       $2,800.00   $2,100.00
                                                                                               4 inches       $4,500.00   $3,500.00
                                                                                               6 inches       $7,400.00   $6,000.00
                                                                                               Single-Family Residential (water tap- on
                                                                                               fee)$4,300.00
                                                                                               Multi-Family Residential   $4,300.00 per
                                                                                               served by one water meter  dwelling unit
                                                                                               (water tap-on fee)
                                                                                               Multi-Family Residential
                                                                                               served by more than one    $4,300.00 per
                                                                                               water meter (water tap-on  dwelling unit
                                                                                               fee)
                                                                                               Water tap-on fee for other
                                                                                               connections such as, but   $4,300.00
                                                                                               not limited to,            minimum fee
                                                                                               commercial, institutional, times the
                                                                                               or industrial as           residential
Payment for                                                                                    determined by the Village  equivalent
Connection                                                                                     Engineer. [See Section
Charge (i.e.             Charges for Connection to the Village's Waterworks System and to the  5-4-3 (F)]
"water           5-4-3   Village's Sewerage System ("water connection tap-on fee" or "sewer    If developer installs a
connection tap-  (F)     connection tap-on fee") required to be paid by the applicant at the   separate well to serve a   Fee may be
on fee" or               time a building permit or connection permit is issued.                development and the        reduced by
"sewer                                                                                         developer transfers title  $1,800.00
connection tap-                                                                                to such well to the
on fee")                                                                                       Village
                                                                                               Single-Family Residential
                                                                                               (required sewer tap-on     $2,200.00
                                                                                               fees)
                                                                                               Multi-Family Residential   $2,200.00 plus
                                                                                               (required sewer tap-on     $500.00 per
                                                                                               fees)                      dwelling unit
                                                                                               Sewer tap-on fee for other
                                                                                               connects such as, but not  $2,200.00
                                                                                               limited to, commercial     minimum fee
                                                                                               institutional, or          times the
                                                                                               industrial, as determined  residential
                                                                                               by the Village Engineer.   equivalent
                                                                                               [See Section
                                                                                               5-4-3 (F)]
                         Supplementary connection fee to be paid to the Village prior to the   3 or more      100% residential customer
Supplementary            issuance of a building permit for every dwelling, business, industry, bedrooms       equivalent
Connection Fee   5-4-3.2 and institution connection to the Village's southern line sewer       2 bedrooms     80% residential customer
(Southern Line           system and discharging directly or indirectly into the county's                      equivalent
Sewer)                   collector system. These fees are in addition to any other connections 1 bedroom      75% residential customer
                         fees or other charges.                                                               equivalent
                         Supplementary connection fee to be paid to the Village prior to the   3 or more      100% residential customer
Supplementary            issuance of a building permit for every dwelling, business, industry, bedrooms       equivalent
Connection Fee   5-4-3.4 and institution connecting to the Village's northern line sewer       2 bedrooms     80% residential customer
(Northern Line           system and discharging directly or indirectly into the county's                      equivalent
Sewer)                   collector system. These fees are in addition to any other connection  1 bedroom      75% residential customer
                         fees or other charges.                                                               equivalent
                         For all new construction and major remodeling serviced by the Village
Payment for      5-4-9.1 water system, water services connected to the Village water system    Costs are subject to change periodically
Water Meter(s)   (B)     shall be metered and the property owner or permit holder shall be     as determined by the Village
                         jointly and severally responsible for payment of the cost of all      Administrator.
                         meter(s) and accessories supplied by the Village.
Inspection of            The property owner and the permit holder are jointly and severally    $100.00 per inspection after the initial
Installation of  5-4-9.1 responsible for payment of the cost of any additional inspection(s)   inspection. (The cost of the initial
Water Meter      (C)     after the initial inspection                                          inspection is included in the fee(s)
                                                                                               otherwise paid to the Village.)
                                                                                                              $5.51 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2015        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $16.53 per month
                                                                                                              $6.89 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2016        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $20.67 per month
                                                                                                              $8.45 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2017        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $25.35 per month
                                                                                                              $8.45 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2018        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $25.35 per month
                                                                                                              $9.04 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2019        minimum monthly charge of
Water Service                                                                                                 $27.12 per month
Rates to be Paid                                                                                              $9.22 per 1,000 gallons of
for Use of       5-4A-3  Water service charges to be paid to the Village each month for use of Effective May  metered water usage with a
Village Combined (A)     the Village combined waterworks and sewerage system.                  1, 2020        minimum monthly charge of
Waterworks and                                                                                                $27.66 per month
Sewerage System                                                                                               $9.41 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2021        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $28.22 per month
                                                                                                              $9.69 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2022        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $29.06 per month
                                                                                                              $9.88 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2023        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $29.64 per month
                                                                                                              $10.42 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2024        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $31.26
                                                                                                              $10.84 per 1,000 gallons of
                                                                                               Effective May  metered water usage, with a
                                                                                               1, 2025        minimum monthly charge of
                                                                                                              $32.52
                                                                                                              $6.47 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2015        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charges of $9.71
                                                                                                              per month
                                                                                                              $6.52 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2016        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $9.78 per
                                                                                                              month
                                                                                                              $6.58 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2017        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $9.87 per
                                                                                                              month
                                                                                                              $6.58 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2018        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge $9.87 per
                                                                                                              month
                                                                                                              $7.04 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2019        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $10.56
                                                                                                              per month
                                                                                                              $7.18 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2020        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $10.77
Sewer Service                                                                                                 per month
Rates to be Paid                                                                                              $7.32 for each 1,000
for Use of       5-4A-3  Sewer service charges to be paid the Village each month for use of    Effective May  gallons of metered water
Village Combined (B)     the Village combined waterworks and sewerage system.                  1, 2021        usage, with a minimum
Waterworks and                                                                                                monthly charge of $10.99
Sewerage System                                                                                               per month
                                                                                                              $7.54 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2022        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $11.32
                                                                                                              per month
                                                                                                              $7.70 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2023        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $11.54
                                                                                                              per month
                                                                                                              $7.77 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2024        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $11.66
                                                                                                              per month
                                                                                                              $8.24 for each 1,000
                                                                                               Effective May  gallons of metered water
                                                                                               1, 2025        usage, with a minimum
                                                                                                              monthly charge of $12.36
                                                                                                              per month
                                                                                               Relative to sewer service: Notwithstanding
                                                                                               the foregoing, the monthly charge during
                                                                                               May 15 to September 15 for residential
                                                                                               customers of the combined system shall not
                                                                                               exceed 110% of the metered water usage of
                                                                                               the average monthly usage for the
                                                                                               preceding period between November 1 and
                                                                                               April 30 multiplied by the then applicable
                                                                                               sewer service rate for each 1,000 gallons.
Mandatory daily          Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for failure to permit  Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
fine for failure 5-4A-3  or allow the installation of a water meter in compliance with the     than $750.00 per day per violation, and
to comply with   (B)     Village Code after 21 days written notice to do so.                   each day a violation exists or continues
                                                                                               constitutes a separate offense.
Payment of               Each user of the Village's sanitary sewer system of those portions of Monthly user surcharge fee of $1.50 per
Regional I & I   5-4A-3  the Village's combined system tributary to the Lake County Northwest  Residential Customer Equivalent based upon
Surcharge        (C)     Regional Sanitary Sewer System shall pay to the Village a monthly     metered water usage.
                         user surcharge fee.
Payment of fee                                                                                 Rate established by Ordinance of the Board
by Specialized   5-4A-3  Payment required by any specialized business using an excess quantity of Trustees of the Village or by the
Business Users   (E)     of water for resale commodity.                                        Village Administrator, as the Village
                                                                                               Board's designee, from time to time.
Fee for late     5-4A-4  Late fee to be added to a bill if payment of the full amount of a     Late fee of 10% of the full amount of the
payment of water (D)     bill is not made within the prescribed period.                        bill.
and sewer bill
Reconnection Fee
is Service       5-4A-6  Fee to be paid to the Village for reconnection of water service if    $100.00 reconnection fee for each line
Disconnected     (B)     service has been disconnected due to non-payment of Village services.
(Water Service)
                                                                                               If the service is disconnected or shut off
                                                                                               by the Village, water service may be
Payment of Shut-                                                                               reinstated only after all past due bills
Off Fee and              Fee to be paid to the Village for reconnection of water service for   due to the sanitary sewer service provider
Disconnection    5-4A-7  sanitary sewer services, if sanitary sewer service is provided by a   have been paid, and payment is made to the
Fee (Sewer               service other than the Village                                        Village for both a shut- off fee in the
Service)                                                                                       amount of $100.00 for each line and a
                                                                                               water service reconnection fee of $100.00
                                                                                               for each line.
                                                                                               Use of Village water by means of a Village
                                                                                               fire hydrant and/or through the fill
                                                                                               station at the Village's Public Works
                                                                                               facility requires the payment of a non-
                                                                                               refundable deposit of $300.00 per day,
                                                                                               plus the deposit of an additional
Payment for Use                                                                                $3,000.00 water usage fee. Water usage
of Village Water                                                                               shall be charged at the then current water
Through Village                                                                                rate per 1,000 gallons of water usage. Any
Fire Hydrants            Fee to be paid to the Village by persons and/or entities for use of   portion of the $3,000.00 water usage fee
and/or Through   5-4A-10 Village water through a Village fire hydrant and/or through the fill  not used shall be refunded to the person
the Fill Station         station at the Village's Public Works facility.                       or entity depositing such funds. Any
at the Village's                                                                               amount of water used which is in excess of
Public Works                                                                                   such $3,00.00 water usage deposit shall be
Facility                                                                                       the responsibility of the user to promptly
                                                                                               pay to the Village. All fill-ups shall
                                                                                               occur at the designated fill station
                                                                                               located at the Village of Lake Villa
                                                                                               Public Works facility unless another
                                                                                               location for such purpose is otherwise
                                                                                               approved in advance in writing by the
                                                                                               Village.
Fee(s) to be             Any facility that requires the Lake Villa Department of Public Works
paid Relative to         to inspect such facility shall receive one inspection at no charge in $150.00 per inspection after the initial
the Discharge of 5-4B-8  each calendar year and shall be required to pay the Village for each  inspection each year.
Fats, Oil and            subsequent inspection in the respective calendar year.
Grease
                                                                                               Fee for the required permit shall be
Permit Fee for                                                                                 determined by the Village Board and shall
Construction of          Permit fee to be paid to the Village prior to commencement of         be paid to the Village at the time the
a Private Sewage 5-5-2   construction of a private sewage disposal system.                     application is submitted to the Village.
Disposal System                                                                                The applicant is also responsible to pay
                                                                                               all inspection fee(s) and any engineering
                                                                                               fees incurred by the Village.
Annual
Administrative           Administrative fee to be paid to the Village on an annual basis for
Fee for Cross-   5-7-4   certification of a cross- connection control device                   $12.95 per year
Connection
Control Devices
Fee for
Reconnection of  5-7-7   Fee to be paid to the Village for reconnection of water service.      $150.00 reconnection fee.
Water Service
Fee for Clean-Up         Fee to be paid to the Village for clean-up of a potable water supply  All out-of-pocket costs for such a clean-
of Water Supply  5-7-8   system.                                                               up incurred by the Village.
System
Fee for                  Fee to be paid to the Village for reconnection to the Village water
Reconnection of  5-7A-5  service.                                                              $150.00 reconnection fee.
Water Service
Fee for
application for
construction of  5-10-4  Application fee to be paid to the Village which fee must accompany an
utility          (F)     application for construction in a Village right-of-way.               $500.00
facilities in
Village right-
of- way
                                                                                               Security fund in an amount determined by
                                                                                               the Village Administrator to be
                                                                                               established by an applicant for
Security fund to                                                                               construction of utility facilities in a
be established                                                                                 Village right-of-way which shall be an
for construction         A security fund to be paid to and held by the Village for right-of-   amount sufficient to provide for the cost
of utility       5-10-10 way restoration as a result of any construction of utility facilities of restoring the Village right-of way to
facilities in    (C)     in a Village right-of-way                                             at least as good a condition as that which
Village right-                                                                                 existed prior to the construction, which
of- way                                                                                        security fund may be required to be
                                                                                               replenished from time to time by the
                                                                                               applicant. The initial deposit to such
                                                                                               security fund by the applicant shall not
                                                                                               be less than $5,000.00.
                                                                                               Application
                                                                                               fee to
                                                                                               collocate up
                                                                                               to five (5)
                                                                                               separate small
                                                                                               wireless
                                                                                               facilities on
                                                                                               or adjacent to
                                                                                               a wireless
                                                                                               support
                                                                                               structure      $1,000.00
                                                                                               within a
                                                                                               public right-
                                                                                               of- way or on
                                                                                               or adjacent to
                                                                                               a Village
                                                                                               utility pole
                                                                                               or Village
                                                                                               wireless
                                                                                               support
Fee for                  Application fee to be paid to the Village which fee must accompany an structure.
application for          application for construction of a small wireless facility within a    Application
construction of  5-10-   Village right-of-way. Such fee does not apply to routine maintenance  fee for each
a small wireless 22-4    of existing small wireless facilities and other activity as provided  small wireless
facility within          in Section                                                            facility
a Village right-         5-10-22-4 (D) of this Village Code.                                   addressed in
of- way                                                                                        an application
                                                                                               to collocate
                                                                                               more than five
                                                                                               (5) separate
                                                                                               small wireless
                                                                                               facilities on
                                                                                               or adjacent to $200.00 for each small
                                                                                               existing       wireless facility, for more
                                                                                               utility poles  than five (5) separate
                                                                                               or on or       facilities
                                                                                               adjacent to a
                                                                                               wireless
                                                                                               support
                                                                                               structure or
                                                                                               on or adjacent
                                                                                               to a Village
                                                                                               utility pole
                                                                                               or Village
                                                                                               wireless
                                                                                               support
                                                                                               structure
                         Annual recurring rate to be paid to the village on or before January
Annual Recurring 5-10-   1 of each year for each fiscal year for each small wireless facility  Annual         $200.00 for each small
Rate             22-7    located within the Village, unless such fee is modified by a final    recurring rate wireless facility
                         order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
for a violation          Mandatory to be paid to the Village for conviction of a violation of  than $750.00 per day per violation, and
of Chapter 10 of 5-10-23 Chapter 10 of Title 5 of this Village Code                            each day each violation exists or
Title 5 of this                                                                                continues constitutes a separate offense.
Village Code
TITLE 6, "POLICE REGULATIONS"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               Mandatory fine FIRST OFFENSE: $50.00 and/
                                                                                               for conviction or community service
                                                                                               of a person
                                                                                               between the    SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT
                                                                                               age of 10      OFFENSE: $100.00 and/or
                                                                                               years of age   community service
                                                                                               and under 18
                                                                                               years of age
                                                                                               For any person FIRST OFFENSE: $50.00 and/
Mandatory fine                                                                                 under the age  or community service
for violation of                                                                               of 20 years
Section          6-2-19  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Section   who is
6-2-19 ,         (C)     6-22-19 , "Truancy"                                                   convicted of a
"Truancy"                                                                                      violation of
                                                                                               Section
                                                                                               6-2-19  of     SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT
                                                                                               this Village   OFFENSE: $100.00 and/or
                                                                                               Code,          community service
                                                                                               mandatory fine
                                                                                               to be paid by
                                                                                               the parent,
                                                                                               legal guardian
                                                                                               or custodian
                                                                                               of such person
                                                                                               Mandatory fine FIRST OFFENSE: Not less
                                                                                               for conviction than $250.00 nor more than
                                                                                               of a first     $750.00
                                                                                               offense
                                                                                               Mandatory fine
Mandatory fine                                                                                 for conviction SECOND OFFENSE: Not less
for violation of                                                                               of a second    than $500.00, nor more than
Section          6-2-20  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for violation of Section     offense within $750.00
6-2-20 , "Social (E)     6-2-20 , "Social Hosting Regulations"                                 a 12 month
Hosting                                                                                        period
Regulations"                                                                                   Mandatory fine
                                                                                               for conviction
                                                                                               of a third or  THIRD OR SUBSEQUENT
                                                                                               subsequent     OFFENSE: Not less than
                                                                                               offense within $750.00
                                                                                               a 12 month
                                                                                               period
                                                                                               Mandatory fine
                                                                                               for conviction
                                                                                               of a violation Not less than $100.00 nor
                                                                                               of Chapter 2   more than $750.00 per day
                                                                                               of Title 6,    per violation, and each day
                                                                                               except as      such violation exists or
                                                                                               otherwise      continues constitutes a
                                                                                               provided in    separate offense
                                                                                               Sections
                                                                                               6-2-19  and
                                                                                               6-2-20  hereof
                                                                                               Mandatory fine
                                                                                               to be paid by
Mandatory fine                                                                                 a parent,
for violation of         Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for conviction of a          guardian, or
Chapter 2 of     6-2-21  violation of Chapter 2 of Title 6                                     person in
Title 6                                                                                        control or in
                                                                                               charge of a
                                                                                               child who has  Not less than $100.00 nor
                                                                                               received       more than $750.00 per day
                                                                                               notice of a    per violation, and each day
                                                                                               violation of   such violation exists or
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of   continues constitutes a
                                                                                               Title 6 who    separate offense
                                                                                               knowingly
                                                                                               permits such
                                                                                               child to again
                                                                                               violate a
                                                                                               provision of
                                                                                               Chapter 2 of
                                                                                               Title 6
                                                                                               First three
                                                                                               (3) false      No charge.
                                                                                               alarms in a
                                                                                               calendar year
                                                                                               Fee for 4th
                         Service charge to be paid to the Village for the fourth and each      false alarm in $50.00
Service Charge   6-5-2   subsequent false alarm in any calendar year. (Three (3) false alarms  a calendar
for False Alarm          are without charge in any calendar year.)                             year
                                                                                               Fee for 5th
                                                                                               and each
                                                                                               subsequent     $100.00
                                                                                               false alarm in
                                                                                               a calendar
                                                                                               year
Mandatory Daily
Fine(s) for              Each false alarm exceeding three (3) false alarms in any calendar     Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
Violation of     6-5-3   year shall constitute a violation of Chapter 5 of title 6 of this     than $750.00 per day, and each day a
Chapter 5,               Village Code and is subject to mandatory daily fines.                 violation exists or continues constitutes
"False Alarms",                                                                                a separate offense.
of Title 6
Fee for                  Fee required to be paid to the Village for emergency lock-out service $50.00 [See Section
emergency lock-  6-6-2   for entry into a locked vehicle by the Lake Villa Police Department   6-6-2  for circumstances where this fee
out service                                                                                    will not be imposed.]
Fee for                  Fee required to be paid to the Village for the provision of
fingerprinting   6-6-3   fingerprinting services                                               $50.00 per request
services
TITLE 7, "MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC"
Chapter 2, "Parking, Stopping, Standing"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               $50.00 per day per offense, and each day
                                                                                               each violation exists or continues
Mandatory daily                                                                                constitutes a separate offense. Except for
fine for                                                                                       fines imposed for violation of Section
violation of     7-2-1                                                                         7-2-11 , "Handicapped Parking Area
Chapter 2 of     (A) and Mandatory fine for violation of Chapter 2 of Title 7, except as       Restrictions", and violations related to
Title 7, except  7-2-13  otherwise specifically provided therein.                              parking in a fire lane, fines imposed
as otherwise                                                                                   under Chapter 2 of Title 7 may be
specifically                                                                                   compromised and settled by the payment to
provided therein                                                                               the Village of a fine of $30.00 per
                                                                                               violation prior to the initial court date
                                                                                               or hearing.
Mandatory fine
for unauthorized 7-2-1                                                                         $250.00 per violation, and each day a
parking in a     (E) and Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for parking in a handicapped violation exists or continues constitutes
handicapped      7-2-3   parking area or in a fire lane.                                       a separate offense.
parking area or
in a fire lane
Payment of costs
for towing and/          In addition to the payment of any fines imposed for a violation of    All towing and/or storage fees shall be
or storage of    7-2-1   Chapter 2 of Title 7, the owner of any vehicle which has been towed   paid to the respective storage facility,
vehicle in       (G)     pursuant to the authorization of a sworn officer of the Lake Villa    and any expenses incurred by the Village
addition to              Police Department is required to pay any and all towing and/or        in removing and/or storing said vehicle
payment of any           storage fees.                                                         shall be paid to the Village.
fines
                                                                                               Daily fee for
                                                                                               parking a
                                                                                               vehicle in the
                                                                                               Metra station
                                                                                               parking lot    $1.75 per day, per vehicle
                                                                                               between the
                                                                                               hours of 5:00
                                                                                               a.m. and 11:00
                                                                                               a.m. on the
                                                                                               same day
                                                                                               No fee shall
                                                                                               be required to
                                                                                               be paid for
                                                                                               parking a
                                                                                               vehicle in the
                                                                                               Metra station
                                                                                               parking lot
                                                                                               between the
                                                                                               hours of 11:01
                                                                                               a.m. and 12:00
Fee for parking  7-2-4   Fee to be paid for parking at Metra station.                          midnight, and
at Metra Station (C)                                                                           the driver of  Free
                                                                                               such vehicle,
                                                                                               or his or her
                                                                                               designee,
                                                                                               shall be
                                                                                               required to
                                                                                               promptly
                                                                                               remove such
                                                                                               vehicle from
                                                                                               the parking
                                                                                               lot before 12:
                                                                                               00 midnight.
                                                                                               Monthly
                                                                                               parking fee to
                                                                                               be paid in
                                                                                               advance for    Monthly fee: $34.00 per
                                                                                               each vehicle   month, per vehicle
                                                                                               to be parked
                                                                                               in the Metra
                                                                                               Station
                                                                                               parking lot
Mandatory daily          (See entry for Sections
fine for                 7-2-1 (A),
violation of     7-2-13  7-2-1 (E), and                                                        -              -
Chapter 2 of             7-2-13  above.)
Title 7
CHAPTER 4, "MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               Fee for reach
                                                                                               household
                                                                                               located in a
                                                                                               single family
                                                                                               dwelling,
                                                                                               townhome, or
                                                                                               condominium
                                                                                               (Owners of
                                                                                               multi- family  $36.00 per household
                                                                                               dwelling units
                                                                                               shall pay an
                                                                                               annual motor
                                                                                               vehicle
                                                                                               license fee
                                                                                               for each
                                                                                               dwelling unit
                                                                                               owned.)
                                                                                               Fee for each
                                                                                               multi- family
                                                                                               rental unit.
                                                                                               (Owners of
                                                                                               multi- family
                                                                                               dwelling units
                                                                                               shall pay an   $18.00 per rental unit
                                                                                               annual motor
                                                                                               vehicle
                                                                                               license fee
                                                                                               for each
                                                                                               dwelling unit
                                                                                               owned.)
                                                                                               Fee for each
                                                                                               multi- family
                                                                                               rental unit
                                                                                               located within
                                                                                               a building
                                                                                               reserved for
                                                                                               senior
                                                                                               housing.
                                                                                               (Owners of     $12.00 per rental unit
                                                                                               multi- family
Annual Motor                                                                                   dwelling units
Vehicle License  7-4-1   Annual motor vehicle license fee to be paid per household to the      shall pay an
Fee (to be paid          Village by the owner or lessee of property located within the Village annual motor
per household)                                                                                 vehicle
                                                                                               license fee
                                                                                               for each
                                                                                               dwelling unit
                                                                                               owned.)
                                                                                               Fee for each
                                                                                               household that
                                                                                               includes a
                                                                                               senior citizen
                                                                                               resident (65
                                                                                               years of age
                                                                                               and older) who $12.00 per household
                                                                                               owns or rents
                                                                                               the premises
                                                                                               (excluding the
                                                                                               fee for any
                                                                                               commercial
                                                                                               motor
                                                                                               vehicles)
                                                                                               Fee for any
                                                                                               household
                                                                                               where no
                                                                                               member of such
                                                                                               household owns
                                                                                               or operates a
                                                                                               motor vehicles No fee required
                                                                                               and does not
                                                                                               regularly
                                                                                               garage, store
                                                                                               or park such a
                                                                                               vehicle
                                                                                               overnight in
                                                                                               the Village
                                                                                               Fee for        1 to 4      $36.0 0
                                                                                               vehicles       vehic les
                                                                                               owned, leased, 5 to 10     $72.0 0
                                                                                               or utilized in vehic les
                                                                                               a commercial   More than
                                                                                               business       10 vehic    $108. 00
                                                                                               located within les
                                                                                               the Village
Mandatory daily                                                                                Not less than $50.00 per day nor more than
fine for                 Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of     $750.00 per day, and each day a violation
violation of     7-4-3   Chapter 4 of Title 7 relative to annual motor vehicle license         occurs or continues constitutes a separate
Chapter 4 of                                                                                   offense.
Title 7
Chapter 6, "Motor Vehicle Towing and Impoundment"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
                                                                                               For any
                                                                                               standard, non-
                                                                                               commercial
                                                                                               motor vehicle:
                                                                                               mandatory
                                                                                               administrative
                                                                                               fee for those  $250.00
                                                                                               violations
                                                                                               listed in
                                                                                               Section 7-6-6
Mandatory                Mandatory administrative fee to be paid to the Village by the         (D) of the
administrative           registered owner of a motor vehicle, or the agent of said owner, to   Lake Villa
fee charged              defray administrative and processing costs incurred by the Village    Village Code
relative to the  7-6-6   relative to the towing and/or impoundment of a vehicle. This fee is   For any
towing and/or            in addition to (1) any fees charged by the towing company for the     commercial
impoundment of a         towing and/or storage of an impounded vehicle, and (2) any penalties  motor vehicle
vehicle                  assessed by a court of law or administrative hearing officer for the  and/or any
                         underlying violation(s).                                              oversized
                                                                                               motor vehicle:
                                                                                               mandatory
                                                                                               administrative $500.00
                                                                                               fee for those
                                                                                               violations
                                                                                               listed in
                                                                                               section
                                                                                               7-6-6 (D) of
                                                                                               the Lake Villa
                                                                                               Village Code
Mandatory daily                                                                                1st Offense    $200.00
fine for                 Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of     2nd Offense    $500.00
violation of     7-6-14  Chapter 6 of Title 7, and each day a violation occurs or continues    3rd Offense    $750.00
Chapter 6 of             constitutes a separate offense.                                       4th Offense    $750.00
Title 7                                                                                        and thereafter
TITLE 8, "BUILDING REGULATIONS"
Chapter 1, "Building Code"
                 Village
Type             Code    Description                                                           Amount
                 Section
Permit Required;                                                                               The applicable permit fee(s) shall be as
Certificate of   8-1-3   Fee to be paid to the Village for the applicable permit(s) required   set forth in Section
Occupancy                for certain work on principal or non-principal structures             8-1-7 (C) and
                                                                                               8-1-7 (D) of this Village Code
FEES FOR WORK ELIGIBLE TO BE PERFORMED UNDER THE VILLAGE'S RESIDENTIAL REGISTRATION PROGRAM ONLY
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               registration
                                                                                               for re-roofing $35.00
                                                                                               by an Illinois
                                                                                               licensed
                                                                                               roofer
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               registration
                                                                                               for
                                                                                               installation   $35.00
                                                                                               of new siding
                                                                                               and/or siding
                                                                                               alteration
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               registration
                                                                                               for
                                                                                               construction   $35.00
                                                                                               of a shed
                                                                                               under 200
                                                                                               square feet
RESIDENTIAL                                                                                    Fee for
REGISTRATION                                                                                   registration
PROGRAM: Non-                                                                                  installation
refundable               Non-refundable registration fee(s) to be paid to the Village for      of a fence     $35.00
registration fee         registration of certain work pursuant to the Village's Residential    (not in
(s) for certain  8-1-7   Registration Program to be performed on a residential structure and/  drainage
work on a        (B)     or on a residential property located within the Village prior to      easement)
residential              commencement of any construction activity.                            Fee for
structure or                                                                                   construction
residential                                                                                    of a free-
property                                                                                       standing       $35.00
                                                                                               pergola under
                                                                                               200 square
                                                                                               feet
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               registration
                                                                                               for
                                                                                               construction
                                                                                               of a free-     $35.00
                                                                                               standing
                                                                                               gazebo under
                                                                                               200 square
                                                                                               feet
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               registration
                                                                                               for
                                                                                               replacement of
                                                                                               water heater   $35.00
                                                                                               (by a licensed
                                                                                               plumber and
                                                                                               in-kind
                                                                                               replacement)
FEES AND OTHER CHARGES APPLICABLE TO WORK NOT COVERED BY THE VILLAGE'S RESIDENTIAL REGISTRATION PROGRAM
                                                                                               Base Plan
                                                                                               Review Fee for
                                                                                               1 & 2 Family   $150.00, Per unit
                                                                                               Dwelling, Per
                                                                                               Unit
                                                                                               Base Plan
                                                                                               Review Fee for
                                                                                               1 & 2 Family   $150.00 Minimum Per Unit
                                                                                               Dwelling,
                                                                                               minimum fee
                                                                                               Base Plan
                                                                                               Review Fee for
                                                                                               any principal  $200.00 per structure
                                                                                               structure more
                                                                                               than 7,500
                                                                                               cubic feet
                                                                                               Base Plan
                                                                                               Review Fee for
                                                                                               any accessory  $200.00 per structure
Non-refundable                                                                                 structure more
Plan Review Fee                                                                                than 7,500
(s) for work on                                                                                cubic feet
any primary                                                                                    In addition to the Base Plan Review Fee,
residential              Non-refundable plan review fee(s) to be paid to the Village prior to  following is the additional fee to be paid
structure,               commencement of work on any primary residential structure, accessory  to the Village per structure based upon
accessory        8-1-7   structure, or residential property within the Village. (Permit fee(s) the square footage of the respective
structure, or    (C)     and inspection fee(s) are in addition to and separate from the plan   structure:
residential              review fees.)                                                         Up to 1,499    $200.00
property within                                                                                sq. ft.
the Village                                                                                    1,500 - 2,499  $250.00
(Permit volume                                                                                 sq. ft.
cost only)                                                                                     2,500 - 3,999  $300.00
                                                                                               sq. ft.
                                                                                               4,000 - 4,999  $350.00
                                                                                               sq. ft.
                                                                                               5,000 sq. ft.  $400.00
                                                                                               and over
                                                                                               Accessory
                                                                                               buildings and  $35.00
                                                                                               Additions, 100
                                                                                               - 600 sq. ft.
                                                                                               Accessory
                                                                                               buildings and
                                                                                               additions,     $50.00
                                                                                               over 600 sq.
                                                                                               ft.
                                                                                               Other than the $100.00 per 1,000 cubic
                                                                                               above          feet
                                                                                               Other than the $100.00 minimum
                                                                                               above
                                                                                               Phase Permits  $100.00 Per Subdivisio n
                                                                                                              Phase
                                                                                               Foundation     $100.00 Per Inspection
                                                                                               only
                                                                                               Moving,
                                                                                               raising,
                                                                                               shoring,
                                                                                               underpinning,
                                                                                               new foundation
                                                                                               and alteration
Non-refundable                                                                                 work for
Preliminary                                                                                    existing
Inspection Fee                                                                                 structures, or
(s) for work on          Non-refundable fee(s) to be paid to the Village for preliminary       repairing
any residential  8-1-7   inspection of work being performed on a residential structure or      fire- damaged
structure or     (C)     residential property within the Village.                              structures,    $50.00 Per Inspection
residential                                                                                    including
property within                                                                                additions,
the Village                                                                                    remodeling,
                                                                                               moving,
                                                                                               raising,
                                                                                               shoring and
                                                                                               underpinning
                                                                                               and other
                                                                                               foundation
                                                                                               alterations
                                                                                               such as
                                                                                               porches
                                                                                               Permit fee for
                                                                                               construction
                                                                                               of a principal
                                                                                               residential    $50.00 per 1,000 cubic feet
                                                                                               structure,
Non-refundable           Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village relative to    including an
Permit Fee(s)            one- and two- family principal buildings, for new construction,       attached
relative to one- 8-1-7   remodeling of and/or construction of an addition toan existing one or garage
and two-family   (C)     two- family residential structure within the Village, including an    Permit fee for
principal                attached garage erected at the same time as the principal structure.  construction
buildings                                                                                      of a principal
                                                                                               residential    $50.00 per 1,000 cubic feet
                                                                                               structure,     (Minimum fee)
                                                                                               including an
                                                                                               attached
                                                                                               garage
                                                                                               Permit fee for
                                                                                               construction   $25.00 per 1,000 square
                                                                                               of new         feet
                                                                                               accessory
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Permit fee for
                                                                                               construction   $25.00 minimum per
                                                                                               of new         structure
                                                                                               accessory
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Permit fee for
                                                                                               construction
                                                                                               of accessory   $25.00 per structure
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               under 100
                                                                                               square feet
                                                                                               Permit fee for
Non-refundable                                                                                 construction
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  of accessory   $25.00 minimum per
for construction         Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for            structure      structure
of a new         8-1-7   construction of an accessory structure on residential property.       under 100
accessory        (C)     Permit fee(s) for accessory structure(s) do not include inspection    square feet
structure on             fee(s), which are a separate, additional cost.                        Permit fee for
residential                                                                                    construction
property                                                                                       of plastic
                                                                                               storage
                                                                                               structure 12
                                                                                               square feet or
                                                                                               less. Such
                                                                                               structures are
                                                                                               only permitted
                                                                                               to be placed   No charge; no permit
                                                                                               next to the    required.
                                                                                               principal
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               structure on a
                                                                                               property. Only
                                                                                               one such
                                                                                               structure is
                                                                                               allowed on an
                                                                                               any
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               lot.
                                                                                               Permit fee for
                                                                                               construction
                                                                                               of an addition $25.00 per 1,000 square
                                                                                               to an existing feet
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Permit fee for
                                                                                               construction
                                                                                               nof an         $25.00 minimum per
Non-refundable                                                                                 addition to an structure
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  existing
for construction 8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for            residential
of an addition   (C)     construction of an addition to an existing residential structure.     structure
to an existing                                                                                 Permit fee for
residential                                                                                    construction
structure                                                                                      of a new
                                                                                               addition to a
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               structure and  $25.00 minimum per
                                                                                               incidental     structure
                                                                                               and/or
                                                                                               accessory
                                                                                               structures
                                                                                               under 100
                                                                                               square feet
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               plumbing work
                                                                                               relative a new $150.00
                                                                                               one-story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
Non-refundable                                                                                 fee for
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  plumbing work
for plumbing                                                                                   relative to a  $175.00
work relative to 8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for plumbing   new one and
construction of  (C)     work related to construction of a new single-family dwelling          one-half story
a new single-                                                                                  single-family
family dwelling                                                                                dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               plumbing work
                                                                                               relative to a  $200.00
                                                                                               new one-story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Plus: Fee for  $15.00 per fixture
                                                                                               each fixture
Non-refundable
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  Base permit
for plumbing                                                                                   fee for
work relative to        Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for plumbing   alterations to $50.00
alterations to           work related to alterations to an existing residential structure.     an existing
an existing                                                                                    residential
residential                                                                                    structure
structure
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               work relative  $150.00
                                                                                               to a one-story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               work relative  $175.00
                                                                                               to a one and
                                                                                               one-half story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
Non-refundable                                                                                 fee for
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  electrical
for electrical   8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for electrical work relative  $200.00
work on a        (C)     work on a single-family residential structure                         to a two-story
single-family                                                                                  single-family
residential                                                                                    dwelling
structure                                                                                      Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               work relative
                                                                                               to residential $50.00
                                                                                               remodeling,
                                                                                               garages,
                                                                                               additions,
                                                                                               etc.
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               work relative  $50.00
                                                                                               to alterations
                                                                                               to existing
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               systems
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for one
                                                                                               (1) furnace
                                                                                               for a one-     $150.00
                                                                                               story single-
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for one
                                                                                               (1) furnace
                                                                                               for a one and  $175.00
                                                                                               one-half story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for one
                                                                                               (1) furnace
                                                                                               for a two-     $200.00
                                                                                               story single-
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for two
                                                                                               (2) furnaces
Non-refundable                                                                                 for a one-     $200.00
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  story single-
relative to work                                                                               family
on heating       8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for work on    dwelling
systems for a    (C)     heating systems for a single-family residential structure             Base permit
single-family                                                                                  fee for two
residential                                                                                    (2) furnaces
structure                                                                                      for a one and  $250.00
                                                                                               one-half story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for two
                                                                                               (2) furnaces
                                                                                               for a two-     $300.00
                                                                                               story single-
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               alterations to
                                                                                               an existing    $50.00
                                                                                               heating system
                                                                                               for a
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               replacement of $50.00
                                                                                               a furnace for
                                                                                               a residential
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for one
                                                                                               (1) air
                                                                                               conditioning   $75.00
                                                                                               unit for a
                                                                                               one-story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for one
                                                                                               (1) air
                                                                                               conditioning
                                                                                               unit for a one $100.00
                                                                                               and one-half
                                                                                               story single-
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for one
                                                                                               (1) air
                                                                                               conditioning   $125.00
                                                                                               unit for a
                                                                                               two-story
                                                                                               single- family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for two
                                                                                               (2) air
                                                                                               conditioning   $100.00
                                                                                               units for a
                                                                                               one-story
                                                                                               single- family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for two
                                                                                               (2) air
Non-refundable                                                                                 conditioning
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  units for a    $150.00
relative to work                                                                               one and one-
on air           8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for work on    half story
conditioning     (C)     air conditioning systems for a single- family residential structure.  single-family
systems for a                                                                                  dwelling
single-family                                                                                  Base permit
residential                                                                                    fee for two
structure                                                                                      (2) air
                                                                                               conditioning   $200.00
                                                                                               units for a
                                                                                               two-story
                                                                                               single- family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee relative
                                                                                               to work on air
                                                                                               conditioning
                                                                                               systems for a
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               pursuant to    $50.00
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               remodeling
                                                                                               and/or an
                                                                                               addition to
                                                                                               the
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               installation
                                                                                               of air         $50.00
                                                                                               conditioning
                                                                                               ductwork for a
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for
                                                                                               alterations to
                                                                                               existing air   $25.00
                                                                                               conditioning
                                                                                               systems for a
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               inspection of
                                                                                               accessory      $25.00
                                                                                               building or
                                                                                               addition under
                                                                                               100 sq. ft.
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               inspection of
                                                                                               accessory      $35.00
                                                                                               building or
                                                                                               addition over
                                                                                               100 sq. ft.
                                                                                               Fee for
Non-refundable                                                                                 inspection of  $35.00
fee(s) for                                                                                     basement
inspection of    8-1-7   Non-refundable inspection fee(s) to be paid to the Village for        build-out
carpentry work   (C)     inspection of carpentry work on residential property.                 Base
on residential                                                                                 inspection fee
property                                                                                       for one-story  $150.00
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base
                                                                                               inspection fee
                                                                                               for one and    $175.00
                                                                                               one-half story
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base
                                                                                               inspection fee
                                                                                               for two-story  $200.00
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Plan review,   No charge
                                                                                               swimming pool
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for        $85.00
                                                                                               swimming pool,
                                                                                               above ground
                                                                                               Base permit
                                                                                               fee for        $150.00
                                                                                               swimming pool,
Non-refundable                                                                                 in-around
permit fee(s)            Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for installation  Special
for installation         of a swimming pool on a residential property, as well as other        inspection (if $75.00
of a swimming            related fees. A certificate of occupancy is required for all swimming necessary)
pool on a        8-1-7   pools, and a plumbing permit is also required for installation of all Base
residential      (C)     in-ground pools. [NOTE: A permit is required for all swimming pools   mechanical     $100.00
property and             18 feet in diameter or over 250 square feet in area, or over 24       permit fee for
other related            inches deep or over 250 square feet in area]                          heated pool
fee(s)                                                                                         Base plumbing
                                                                                               permit fee for
                                                                                               installation   $150.00
                                                                                               of an in-
                                                                                               ground pool
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for  $50.00
                                                                                               installation
                                                                                               of a swimming
                                                                                               pool
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for  $150.00
                                                                                               a one-story
                                                                                               single- family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for
                                                                                               a one and one- $175.00
                                                                                               half storv
                                                                                               single-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for  $200.00
                                                                                               a two-story
                                                                                               single- family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for  $100.00 per dwelling unit
                                                                                               a 2-family
                                                                                               dwelling
                                                                                               Base fee for   $5.00 per 1,000 sq. ft., or
                                                                                               certificate of $50.00 minimum, whichever
                                                                                               occupancy for  is
                                                                                               a supporting   greater
                                                                                               area
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for  $50.00 minimum fee
                                                                                               a supporting
                                                                                               area
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for
                                                                                               a garage,
Non-refundable                                                                                 accessory      $25.00
permit fee(s)                                                                                  building, and
for a                                                                                          an addition
certificate of   8-1-7   Non-refundable fee to be paid to the Village for a certificate of     under 100
occupancy        (C)     occupancy for a residential structure.                                square feet
relative to a                                                                                  Base fee for
residential                                                                                    certificate of
structure                                                                                      occupancy for
                                                                                               a garage,
                                                                                               accessory      $35.00
                                                                                               building, and
                                                                                               an addition
                                                                                               over 100
                                                                                               square feet
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy
                                                                                               relative to    $50.00
                                                                                               mechanicals
                                                                                               (plumbing,
                                                                                               electrical,
                                                                                               heating, pool)
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               temporary
                                                                                               certificate of $50.00
                                                                                               occupancy per
                                                                                               inspection (90
                                                                                               days maximum)
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for  $200.00
                                                                                               any new
                                                                                               principal
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               any new
                                                                                               accessory      $25.00
                                                                                               structure over
                                                                                               200 square
                                                                                               feet
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for
                                                                                               plumbing,      $25.00
                                                                                               electric,
                                                                                               heating, or
                                                                                               cooling
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               construction
                                                                                               of repairs     $10.00 per $1,000 estimated
                                                                                               and/or         cost of constructio n, or
                                                                                               alterations    $50.00 minimum, whichever
                                                                                               relative to a  is greater
                                                                                               residential
Non-refundable                                                                                 structure.
permit fee(s)                                                                                  Base fee for
for certain                                                                                    re-roofing a
repairs and/or   8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for certain       residential
alterations to a (C)     repairs and/or alterations to a residential structure.                structure, not $75.00
residential                                                                                    done by an
structure                                                                                      Illinois
                                                                                               licensed
                                                                                               roofer
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               basement       $75.00 per $1,000 of cost
                                                                                               build-out      of construction, or $75.00
                                                                                               relative to a  minimum, whichever is
                                                                                               residential    greater
                                                                                               structure.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               floodplain/
                                                                                               flood table
                                                                                               (for new       $348.00
                                                                                               structure,
                                                                                               addition,
                                                                                               alterations,
                                                                                               fill)
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               hydrology
                                                                                               review or      $418.00
                                                                                               detention
                                                                                               basin plan
                                                                                               review
                                                                                               Base fee for   $84.00 fee per inspection
                                                                                               inspection of  per site
                                                                                               each site
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               an amendment   $84.00
                                                                                               to a permit
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               permit         $139.00
                                                                                               expiration
                                                                                               extension
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               permit plan    $91.00
                                                                                               revision
                                                                                               Base fee for a $91.00
                                                                                               plan review
                                                                                               Base fee per
                                                                                               lot relative
                                                                                               to
                                                                                               subdivisions   $73.00 per lot
                                                                                               over 60 lots
Non-refundable                                                                                 (per lot) [See
permit fee(s)            Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for additional    Pg. 10 of Ord.
for certain      8-1-7   services relative to residential structures and/or residential        2019-11-01)
additional       (C)     developments.                                                         Base fee per
services                                                                                       lot relative
                                                                                               to
                                                                                               subdivisions   $73.00 per lot
                                                                                               over 60 lots
                                                                                               (per lot) [See
                                                                                               Pg. 10 of Ord.
                                                                                               2019-11-01]
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               administrative
                                                                                               violation(s)
                                                                                               and/or Stop    $223.00 per Stop Order
                                                                                               Order(s) [See
                                                                                               Pg. 10 of Ord.
                                                                                               2019-11-01]
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               as-built       $132.00
                                                                                               foundation
                                                                                               review
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               Zoning
                                                                                               Certificate    $25.00
                                                                                               and/or for a
                                                                                               Change in Use
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               site permit
                                                                                               for a mobile   $50.00 per pad, including
                                                                                               home or a      utilities
                                                                                               recreational
                                                                                               vehicle
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               annual renewal
                                                                                               of a site      $150.00
                                                                                               permit for a   Annual Fee
                                                                                               mobile home or
                                                                                               a recreational
                                                                                               vehicle
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development 0  $213.00
                                                                                               - 1,500 sq.
                                                                                               ft.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development    $515.00
                                                                                               1,501 - 15,000
                                                                                               sq. ft.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $833.00
                                                                                               15,001 sq. ft.
                                                                                               to less than 1
                                                                                               acre
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development 1  $1,111.00
                                                                                               acre to less
                                                                                               than 3 acres
Non-refundable           Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for site          Base fee for
permit fee(s)    8-1-7   development per area of disturbance. Fees include site restoration    site
for site         (C)     and septic field, if any. [See Pg. 10 of Ord. 2019-11-01]             development, 3 $2,083.00
development                                                                                    acres to less
                                                                                               than 15 acres
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $2,778.00
                                                                                               15 acres to
                                                                                               less than 30
                                                                                               acres
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $3,473.00
                                                                                               30 acres or
                                                                                               greater.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               topdressing    $168.00
                                                                                               due to
                                                                                               subsidence
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               extension of
                                                                                               site           $84.00
                                                                                               development
                                                                                               permit
Non-refundable                                                                                 Permit fee     $50.00, per pad, including
permit fee(s)                                                                                                 utilities
for a mobile     8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for a mobile home
home and/or      (C)     and/or recreational vehicle site                                      Permit renewal
recreational                                                                                   fee            $150.00, annually
vehicle
site
FEES AND OTHER CHARGES APPLICABLE TO COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
                                                                                               Multi-unit     $50.00 per unit
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Motel, Hotel,  $50.00 per unit
                                                                                               Dormitory,     Plus: $5.00 per 100 sq. ft.
                                                                                               And/or Nursing for supporting area
                                                                                               Home
                                                                                               Motel, Hotel,
                                                                                               Dormitory,     $50.00 minimum
                                                                                               And/or Nursing
Non-refundable                                                                                 Home
plan review fee                                                                                Accessory
(s) for work on          Non-refundable plan review fee(s) to be paid to the Village prior to  building or
any commercial   8-1-7   commencement of work on any commercial structure or commercial        Addition (100  $35.00 per structure
structure or     (D)     property within the Village                                           to 600 sq.
commercial                                                                                     ft.)
property within                                                                                Accessory
the Village                                                                                    building or    $50.00 per structure
                                                                                               Addition (Over
                                                                                               600 sq. ft.)
                                                                                               Swimming Pool, $100.00
                                                                                               Commercial
                                                                                               Structures     $100.00 per 50,000 cubic
                                                                                               other than     feet, or $100.00 minimum,
                                                                                               above          whichever is greater
                                                                                               Phase Permit   $250.00 per subdivision
                                                                                               Fee            phase
                                                                                               Office Area/   $35.00 per 1,000 cubic
                                                                                               Storage, New   feet, or $50.00 minimum,
Non-refundable                                                                                 Construction   whichever is greater
permit fee(s)            Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village prior to       Warehouse, New $15.00 per 1,000 cubic
for certain work 8-1-7   commencement of work on any commercial structure or commercial        Construction   feet, or $50.00 minimum,
on a commercial  (D)     property within the Village. (Inspection fee(s) are in addition to                   whichever is greater
structure or             and separate from the permit fees.)                                   Commercial or
commercial                                                                                     Industrial     $50.00 per 1,500 sq. feet,
property                                                                                       Remodeling     or $50.00 minimum,
                                                                                               and/or         whichever is greater
                                                                                               Addition
                                                                                               Commercial/    $50.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
                                                                                               Industrial     or $50.00 minimum,
                                                                                               plumbing work  whichever is greater
                                                                                               Plumbing work
                                                                                               on new multi-  $15.00 for each unit
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Plumbing work  $15.00 per fixture
                                                                                               - fixtures
                                                                                               Plumbing work  $8.00 per sprinkler head,
                                                                                               - sprinkler    or $50.00 minimum,
                                                                                               system (fire   whichever is greater
                                                                                               suppression)
                                                                                               Plumbing
                                                                                               alteration
                                                                                               work -         $50.00 per system
                                                                                               sprinkler
                                                                                               system (fire
                                                                                               suppression)
                                                                                               Plumbing
                                                                                               alteration
                                                                                               work - related
                                                                                               electrical     $50.00 minimum per system
                                                                                               alteration
Non-refundable                                                                                 sprinkler
Permit Fee(s)                                                                                  system (fire
for plumbing                                                                                   suppression)
work relative to 8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) for plumbing work relative to a          Plumbing work  $5.00 per sprinkler head,
a commercial     (D)     commercial structure or a commercial property                         - Sprinkler    or $50.00 minimum,
structure or a                                                                                 system (lawn)  whichever is greater
commercial                                                                                     Plumbing
property                                                                                       alteration
                                                                                               work -         $50.00 minimum
                                                                                               sprinkler
                                                                                               system (lawn)
                                                                                               Plumbing
                                                                                               alteration
                                                                                               work -
                                                                                               sprinkler
                                                                                               system -       $50.00 minimum
                                                                                               related
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               alteration
                                                                                               (lawn)
                                                                                               Plumbing work
                                                                                               - alterations
                                                                                               to existing    $50.00 per unit
                                                                                               commercial
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Plumbing work
                                                                                               - related      $50.00 minimum
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               alteration
                                                                                               Plumbing work
                                                                                               - commercial   $100.00 per unit
                                                                                               swimming pool
                                                                                               Work on
                                                                                               heating system
                                                                                               for new multi- $125.00 per unit
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Installation   $50.00 per 1,500 sq. ft, or
                                                                                               of commercial  $50.00 minimum, whichever
                                                                                               or industrial  is greater
Non-refundable                                                                                 heating system
permit fee(s)                                                                                  Work on
for work                 Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village prior to       commercial or  $25.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
relative to a    8-1-7   commencement of work on a heating system for any commercial structure industrial     or $50.00 minimum,
heating system   (D)     or commercial property within the Village                             heating        whichever is greater
for a commercial                                                                               system-
structure                                                                                      remodeling
                                                                                               Replacement of
                                                                                               commercial or  $50.00 per unit
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               heating unit
                                                                                               Alterations to
                                                                                               an existing
                                                                                               commercial or  $50.00 per system
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               heating system
                                                                                               Replacement of
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               service on a   $50.00 per system
                                                                                               commercial or
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Work on
                                                                                               electrical
                                                                                               service for a  $125.00 per unit
                                                                                               new multi-
                                                                                               family
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Installation
                                                                                               of electrical
Non-refundable                                                                                 service for a  $125.00 per unit
permit fee(s)                                                                                  new multi-
for electrical           Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village prior to       family
work on a        8-1-7   commencement of electrical work on any commercial structure or        structure
commercial       (D)     commercial property within the Village                                Installation
structure or on                                                                                of electrical  $50.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
a commercial                                                                                   service for a  or $100.00 minimum,
property                                                                                       commercial or  whichever is greater
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Installation
                                                                                               of electrical
                                                                                               service for    $25.00 per pump
                                                                                               service
                                                                                               station pumps
                                                                                               Alterations to
                                                                                               the electrical
                                                                                               system of an
                                                                                               existing       $50.00 per system
                                                                                               commercial or
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Installation
                                                                                               of air         $25.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
                                                                                               conditioning   or $50.00 per system
                                                                                               system on a    minimum, whichever is
                                                                                               commercial or  greater
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Remodeling of
                                                                                               air            $25.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
                                                                                               conditioning   or $50.00 per system
Non-refundable                                                                                 system on a    minimum, whichever is
permit fee(s)                                                                                  commercial or  greater
for work                 Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village prior to       industrial
relative to an   8-1-7   commencement of work on an air conditioning system for any commercial structure
air conditioning (D)     structure or commercial property within the Village                   Alterations to
system for a                                                                                   an air
commercial                                                                                     conditioning
structure                                                                                      system of a    $50.00 per system
                                                                                               commercial or
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Replacement of
                                                                                               an air
                                                                                               conditioning
                                                                                               system on a    $50.00 per system
                                                                                               commercial or
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Inspection of  $10.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
                                                                                               commercial or  or $50.00 minimum,
                                                                                               industrial     whichever is greater
                                                                                               structure
Non-refundable                                                                                 Inspection of
fee(s) for                                                                                     new commercial $25.00 per unit, minimum
inspection of                                                                                  multi-family   $100.00 inspection fee
carpentry work   8-1-7   Non-refundable inspection fee(s{'}'} to be paid to the Village for    structure
on a commercial  (D)     inspection of carpentry work on a commercial or industrial structure. Inspection of
or industrial                                                                                  an accessory
structure                                                                                      building or an
                                                                                               addition over  $35.00 per accessory
                                                                                               200 sq. ft. to building or addition
                                                                                               a commercial
                                                                                               or industrial
                                                                                               structure
Non-refundable                                                                                 Installation
permit fee(s)                                                                                  of a swimming
for a swimming   8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee(s) to be paid to the Village for            pool on a
pool on          (D)     installation of a swimming pool on a commercial or industrial         commercial or  $350.00 per pool
commercial or            property.                                                             industrial
industrial                                                                                     property
property
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $390.00
                                                                                               0-1,500 sq.
                                                                                               ft.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $865.00
                                                                                               1,501-15,000
                                                                                               sq. ft.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $1,153.00
                                                                                               15,001 sq. ft.
                                                                                               - less than 1
                                                                                               acre
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development, 1 $1,729.00
Non-refundable                                                                                 acre - less
permit fee(s)                                                                                  than 3 acres
for site         8-1-7   Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for site          Base fee for
development      (D)     development per area of disturbance. Fees include site restoration    site
(commercial              and septic per development.                                           development, 3 $3,604.00
property)                                                                                      acres - less
                                                                                               than 15 acres
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $5,045.00
                                                                                               15 acres -
                                                                                               less than 30
                                                                                               acres
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               site
                                                                                               development,   $5,766.00
                                                                                               30 acres or
                                                                                               greater
                                                                                               Topdressing
                                                                                               due to         $168.00
                                                                                               subsidence
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               extension of
                                                                                               site           $173.00
                                                                                               development
                                                                                               permit
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of $75.00 per each dwelling
                                                                                               occupancy for  unit
                                                                                               a multi-unit
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of $35.00 per 1,500 sq. ft.,
                                                                                               occupancy for  or $150.00 minimum,
                                                                                               commercial or  whichever is greater
                                                                                               industrial
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for
                                                                                               remodeling of  $50.00 per certificate
                                                                                               a commercial
                                                                                               or industrial
                                                                                               building under
                                                                                               1,500 sq. ft.
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy for
                                                                                               alterations on $50.00 per certificate
                                                                                               a commercial
                                                                                               or industrial
                                                                                               building
Non-refundable                                                                                 Base fee for
permit fee(s)                                                                                  certificate of
for a                                                                                          occupancy for
certificate of   8-1-7   Non-refundable fee to be paid to the Village for a certificate of     a motel,       $50.00 per unit
occupancy        (D)     occupancy for a commercial structure.                                 hotel,
relative to a                                                                                  dormitory and/
commercial                                                                                     or nursing
structure                                                                                      home
                                                                                               Base fee for
                                                                                               certificate of $5.00 per 1,000 sq. ft., or
                                                                                               occupancy for  $50.00 minimum, whichever
                                                                                               a supporting   is greater
                                                                                               area
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               temporary
                                                                                               certificate of $150.00 per certificate
                                                                                               occupancy per
                                                                                               inspection (90
                                                                                               days maximum)
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy
                                                                                               relative to    $75.00 per certificate
                                                                                               mechanicals
                                                                                               (plumbing,
                                                                                               electrical,
                                                                                               heating, pool)
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               certificate of
                                                                                               occupancy
                                                                                               relative to a  $150.00 per certificate
                                                                                               communication
                                                                                               tower,
                                                                                               bleachers,
                                                                                               elevator, etc.
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               foundation     $100.00 per inspection
                                                                                               only
Non-refundable                                                                                 Fee for
preliminary                                                                                    commercial/
inspection fee           Non-refundable fee(s) to be paid to the Village for preliminary       industrial     $200.00 per inspection
(s) for work on  8-1-7   inspection of work being performed on any commercial or industrial    team
any commercial   (D)     structure or property within the Village.                             inspection
or industrial                                                                                  Fee for
structure or                                                                                   inspection of
property                                                                                       minor work not $50.00 per inspection
                                                                                               requiring more
                                                                                               than one
                                                                                               inspector
                                                                                               Base fee for a
                                                                                               permit         $433.00 per permit
Non-refundable                                                                                 expiration
permit fee(s)            Non-refundable permit fee to be paid to the Village for additional    extension
for certain      8-1-7   services relative to commercial or industrial structures and/or       Base fee for
additional       (D)     commercial or industrial developments.                                issuance of a
services                                                                                       Zoning         $50.00 per certificate
                                                                                               Certificate
                                                                                               and/or for a
                                                                                               change in use
FEES AND OTHER CHARGES APPLICABLE TO COMMUNICATIONS AND RADIO TOWERS, BLEACHERS, ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS, AND OTHER MISCELLANEOUS PERMITS
AND FEES
                                                                                               Fee for work   $5.00 per $1,000 of
                                                                                               where a cubic  estimated cost of the work,
                                                                                               foot basis of  or $50.00 minimum,
                                                                                               measurement is whichever is greater
                                                                                               not practical.
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               installation,  $5.00 per $1,000 of
                                                                                               repair, or     estimated cost of the work,
                                                                                               removal of a   or $50.00 minimum,
                                                                                               retaining wall whichever is greater
                                                                                               or seawall
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               installation,
                                                                                               repair, or     $50.00
                                                                                               removal of a
                                                                                               temporary
                                                                                               structure
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               installation,
                                                                                               repair, or     $50.00 per tank
                                                                                               removal of an
                                                                                               above-ground
                                                                                               gasoline tank
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               installation,
                                                                                               repair, or     $100.00 per tank
                                                                                               removal of a
                                                                                               below-ground
                                                                                               gasoline tank
                                                                                               Fee for
Non-refundable                                                                                 installation,
permit fee(s)    8-1-7                                                                         repair, or     $50.00 per island
and other charge (D)     Non-refundable fee(s) and other charges to be paid to the Village.    removal of a
(s) payable to                                                                                 gasoline
the Village                                                                                    island
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               installation,
                                                                                               repair, or     $100.00 per canopy
                                                                                               removal of a
                                                                                               canopy
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               installation
                                                                                               of a new
                                                                                               elevator,      $175.00 each
                                                                                               dumbwaiter,
                                                                                               and/or
                                                                                               escalator
                                                                                               Fee for repair
                                                                                               of an
                                                                                               elevator,      $75.00 each
                                                                                               dumbwaiters,
                                                                                               and/or
                                                                                               escalator
                                                                                               Plan review
                                                                                               fee, unless
                                                                                               otherwise      $175.00 each
                                                                                               specified in
                                                                                               this Chapter
                                                                                               Fee for semi-
                                                                                               annual
                                                                                               inspection of  $175.00, per item, per
                                                                                               an elevator,   inspection
                                                                                               dumbwaiter,
                                                                                               and/or
                                                                                               escalator
PERMIT FEE(S), INSPECTION FEE(S), SIGNAGE FEES, AND OTHER FEE(S) APPLICABLE TO BOTH RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               enforcement
                                                                                               and
                                                                                               administration
                                                                                               of Village     $50.00 per matter
                                                                                               Code
                                                                                               provisions
                                                                                               relative to
                                                                                               water supply
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               enforcement
                                                                                               and
                                                                                               administration
                                                                                               of Village     $50.00 per matter
                                                                                               Code
                                                                                               provisions
                                                                                               relative to
                                                                                               sewage
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               demolition     $50.00, for each principal
                                                                                               permit for     structure
                                                                                               each principal
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               demolition     $25.00 for each accessory
                                                                                               permit for     structure
                                                                                               each accessory
                                                                                               building
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               driveway
                                                                                               permit (for
                                                                                               each curb
                                                                                               cut); permit
                                                                                               includes plan
                                                                                               review and up  $90.00 per curb cut
                                                                                               to 3 required
                                                                                               inspections.
                                                                                               Any additional
                                                                                               inspection
                                                                                               will be an
                                                                                               additional
                                                                                               charge.
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               temporary use  $50.00 per permit
                                                                                               permit
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               posting a
                                                                                               property for   $50.00 per stop order
                                                                                               violation(s)
                                                                                               and/or for
                                                                                               stop order(s)
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               Floodplain/
                                                                                               Floo d Table
                                                                                               relative to    $433.00
                                                                                               new structure,
                                                                                               addition,
                                                                                               alterations,
                                                                                               and/or fill
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               hydrology
                                                                                               review or      $577.00
                                                                                               detention
                                                                                               basin plan
                                                                                               review
                                                                                               Fee, per
Other Fee(s) and                                                                               inspection,
Charge(s) to be                                                                                for inspection
Paid to the                                                                                    of site,       $131.00, per Inspection
Village          8-1-7   Other fee(s) and charge(s) applicable to both residential and         unless
(Applicable to   (E)     commercial properties to be paid to the Village.                      otherwise
Both Residential                                                                               specified in
and Commercial                                                                                 this Code
Properties)                                                                                    Fee, per
                                                                                               inspection,
                                                                                               for inspection
                                                                                               (s) not
                                                                                               otherwise
                                                                                               specified
                                                                                               herein, any
                                                                                               inspection(s)
                                                                                               regarding a
                                                                                               violation      $50.00, per inspection
                                                                                               notice, and/or
                                                                                               any re-
                                                                                               inspection if
                                                                                               the related
                                                                                               work on the
                                                                                               property was
                                                                                               not approved
                                                                                               upon initial
                                                                                               inspection.
                                                                                               Fee for a
                                                                                               permit
                                                                                               amendment,
                                                                                               unless         $173.00 per each amendment
                                                                                               otherwise
                                                                                               specified in
                                                                                               this Code
                                                                                               Fee for permit
                                                                                               plan Revision,
                                                                                               unless         $187.00 per each revision
                                                                                               otherwise
                                                                                               specified in
                                                                                               this Code
                                                                                               Fee for plan
                                                                                               review, unless
                                                                                               otherwise      $187.00 per each review
                                                                                               specified in
                                                                                               this Code
                                                                                               Fee for review
                                                                                               of as-built    $173.00
                                                                                               foundation
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               erection of a
                                                                                               temporary tent No charge
                                                                                               over 1,000
                                                                                               square feet
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               moving,
                                                                                               raising,
                                                                                               shoring,
                                                                                               underpinning
                                                                                               of structure   $50.00
                                                                                               under 2,500
                                                                                               sq. ft.,
                                                                                               unless
                                                                                               otherwise
                                                                                               specified in
                                                                                               this Code
                                                                                               Fee for
                                                                                               moving,
                                                                                               raising,
                                                                                               shoring,
                                                                                               underpinning
                                                                                               of structure   $100.00
                                                                                               over 2,500 sq.
                                                                                               ft., unless
                                                                                               otherwise
                                                                                               specified in
                                                                                               this Code
OTHER APPLICABLE FEES, FINES, DEPOSITS, AND COSTS
Mandatory fine
for a violation                                                                                Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
of Chapter 1,            Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Chapter   than $750.00 per day for each violation,
"Building Code", 8-1-8   1, "Building Code., of Title 8, "Building Regulations".               and each day upon which a violation exists
of Title 8,                                                                                    or continues constitutes a separate
"Building                                                                                      offense
Regulations"
Deposit required
for repair of            Relative to structures located on property which is adjacent to and   Cash deposit or irrevocable letter of
damage to                obtains or has access to or from Village streets, prior to issuance   credit in the minimum amount of $2,000.00
Village roads    8-1-9   of any building permit for a principal structure, a deposit is        or such other amount as determined by the
and/or other             required to be paid to the Village for the purpose of repair of       Village Administrator and/or Village
public                   damage to Village roads and/or other public facilities.               Engineer
facilities
Fee for issuance                                                                               The fee for a driveway permit shall be as
of a driveway    8-1-10  Fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of a driveway permit       specified from time to time in Section
permit                                                                                         8-1-7 (E) of this chart. No permit is
                                                                                               required for sealcoating of a driveway.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day nor more
for a violation          Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Title 8,  than $750.00 per day for each violation,
of Title 8,      8-1-16  "Building Regulations".                                               and each day upon which a violation exists
"Building                                                                                      or continues constitutes a separate
Regulations"                                                                                   offense
Fee for issuance
of an electric
permit relative  8-3-17  Fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of an electric permit      $300.00 per dwelling unit
to a one- and            relative to a one- and two-family dwelling.
two-family
dwelling
Fee for issuance
of a plumbing            Fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of a plumbing permit for
permit relative  8-3-18  installation, alteration, and/or extension of any existing plumbing   $300.00 per dwelling unit
to a one- and            system relative to a one- and two-family dwelling.
two-family
dwelling
Fee for issuance
of a heating             Fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of a heating permit for
permit relative  8-1-19  installation and/or modification of any existing heating system       $200.00 per dwelling unit
to a one- and            relative to a one- and two-family dwelling.
two-family
dwelling
Fee for issuance
of an air
conditioning             Fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of an air conditioning
permit relative  8-3-20  permit for installation and/or modification of any existing air       $200.00 per dwelling unit
to a one- and            conditioning system relative to a one- and two-family dwelling.
two-family
dwelling
Fee for issuance
of a certificate
of occupancy for
each dwelling                                                                                  There is no fee for issuance of the
unit located in  8-3A-3  Fee to be paid to the Village, per dwelling unit, for issuance of a   required certificate of occupancy once the
a building which         certificate of occupancy for each applicable dwelling unit            dwelling unit passes the required
consists of 3 or                                                                               inspection(s).
less dwelling
units
(Residential)
Fee for
inspection and/
or reinspection
of each dwelling
unit located in
a building which         Fee to be paid to the Village, per inspection or reinspection of a    $100.00 fee per dwelling unit for each
consists of 3 or 8-3A-4  dwelling unit, per unit, prior to issuance of a certificate of        inspection and/or reinspection of each
less dwelling            occupancy for the respective dwelling unit.                           applicable residential dwelling unit.
units prior to
issuance of
certificate of
occupancy
(Residential)
Application for
certificate of
occupancy for            The owner of the building in which the respective dwelling unit(s) is
dwelling units           or are located is required to apply to the Village for and obtain a   There is no fee for issuance of the
located in a     8-3A-5  certificate of occupancy for each dwelling unit prior to each         required certificate of occupancy once the
building which           occupancy thereof. An inspection of each such dwelling unit is        applicable rental unit passes the required
consists of 3 or         required.                                                             inspection(s).
less dwelling
units
(Residential)
Fee for issuance
of a certificate
of occupancy for                                                                               There is no fee for issuance of the
each commercial          Fee to be paid to the Village for issuance of a certificate of        required certificate of occupancy once the
building and for 8-3B-3  occupancy for each commercial building or for each rental unit        commercial building or applicable rental
each rental unit                                                                               unit passes the required inspection(s).
within said
building
(Commercial)
Fee for
inspection and/
or reinspection
of each
commercial                                                                                     $100.00 fee for each inspection and/or
building or each         Fee to be paid to the Village, per inspection or reinspection, per    reinspection of each commercial building
rental unit      8-3B-4  commercial building and per rental unit, prior to issuance of a       and for each applicable rental unit within
within said              certificate of occupancy for the respective building or rental unit.  said building.
building prior
to issuance of
certificate of
occupancy
(Commercial)
Application for
certificate of
occupancy for            The owner of the commercial building in which the respective rental   There is no fee for issuance of the
each commercial          unit(s) is or are located is required to apply to the Village for and required certificate of occupancy once the
building or each 8-3B-5  obtain a certificate of occupancy for a commercial building or each   commercial building or applicable rental
rental unit              rental unit within said building prior to each occupancy thereof.     unit passes the required inspection(s).
within said
building
(Commercial)
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   International Building Code, except as otherwise specifically         each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              (A)(1)  provided in this Village Code.                                        constitutes a separate offense, plus
International                                                                                  attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Building Code                                                                                  the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   International Residential Code, except as otherwise specifically      each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              (A)(2)  provided in this Village Code.                                        constitutes a separate offense, plus
International                                                                                  attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Residential Code                                                                               the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   Existing Building Code, except as otherwise specifically provided in  each day a violation exists or continues
ICC Existing     (A)(3)  this Village Code.                                                    constitutes a separate offense, plus
Building Code                                                                                  attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
                                                                                               the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   International Mechanical Code, except as otherwise specifically       each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              (A)(4)  provided in this Village Code.                                        constitutes a separate offense, plus
International                                                                                  attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Mechanical Code                                                                                the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   International Fuel Gas Code, except as otherwise specifically         each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              (A)(5)  provided in this Village Code.                                        constitutes a separate offense, plus
International                                                                                  attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Fuel Gas Code                                                                                  the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                                                                                        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              (A)(6)  International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, except as otherwise         constitutes a separate offense, plus
International            specifically provided in this Village Code.                           attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Swimming Pool                                                                                  the Village.
and Spa Code
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   International Fire Code, except as otherwise specifically provided in each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              (A)(7)  this Village Code.                                                    constitutes a separate offense, plus
International                                                                                  attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Fire Code                                                                                      the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the NFPA  than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   70 National Electrical Code, except as otherwise specifically         each day a violation exists or continues
NFPA 70 National (A)(8)  provided in this Village Code.                                        constitutes a separate offense, plus
Electrical Code                                                                                attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
                                                                                               the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the State than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   of Illinois Plumbing Code, except as otherwise specifically provided  each day a violation exists or continues
State of         (A)(9)  in this Village Code.                                                 constitutes a separate offense, plus
Illinois                                                                                       attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Plumbing Code                                                                                  the Village.
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                                                                                        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the State each day a violation exists or continues
State of         (A)(10) of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, except as otherwise             constitutes a separate offense, plus
Illinois Energy          specifically provided in this Village Code.                           attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Conservation                                                                                   the Village.
Code
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                                                                                        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the State each day a violation exists or continues
State of         (A)(11) of Illinois Accessibility Code, except as otherwise specifically      constitutes a separate offense, plus
Illinois                 provided in this Village Code.                                        attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Accessibility                                                                                  the Village.
Code
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                                                                                        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the 8-4-1   Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the Lake  each day a violation exists or continues
Lake County Code (A)(12) County Code of Ordinances, Title XVII, "Health", except as otherwise  constitutes a separate offense, plus
of Ordinances,           specifically provided in this Village Code.                           attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Title XVII,                                                                                    the Village.
"Health"
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                                                                                        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of the         Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of the ICC   each day a violation exists or continues
ICC              8-4-6   International Property Maintenance Code, except as otherwise          constitutes a separate offense, plus
International            specifically provided in this Village Code.                           attorney's fees and any costs incurred by
Property                                                                                       the Village.
Maintenance Code
Inspection Fee   8-4-6   Nonrefundable fee to be paid to the Village for each inspection       Fee for each   $50.00 for each inspection
(Nonrefundable)          conducted by the Code Official, or his or her designee                inspection
                                                                                               Fee per
                                                                                               residential    $1,200.00
                                                                                               unit
                         Impact fees to be paid to the Village by a permittee prior to         Fee for duplex
Impact Fees              issuance of any building permit for residential construction. (Impact (2 residential
(Residential)    8-5-2   fees received by the Village shall be distributed to the respective   units, i.e.,
                         districts on a quarterly basis.)                                      twice the      $2,400.00
                                                                                               amount of a
                                                                                               single
                                                                                               residential
                                                                                               unit)
Impact Fees              Impact fees to be paid to the Village by a permittee prior to         Fee per non-residential unit: $.30 cents
(non-            8-5-3   issuance of any building permit for new non-residential construction. per square foot, or $1,500.00, whichever
residential)             (Impact fees received by the Village shall be distributed to the      is greater.
                         respective districts on a quarterly basis.)
Escrow Deposit           Prior to issuance of any building permit for construction in the
Required for             Village's LI or Ll-2 Zoning District, including but not limited to
Construction in  10-4-1- for any new or altered use, the applicant for a Building Permit shall
the LI or Ll-    2       deposit with the Village a fee which shall be held by the Village for $500.00 escrow fee
2 Zoning                 a period of one (1) year from the date of the new or altered use or
District                 occupancy. Any unused portion of said escrow deposit shall be
                         returned to the depositor(s) at the end of the escrow period.
Permit Fee for
Temporary Use
Permit for       10-4-5- Fee to be paid to the Village for a temporary use and for certain     $50.00 fee for each temporary or seasonal
Certain          2 (A)   temporary or seasonal uses.                                           use
Temporary or
Seasonal Uses
Cash bond                Prior to the Village's issuance of any temporary use permit for
required for             Christmas tree sales, a cash bond shall be deposited with the Village
issuance of a            for such use.                                                         Cash bond of a minimum of $200.00 or such
temporary use    10-4-5- Exception: No temporary use permit shall be required when the         higher amount, not to exceed $5,000.00, as
permit for       2 (D)   principal use of the property is a garden center, greenhouse, or      determined by the Village's Zoning
Christmas tree           nursery center. Such cash bond shall be utilized for any expenses     Officer, or his or her designee.
sales                    incurred by the Village relative to clean-up of the site at which the
                         temporary use was operated.
Cash or other            The owner and/or developer applying for a special use, conditional
security                 use, or any other use which is not permitted within the zoning        Cash deposit or other security equal to
approved by the  10-4-5- district in which the property is located is required to deposit a    one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of
Village Board of 6       guarantee in the form of cash or other security approved by the       the estimated cost of construction of all
Trustees to be           Village Board of Trustees for the estimated cost of construction of   public or common improvements, as
deposited as a           all public or common improvements.                                    estimated by the Village Engineer.
guarantee
                                                                                               Deposit of a performance guarantee
Deposit of                                                                                     required in an amount equal to one hundred
security for the                                                                               thirty percent (130%) of the estimated
performance              Deposit required of a security in the form of a letter of credit as a cost of the required landscape
guarantee and/or 10-4-6  performance guarantee and/or maintenance guarantee for landscape      improvements.
for maintenance          improvements.                                                         Deposit of a maintenance guarantee for a
guarantee for                                                                                  minimum of a one (1) year period required
landscaping                                                                                    in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of
                                                                                               the performance guarantee deposited with
                                                                                               the Village.
Cash bond                                                                                      Cash bond in an amount equal to one
required for                                                                                   hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the
maintenance,             Cash bond to be deposited with the Village for maintenance for a      estimated cost of maintenance for a ten
removal and      10-6C-3 period of ten (10) years and the cost of removal and disposal of the  (10) year period and removal and disposal
disposal of              entire installation.                                                  of the entire installation, as determined
communication                                                                                  by the Village Engineer or such other
tower facilities                                                                               expert designated by the Village.
Permit fee for                                                                                 [SEE SEC.
installation of  10-6D-3 Permit fee to be paid to the Village for installation of a sign.      10-6D-8  OF THIS FEE CHART]
a sign
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for any                                                                                        than $750.00 per day per violation, and
violation of             Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Article   each day a violation exists or continues
Article D, "Sign 10-6D-7 D, "Sign Regulations", of Chapter 6 of Title 10.                      constitutes a separate offense, plus
Regulations" of                                                                                attorney's fees and costs incurred by the
Chapter 6 of                                                                                   Village.
Title 10
                                                                                               $50.00 base fee for signage only, plus the
                                                                                               following additional fees:
                                                                                               $500.00 additional fee for a building
                                                                                               permit for the support structure upon
Permit fees for                                                                                which the sign is placed
installation of  10-6D-8 Permit fees to be paid to the Village for installation of a sign      $50.00 additional fee for sign served by
a sign                                                                                         electricity
                                                                                               $20.00 for a temporary sign
                                                                                               $500.00 non-refundable application fee for
                                                                                               a sign variation, which shall be paid at
                                                                                               time of application
                                                                                               FEES FOR REQUEST TO CHANGE ZONING MAP:
                                                                                               From Zoning    To Zoning   Non- Refundable
                                                                                               District       District    Fee
                                                                                                              AG, SR,
Non-refundable                                                                                 Any Zoning     UR1, UR2,   $600.00
Application Fee  10-7-   Non-refundable application fee(s) to be paid to the Village, due at   District       UR3, UR3A,
(s) for Zoning   7  (A)  the time of application for a conditional use (other than a planned                  or UR4
Relief           (1)     development), a variation, an appeal, rezoning, or text amendment(s)                 NC, CR, CB,
                                                                                                              SB, LI, LI-
                                                                                               Any Zoning     2, and all  $800.00
                                                                                               District       other
                                                                                                              Zoning
                                                                                                              Districts
                                                                                               NON-REFUNDABLE FEE(S) FOR PARCEL(S)
                                                                                               EXCEEDING FIVE (5) ACRES:
Non-refundable                                                                                 5 acres, but   125% of the fees in
Application Fee                                                                                less than 10   Subsection (A)(1) hereof
(s) for Zoning   10-7-   Non-refundable application fee(s) to be paid to the Village, due at   acres
Relief for       7  (A)  the time of application for relief from the Village's Zoning          10 acres, but  150% of the fees in
Parcel(s)        (2)     Regulations for parcel(s) exceeding five (5) acres                    less than 20   Subsection (A)(1) hereof
Exceeding Five                                                                                 acres
(5) Acres                                                                                      20 or more     175% of the fees in
                                                                                               acres          Subsection (A)(1) hereof,
                                                                                                              plus $10.00 per acre
Non-refundable                                                                                 NON-REFUNDABLE FEE FOR APPLICATION FOR
Application Fee                                                                                EACH CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT INCLUDING A
(s) for Zoning   10-7-   Non-refundable application fee(s) to be paid to the Village, due at   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
Relief for a     7  (A)  the time of application for a conditional use permit including a
Conditional Use  (3)     planned development                                                   Fee for each
Permit Including                                                                               conditional    $750.00
a Planned                                                                                      use permit
Development
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               application    Fee(s) as set forth in
                                                                                               fee for        Subsection (A)(1) hereof
                                                                                               request for
                                                                                               variation
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for re-    $100.00, plus the cost of
                                                                                               publication of publication
                                                                                               a legal notice
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for an
                                                                                               appeal from a
                                                                                               decision of    $100.00 per each issue on
                                                                                               the Zoning     appeal
                                                                                               Office or of
Non-refundable                                                                                 the Building
Application Fee  10-7-   Non-refundable application fee(s) to be paid to the Village, due at   lnspector
(s) for Zoning   7  (A)  the time of application for a variation from the Village's Zoning     Non-refundable
Relief for a     (4)     Regulations                                                           fee for
Variation                                                                                      issuance of a  $50.00
                                                                                               Certificate of
                                                                                               Zoning
                                                                                               Compliance
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for        $50.00
                                                                                               issuance of a
                                                                                               use permit
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for a
                                                                                               request for
                                                                                               rehearing on a Fee(s) paid relative to the
                                                                                               petition which original petition
                                                                                               was previously
                                                                                               rejected by
                                                                                               the Village
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for a
                                                                                               request for a  $850.00
                                                                                               Zoning
                                                                                               Ordinance text
                                                                                               amendment
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for a
Non-refundable                                                                                 request for a
Application Fee                                                                                Zoning
(s) for a        10-7-   Non-refundable application fee(s) to be paid to the Village, due at   Ordinance text
Request for a    7  (A)  the time of application for a Zoning Ordinance text amendment         amendment
Zoning Ordinance (5)                                                                           which includes
Text Amendment                                                                                 a request for  $850.00, or the fee charged
                                                                                               rezoning and/  for the additional request
                                                                                               or a condition whichever is greater
                                                                                               use or a
                                                                                               special use
                                                                                               (i.e., an
                                                                                               amendment to
                                                                                               the Village's
                                                                                               Official
                                                                                               Zoning Map).
Non-refundable   10-7-                                                                         Fee shall be established by resolution or
Application Fee  7  (A)  Non-refundable application fee(s) to be paid to the Village, due at   ordinance of the Village Board of Trustees
(s) for an       (6)     the time of application for annexation of property to the Village     on a case-by-case basis.
Annexation
Additional Non-  10-7-   Additional non-refundable fee(s) for any zoning relief, including but Fee(s) shall be established by resolution
refundable Fee   7  (A)  not limited to zoning text amendments, conditional use permits,       or ordinance of the Village Board of
(s) for Zoning   (7)     variations, appeals, and/or petitions for annexation                  Trustees.
Relief
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for violation of         Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Title 10, than $750.00 per day for each violation,
Title 10,        10-11-2 "Zoning Regulations", of this Village Code.                           and each day a violation exists or
"Zoning                                                                                        continues constitutes a separate offense.
Regulations"
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $200.00 per day, nor more
for violation of 11-1-9  Mandatory fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of Title 11, than $750.00 per day for each violation,
Title 11,        (D)     "Subdivision Regulations", of this Village Code.                      and each day a violation exists or
"Subdivision                                                                                   continues constitutes a separate offense.
Regulations"
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for 5      $200.00
                                                                                               acres or less
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for over 5
                                                                                               acres but not  $400.00
                                                                                               exceeding 10
                                                                                               acres
Non-refundable                                                                                 Non-refundable
Fee(s) for               Non-refundable fee to be paid to the Village at the time a            fee for 10
Review of a      11-2-2  preliminary plat is submitted to the Village for review.              acres but not  $600.00
Preliminary Plat                                                                               exceeding 20
                                                                                               acres
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for over   $1,000.00
                                                                                               20 acres
                                                                                               Non-refundable
                                                                                               fee for each
                                                                                               additional     $10.00 per acre
                                                                                               acre over 20
                                                                                               acres
                                                                                               For small developments where the site is
                                                                                               too small for a land dedication, a cash
Fee in Lieu of   11-2-   A fee in lieu of dedication of park sites shall be paid to the        contribution in lieu of land dedication is
Dedication of    4  (H)  Village prior to or simultaneous with final plat approval as a        required, the amount of which contribution
Park Sites       (2)     condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision.                 shall be calculated based upon a land
                                                                                               value of $80,000.00 per residential acre,
                                                                                               or such other amount as approved by the
                                                                                               Village Board from time to time.
Cash                                                                                           Such cash contribution shall be calculated
contribution and 11-2-   Cash contribution to be paid to the Village when a combination of a   based upon the criteria for requiring
Dedication of    4  (H)  cash contribution in lieu of land dedication, together with the       dedication and a cash contribution set
Land             (3)     dedication of land, is required.                                      forth in Subparagraphs (a) and (b) of
                                                                                               Paragraph 3.
                                                                                               The amount of the payments shall be
Payments to the                                                                                determined by the respective school
elementary               Each developer, permittee, and/or subdivider is required to make      district using generally accepted
school district  11-2-   payments to the elementary school district and to the high school     formulas, subject to approval by the
and the high     4  (I)  district in which the property is located to provide adequate         Village Board.
school district  (1)     schooling for pupils who will live within each dwelling unit.         Payments are required to be made at the
required                                                                                       time of final plat approval or at such
                                                                                               other times as set forth in Section
                                                                                               11-2-4 (1)(1) of this Village Code.
                                                                                               The amount of the transition fees to be
Payment of       11-2-   As a condition of all annexation agreements, and as a condition for   paid per dwelling unit shall be calculated
Transition Fee   4  (I)  new construction of a residential dwelling unit, the developer or     by determining the unfunded cost to
(s)              (2)     owner of vacant property shall pay certain transition fees to the     educate a student as more fully set forth
                         respective school district.                                           in Section
                                                                                               11-2-4 (1)(2) of this Village Code.
                                                                                               The amount of the cash escrow shall be
                                                                                               approved by the Village Board and
                                                                                               sufficient to ensure the necessary funds
                                                                                               to maintain, make any inspections, and
                                                                                               initiate any land management techniques
Cash Escrow      11-2-   As a condition precedent to final plat approval, a cash escrow shall  for a period of seven (7) years subsequent
Required         7  (F)  be deposited with the Village.                                        to final plat approval related to the
                 (1)                                                                           respective subdivision or development and
                                                                                               for other purposes as more fully set forth
                                                                                               in Section
                                                                                               11-2-7 (F). A special service area may be
                                                                                               created to fulfill such purposes after the
                                                                                               cash escrow is depleted.
                                                                                               Mandatory daily fine of $100.00 per day
Mandatory fine   11-4-   Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village by any subdivider or   for every day beyond the two (2) year
for failure to   1  (A)  developer for failure to complete and install all required public     period required for installation and
complete public  (1)     improvements pursuant to a related Statement of Agreement             approval by the Village of the public
improvements                                                                                   improvements, unless an extension of time
                                                                                               is granted by the Village.
                                                                                               The letter of credit shall be in a form
                                                                                               acceptable to the Village and in an amount
                                                                                               equal to one hundred twenty-five percent
                                                                                               (125%) of the estimated cost of
                                                                                               construction and maintenance of the
                 11-4-   As a condition for final approval of a plat, a letter of credit in a  required improvements, as determined by
Letter of Credit 1  (A)  form acceptable to the Village may be submitted by a developer to     the Village Engineer and approved by the
                 (2)     ensure completion of the public improvements within a development.    Village.
                                                                                               Ten percent (10%) of the improvement cost
                                                                                               shall be retained in a letter of credit
                                                                                               for a twenty-four (24) month guarantee
                                                                                               period after approval by the Village
                                                                                               Engineer of the installation and
                                                                                               completion of all improvements.
                                                                                               The amount of cash deposit or certified
Cash Deposit in  11-4-   In lieu of a letter of credit, a developer may deposit with the       check shall be equal to one hundred
Lieu of Letter   1  (A)  Village cash or a certified check to ensure completion of all         twenty-five percent (125%) of the
of Credit        (2)     required improvements                                                 estimated cost of construction and
                                                                                               maintenance of the required improvements
                                                                                               as determined by the Village Engineer.
Letter of Credit         If a developer elects to complete the required improvements prior to  The amount of the letter of credit shall
to Guarantee     11-4-   approval by the Village of the final plat, the developer may deposit  be equal to one hundred twenty-five
Restoration of   1  (A)  with the Village a letter of credit to guarantee restoration of the   percent (125%) of the estimated cost to
Site             (2)     site in the event that the improvements are not completed within two  restore the site as determined by the
                         (2) years of commencement of construction.                            Village Engineer.
Guarantee of     11-4-   After the required improvements are completed and before such         Such written guarantee shall guarantee the
Completed        1  (A)  improvements are accepted by the Village, the development shall       improvements against faulty workmanship
Improvements     (4)     furnish a written guarantee to the Village.                           and/or materials for a period of two (2)
                                                                                               years after acceptance by the Village.
Mandatory daily          Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for failure to install $100.00 per day until the subject public
fine for failure 11-4-   all public improvements within the required two (2) year period, or   improvements are installed, completed, and
to install       1  (B)  within any extension of such time period approved by the Village      approved by the Village Engineer and
public           (2)     Board.                                                                Village Board.
improvements
Inspection Fee   11-4-   A developer or subdivider is required to pay inspection fees as       The amount to be paid shall be as
(s) and          1  (C)  prescribed by the inspecting agency or by the Corporate Authorities   prescribed by the inspecting agency or by
Engineering      (6)     of the Village relative to the installation of the public             the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
Services                 improvements.
                                                                                               For the normal and customary subdivision
                                                                                               improvements, such as sewer, water, curb
                                                                                               and gutters, drainage structures, and
                                                                                               roads, the fee shall be a flat fee based
                                                                                               upon the Village Engineer's estimate of
                                                                                               the cost of such improvements, as follows:
                                                                                               For
                                                                                               improvements   Flat fee shall be 3.5
                                                                                               estimated to   percent of the estimated
                                                                                               cost           cost
Payment for      11-4-   A developer or subdivider is required to pay any and all fees for     $500,000.00
Engineering      1  (C)  engineering services as may be required relative to the installation  For
Services         (6)     of the improvements.                                                  improvements   Flat fee of $17,500.00 plus
                                                                                               estimated to   3.0 percent of the
                                                                                               cost between   estimated cost exceeding
                                                                                               $500,001.00    $500,000.00
                                                                                               and
                                                                                               $1,000,000.00
                                                                                               For
                                                                                               improvements   Flat fee of $32,500.00 plus
                                                                                               estimated to   2.5 percent of the
                                                                                               cost between   estimated cost exceeding
                                                                                               $1,000,001.00  $1,000,000.00
                                                                                               greater
Fees and cost                                                                                  Actual fees and costs incurred by the
for inspection                                                                                 Village and/or charged by the respective
of improvements          The developer is required to pay directly or reimburse the Village    inspection services and/or engineering
and review of    11-4-2  for all fees and costs related to inspections and review of any plans firm(s) and/or other agencies for any
plans and                and specifications.                                                   inspection(s) and review of any plans and
specifications                                                                                 specifications.
therefor
Payment of All                                                                                 All operating expenses to be paid by
Operating        12-3-2  The developer is required to pay all operating expenses for any year  developer for any year which exceeds the
Expenses                 which exceeds the developer's estimates for that year by 20%.         developer's estimates for that year by
                                                                                               20%.
Escrow                                                                                         [See Section
Established      12-3-7  Developer required to establish escrow account.                       12-3-7  for requirements relative to
                                                                                               escrow account.]
Mandatory fine                                                                                 Not less than $10.00 per day nor more than
for violation    12-4-1  Mandatory daily fine to be paid to the Village for a violation of     $500.00 per day for each violation, and
Title 12                 Title 12.                                                             each day a violation exists or continues
                                                                                               constitutes a separate offense.
 
(Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024; amd. Ord. 2025-03-01, 5-18-2025; Ord. 2025-04-03,
4-21-2025; Ord. 2025-05-05, 5-19-2025; Ord. 2025-07-04, 7-21-2025)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointments
2-1-2: General Duties
2-1-1: APPOINTMENTS:
There is hereby established the board of local improvements for the village,
which shall consist of the mayor and all members of the board of trustees.
(Ord. 74-3-1, 3-13-1974)
2-1-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The board of local improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or ordinance 1 . (Ord. 74-3-1, 3-13-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-7.
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Plan Commission Established; Duties
2-2-2: Residency
2-2-3: Membership; Terms
2-2-4: Compensation
2-2-5: Vacancies In Certain Appointed Offices
2-2-6: Powers And Duties Generally
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4, 5/3.1-30-5.
2-2-1: PLAN COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; DUTIES:
There shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
village board, a plan commission, which shall have all the duties and powers
conferred upon plan commissions by the statutes of the state of Illinois, the
zoning ordinance of the village and/or such additional duties and powers as may
be conferred from time to time by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2015-07-01, 7-22-2015)
2-2-2: RESIDENCY:
Members of the plan commission shall reside within Lake Villa or within
territory contiguous to Lake Villa and not more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits of Lake Villa, so long as their residence is
not located within any other municipality. (Ord. 2015-07-01, 7-22-2015)
2-2-3: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
The plan commission shall consist of a chair and six (6) other members; in
addition, the mayor shall be an ex officio and nonvoting member. Each member
shall be appointed for a term of five (5) years, except that the appointments
to said plan commission made during calendar year 2015 shall be as follows:
   A.   Chair for a five (5) year term;
   B.   One member for a one year term;
   C.   Two (2) members, each for a two (2) year term;
   D.   Two (2) members, each for a three (3) year term; and
   E.   One member for a four (4) year term. (Ord. 2015-07-01, 7-22-2015)
2-2-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the plan commission shall be compensated as follows for each plan
commission meeting they respectively attend:
   A.   Chair: Sixty dollars ($60.00) per meeting.
   B.   All other members: Forty five dollars ($45.00) per meeting. (Ord. 2015-
07-01, 7-22-2015)
2-2-5: VACANCIES IN CERTAIN APPOINTED OFFICES:
Vacancies in offices for the plan commission and any other permanent appointed
boards or commissions of the village established pursuant to Illinois statutes
or pursuant to this code shall be filled by appointment by the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the village board, in the following manner:
   A.   The respective term(s) of office of each appointee to any such board or
commission of the village shall be designated at the time of their respective
appointment(s).
   B.   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any office of any such board or commission
of the village, other than at the expiration of the designated term of that
member, the person appointed to fill that vacancy shall be appointed to fill
that specific member's seat for the remainder of the term (i.e., the unexpired
term) of the member that is being replaced, even if such term is not so
specified in the appointment.
   C.   If a member of any such board or commission of the village resigns, he
or she shall continue in office until a successor has been chosen and qualified
to fill such vacancy. If there is a failure to appoint a person to fill such
vacancy, when the term of a member of any such board or commission of the
village expires, or if the member of any such board or commission of the
village fails to qualify, the person filling that office shall continue to
serve as a member of that board or commission until a successor has been chosen
and qualified.
   D.   If a member of any such board or commission of the village ceases to
perform the duties of that office or fails to hold the office by reason of
death, permanent physical or mental disability, conviction of a disqualifying
crime, or dismissal from or abandonment of that office, the mayor may appoint a
temporary successor for that member. (Ord. 2015-07-01, 7-22-2015)
2-2-6: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The plan commission of the village of Lake Villa shall have such powers germane
to the powers granted by this chapter as may be conferred by the corporate
authorities and the following powers:
   A.   Prepare Official Plan: To prepare and recommend to the corporate
authorities a comprehensive plan for the present and future development of the
village.
   B.   Recommend Plan Changes: To recommend changes, from time to time, in the
official comprehensive plan.
   C.   Recommend Improvements: To prepare and recommend to the corporate
authorities, from time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of
the official comprehensive plan.
   D.   Assist Plan Implementation: To give aid to the municipal officials
charged with the direction of projects for improvements embraced within the
official plan, to further the making of these projects, and, generally, to
promote the realization of the official comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2015-07-01,
7-22-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Creation; Appointment
2-3-1.1: Terms
2-3-2: Powers And Duties
2-3-3: Compensation
2-3-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a commission of zoning which shall consist of seven (7)
members to be appointed with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
One member of this commission shall be designated as chairman. (Ord. 70-4-1, 4-
20-1970; amd. 1983 Code)
2-3-1.1: TERMS:
One member shall serve for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three (3)
years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six (6) years,
and one for seven (7) years with the successors to each member so appointed to
serve for a term of five (5) years. (Ord. 2003-10-1, 10-22-2003)
2-3-2: POWERS AND DUTIES 1 :
The commission shall prepare a tentative report and a proposed zoning ordinance
for the entire municipality. After the preparation of such a tentative report
and ordinance, the commission shall hold a hearing thereon and shall afford
persons interested an opportunity to be heard, all as provided by statute 2 .
(Ord. 70-4-1, 4-20-1970; amd. 1983 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code for zoning regulations.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-2.
2-3-3: COMPENSATION:
For each attended meeting:
   A.   Chairman: Sixty dollars ($60.00).
   B.   Secretary: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   C.   All other members: Forty five dollars ($45.00). (Ord. 2000-11-3, 11-8-
2000)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
(Ord. 2017-05-02, 5-24-2017)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-5-1: Police Pension Fund Established
2-5-2: Board Created
2-5-3: Board Meetings
2-5-4: Powers
2-5-5: Annual Report By Treasurer
2-5-6: Funds
2-5-1: POLICE PENSION FUND ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created and established a police pension fund in and for the
village, in accordance with 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
article 3 of the Illinois pension code. (Ord. 97-12-2, 12-10-1997)
2-5-2: BOARD CREATED:
A board of five (5) members shall constitute a board of trustees to administer
the pension fund and to designate the beneficiaries thereof. The board shall be
known as the "board of trustees of the Lake Villa police pension fund".
   A.   Two (2) members of the board shall be appointed by the mayor. The third
and fourth members of the board shall be elected from the active participants
of the pension fund by such active participants. The fifth member shall be
elected by and from the beneficiaries.
   B.   One of the members appointed by the mayor of the board of trustees
shall serve for one year beginning on the second Tuesday in May after the
village comes under this article. The other appointed member shall serve for
two (2) years beginning on the same date. Their successors shall serve for two
(2) years each or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
   C.   The election for board members shall be held biennially on the third
Monday in April, at such place or places in the village and under the
Australian ballot system and such other regulations as shall be prescribed by
the appointed members of the board.
   D.   The active pension fund participants shall be entitled to vote only for
the active participant members of the board. All beneficiaries of legal age may
vote only for the member chosen from among the beneficiaries. No person shall
be entitled to cast more than one ballot at such election. The term of elected
members shall be two (2) years, beginning on the second Tuesday of the first
May after the election.
   E.   Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected board
member, his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election, to be called by the board and conducted in the same manner as
the regular biennial election.
   F.   Members of the board shall neither receive nor have any right to
receive any salary from the pension fund for services performed as trustees in
that office. (Ord. 97-12-2, 12-10-1997)
2-5-3: BOARD MEETINGS:
The board shall hold annually regular quarterly meetings in July, October,
January, and April, and special meetings as called by the president.
   A.   At the regular July meeting, the board shall select from its members a
president, vice president, secretary, and assistant secretary to serve for one
year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
   B.   The vice president shall perform the duties of president during any
vacancy in that office, or during the president's absence from the village, or
if he or she is by reason of illness or other causes unable to perform the
duties of the office.
   C.   The assistant secretary shall act for the secretary whenever necessary
to discharge the functions of such office. (Ord. 97-12-2, 12-10-1997)
2-5-4: POWERS:
The board shall have all powers provided by law including the following:
   A.   To Control And Manage The Pension Fund: To control and manage,
exclusively, the pension fund, and all money donated, paid or assessed for the
pensioning of disabled and retired police officers, their surviving spouses,
minor children and dependent parents. All such monies shall be placed by the
treasurer of the village to the credit of the fund, subject to the order of the
board.
   B.   To Order Payments And Issue Certificates: To order the payment of
pensions and other benefits and to issue certificates signed by its president
and secretary to the beneficiaries stating the amount and purpose of the
payment.
   C.   To Submit Annual List Of Fund Payments: To submit annually to the board
of trustees at the close of the village's fiscal year, a list of persons
entitled to payments from the fund, stating the amount of payments, and their
purpose, as ordered by the board. It shall also include items of income accrued
to the fund during the fiscal year. The list shall be signed by the secretary
and president of the board, and attested under oath. A resolution or order for
the payment of money shall not be valid unless approved by a majority of the
board members, and signed by the president and secretary of the board.
   D.   To Draw And Invest Funds: To draw pension funds from the treasurer of
the village, and invest any part thereof in the name of the board in: 1)
interest bearing bonds or tax anticipation warrants of the United States, of
the state of Illinois, or of any county, township or municipal corporation of
the state; 2) insured withdrawable capital accounts of state chartered savings
and loan associations; 3) insured withdrawable capital accounts of federal
chartered federal savings and loan associations if the withdrawable capital
accounts are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation; 4)
insured investments in credit unions if the investments are insured by the
National Credit Union Administration; 5) savings accounts or certificates of
deposit of a national or state bank; 6) securities described in item 5.1 of
section 1-113 of the Illinois pension code, but only subject to the conditions
therein set forth; 7) contracts and agreements supplemental thereto providing
for investments in the general account of a life insurance company authorized
to do business in Illinois; 8) separate accounts of a life insurance company
authorized to do business in Illinois, comprised of common or preferred stocks,
bonds, or money market instruments; and 9) separate accounts managed by a life
insurance company authorized to do business in Illinois, comprised of real
estate or loans upon real estate secured by first or second mortgages. The
total investment in such separate accounts shall not exceed ten percent (10%)
of the aggregate book value of all investments owned by the fund. All
securities shall be deposited with the treasurer of the village, and be subject
to the order of the board. Interest on the investments shall be credited to the
pension fund. No bank or savings and loan association shall receive investment
funds as permitted by this section, unless it has complied with the
requirements established pursuant to section 6 of "an act relating to certain
investments of public funds by public agencies", approved July 23, 1943, as now
or hereafter amended. The limitations set forth in such section 6 shall be
applicable only at the time of investment and shall not require the liquidation
of any investment at any time.
   E.   To Subpoena Witnesses: To compel witnesses to attend and testify before
it upon all matters connected with the administration of this article, in the
manner provided by law for the taking of testimony in the circuit courts of
this state. The president, or any board member, may administer oaths to
witnesses.
   F.   To Appoint Clerk: To appoint a clerk and define his duties. No person
drawing a pension under this article shall be employed by the board.
   G.   To Pay Expenses: To provide for the payment from the fund of all
necessary expenses, including clerk hire, printing and witness fees.
   H.   To Keep Records: To keep a public record of all its proceedings.
   I.   To Make Rules: To make necessary rules and regulations in conformity
with the applicable statutes, and to publish and transmit copies from time to
time to all pensioners and contributors.
   J.   To Accept Donations: To accept by gift, grant, transfer, or bequest,
any money, real estate, or personal property. Such money and the proceeds from
the sale of or the income from such real estate or personal property shall be
paid into the pension fund. (Ord. 97-12-2, 12-10-1997)
2-5-5: ANNUAL REPORT BY TREASURER:
On the second Tuesday in May annually, the treasurer and all other officials of
the village who had the custody of any pension funds herein provided, shall
make a sworn statement to the pension board, and to the mayor and council or
president and board of trustees of the village, of all monies received and paid
out by them on account of the pension fund during the year, and of the amount
of funds then on hand and owing to the pension fund. All surplus then remaining
with any official other than the treasurer shall be paid to the treasurer of
the village. Upon demand of the pension board, any official shall furnish a
statement relative to the official method of collection or handling of the
pension funds. All books and records of that official shall be produced at any
time by him for examination and inspection by the board. (Ord. 97-12-2, 12-10-
1997)
2-5-6: FUNDS:
All monies and securities belonging to the fund shall be held by the village
treasurer subject to the order of the board of trustees of the Lake Villa
police pension fund. (Ord. 97-12-2, 12-10-1997)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Board Created
2-6-2: Board Members
2-6-3: Appointments
2-6-4: Vacancies
2-6-5: Chairman
2-6-6: Quorum
2-6-7: Qualifications, Oath, And Bond
2-6-8: Removal
2-6-9: Appointments Of Police Officers
2-6-10: Removal Of Police Officers
2-6-11: Rules
2-6-12: Attorney For Board
2-6-13: Annual Report
2-6-14: Secretary
2-6-15: Compensation
2-6-16: Jurisdiction
2-6-1: BOARD CREATED:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq., and all other
applicable authority, the board of police commissioners is hereby created.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-2: BOARD MEMBERS:
The board shall consist of three (3) members, whose terms of office shall be
three (3) years and until their respective successors are appointed and have
qualified. No such appointment, however, shall be made by the mayor within
thirty (30) days before the expiration of his term of office. (Ord. 2001-9-2,
9-12-2001)
2-6-3: APPOINTMENTS:
The mayor shall appoint the first members of the board. One of the members
shall be appointed to serve until the end of the then current municipal year,
another to serve until the end of the municipal year next ensuing, and the
third to serve until the end of the municipal year second next ensuing. But
every member shall serve until his successor is appointed and has qualified.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies on the board of police commissioners shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-5: CHAIRMAN:
The board members shall annually elect a chairman. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-6: QUORUM:
A majority of the board constitutes a quorum for the conduct of all business.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-7: QUALIFICATIONS, OATH, AND BOND:
The members of the board shall be considered officers of the municipality, and
shall file an oath and a fidelity bond in such amount as may be required by the
village board.
   A.   No person holding a village office shall be a member of the board of
police commissioners or the secretary thereof. The acceptance of any such
office by a member of the board shall be treated as a resignation of his office
as a member of the board or the secretary thereof.
   B.   No person shall be appointed a member of the board of police
commissioners who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of this state
or comparable laws of any other state or the United States.
   C.   No person shall be appointed a member of the board of police
commissioners who is related, either by blood or marriage up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected official of the village.
   D.   No more than two (2) members of the board shall belong to the same
political party existing in the village at the time of such appointments and as
defined in section 10-2 of the election code. If only one or no political party
exists in the village at the time of such appointments, then state or national
political party affiliations shall be considered in making such appointments.
Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of the person appointed as a
member of the board. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-8: REMOVAL:
Members shall not be subject to removal, except for cause, upon written
charges, and after an opportunity to be heard within thirty (30) days in his or
their own defense, before a regular meeting of the village board. A majority
vote of the village board shall be required to remove any such member from
office. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-9: APPOINTMENTS OF POLICE OFFICERS:
The board of police commissioners shall appoint all officers of the police
department, but excluding the chief of police. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-10: REMOVAL OF POLICE OFFICERS:
Except as hereinafter provided, no officer of the police department shall be
removed or discharged except for cause, upon written charges, and after an
opportunity to be heard in his own defense, but the chief of police may be
removed or discharged by the village board.
   A.   The board of police commissioners shall conduct a fair and impartial
hearing of the charges, to be commenced within thirty (30) days of the filing
thereof, which hearing may be continued from time to time.
   B.   In case an officer is found guilty, the board may discharge him, or may
suspend him not exceeding thirty (30) days without pay. The board may suspend
any officer pending the hearing with or without pay, but not to exceed thirty
(30) days. If the board of police commissioners determines that the charges are
not sustained, the officer shall be reimbursed for all wages withheld, if any.
   C.   In the conduct of the hearing, each member of the board shall have
power to administer oaths and affirmations, and the board shall have power to
secure by its subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of books and papers relevant to the hearing.
   D.   The provisions of the administrative review law and all amendments and
modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to
and govern all proceedings for the judicial review of final administrative
decisions of the board of police commissioners hereunder.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the chief of the
police department from suspending without pay a member of his department for a
period of not more than five (5) calendar days, but he shall notify the board
in writing of such suspension. Any officer so suspended may appeal to the board
of police commissioners for a review of the suspension within five (5) calendar
days after such suspension, and upon such appeal, the board may sustain the
action of the chief of the department, may reverse it with instructions that
the officer receive his pay for the period involved, or may suspend the officer
for an additional period of not more than thirty (30) days or discharge him,
depending upon the facts presented. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-11: RULES:
The board shall make rules to carry out the purpose of this chapter and for
appointments and removals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
The board, from time to time, may make changes in these rules. These rules of
the board shall apply only to the conduct of examinations for original
appointments, for promotions, and to the conduct of hearings on charges brought
against a member of the police department. No such rule shall be made by the
board to govern the operation of the police department or the conduct of its
members. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-12: ATTORNEY FOR BOARD:
Unless otherwise determined by the village board, the village attorney shall
represent the board. In any proceeding before the board which requires the
services of a prosecutor, the village prosecutor shall serve in that capacity.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-13: ANNUAL REPORT:
Annually, at any time the village board may provide, the board of police
commissioners shall submit to the mayor a report of its activities, and of the
rules in force and the practical effect thereof. In the report the board may
make suggestions which the board believes would result in greater efficiency in
the police department. The board shall also submit an annual budget request to
the village board prior to the end of each fiscal year. The mayor shall
transmit the report to the board of trustees. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-14: SECRETARY:
The board may employ a secretary, or may designate one of its own members to
act as secretary. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board's
proceedings, shall be the custodian of all records pertaining to the business
of the board, shall keep a record of all examinations held, shall perform all
other duties the board prescribes, and shall be custodian of the seal of the
board, if one is adopted, and the board is hereby authorized to adopt an
official seal and to prescribe the form thereof by resolution of the board.
(Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
2-6-15: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board of police commissioners shall be paid forty five dollars
($45.00) for each meeting attended, provided however that if a member also
serves as secretary he shall be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) for each meeting
attended. (Ord. 2003-01-01, 1-22-2003)
2-6-16: JURISDICTION:
The board's jurisdiction shall apply only to full time officers and not to any
other personnel of any kind or description. (Ord. 2001-9-2, 9-12-2001)
CHAPTER 7
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS PLAN
SECTION:
2-7-1: Establishment
2-7-2: Definitions
2-7-3: Coordinator; Assistant Coordinator(s)
2-7-4: Functions
2-7-5: Service As Mobile Support Team And Compensation Therefor
2-7-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-7-7: Emergency Action
2-7-8: Compensation
2-7-9: Reimbursement By The State And/Or By The Federal Government
2-7-10: Purchases And Expenditures
2-7-11: Oath
2-7-12: Emergency Operations Plan Approval
2-7-13: Emergency Powers Of The Mayor
2-7-14: Emergency Interim Executive Succession
2-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the Village of Lake Villa Emergency Services and
Disaster Agency ("ESDA"), the duties of which agency shall be to respond to any
declared "state of emergency", as hereinafter defined, and to prevent,
minimize, repair and/or alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster
caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or
man made disaster, in accordance with "The Illinois Emergency Services and
Disaster Act" (20 ILCS 3305, sometimes referred to herein as the "State Act"),
including but not limited to such events as fire, flood, earthquake, outbreak
of disease, epidemic, pandemic, and/or explosion. The Village ESDA shall
consist of the Coordinator, the Assistant Coordinator, and such additional
members as may be selected by the Coordinator. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
words and terms used in this Chapter have the respective meanings ascribed to
them in the State Act and/or in the Illinois Emergency Interim Executive
Session Act (5 ILCS 275), provided, however, whenever any of the following
terms are used in this Chapter, they shall have the meaning indicated.
                             Any attack or series of attacks by an enemy of the
                             United States causing, or which may cause,
                             substantial damage or injury to civilian property
ATTACK:                      or persons in the United States in any manner by
                             sabotage or by the use of bombs, missiles,
                             shellfire, or atomic, radiological, chemical,
                             bacteriological or biological means or other
                             weapons or processes.
                             Curfew shall mean that period of time during which
                             any person or persons are prohibited from being
                             present at or upon any public assembly, including
                             but not limited to any public building, place,
                             street, highway, right-of-way, and/or waterway,
                             including the prohibition of any vehicle movement,
CURFEW:                      with the exception of fire, police, hospital
                             services, utilities vehicles and physicians on
                             emergency cases and/or any officials of any
                             governmental unit and persons officially
                             designated to duty with reference to a state of
                             emergency duly declared by written executive order
                             pursuant to this Chapter.
                             An occurrence or threat of catastrophic and
                             widespread injury or loss of life or property
DISASTER:                    resulting from any natural or manmade cause,
                             including, but not limited to, fire, flood,
                             earthquake, outbreak of disease, epidemic,
                             pandemic, and explosion.
                             A person designated pursuant to this Section, in
                             the event the officer is unavailable, to exercise
                             the powers and discharge the duties of an office
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: until a successor is appointed or elected and
                             qualified as may be provided by the applicable
                             statutes and/or Village ordinances or until the
                             lawful incumbent is able to resume the exercise of
                             the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
                             Groups of over ten (10) persons which include one
HIGH-RISK GATHERING:         (1) or more members of high-risk populations, but
                             this shall not include or prohibit a gathering of
                             a single household or living unit.
                             Planned or spontaneous events or groups of persons
LARGE GROUP GATHERING:       with more than two hundred fifty (250) people in
                             attendance.
                             Planned or spontaneous events or groups of persons
MASS GATHERING:              with one thousand (1,000) or more people in
                             attendance.
                             Includes all Village offices, the powers and
OFFICE:                      duties of which are defined by the applicable
                             statutes and/or Village ordinances.
                             Planned or spontaneous event(s) or groups of
SMALL GROUP GATHERING:       persons with fifty (50) or more people in
                             attendance.
                             State of emergency shall mean circumstances
                             requiring immediate action as duly declared by
                             written executive order of the Governor or Mayor
                             due to an occurrence or threat of widespread or
                             severe damage, where extraordinary measures must
                             be taken to protect the public health, safety and
                             welfare from injury or loss of life or property
                             resulting from any natural or technological cause,
STATE OF EMERGENCY:          including but not limited to fire, flood,
                             earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous material spill
                             or water contamination requiring emergency action
                             to avert danger or damage, outbreak of disease,
                             epidemic and/or pandemic of infectious or
                             communicable disease, air contamination, blight,
                             extended periods of inclement weather, drought,
                             infestation, critical shortages of essential fuels
                             and energy, explosion, riot or hostile enemy,
                             military or paramilitary action.
                             Either a vacancy in office exists and there is no
                             deputy authorized to exercise all of the powers
                             and discharge the duties of the office, or the
                             lawful incumbent of the office (including any
UNAVAILABLE:                 deputy exercising the powers and discharging the
                             duties of an office because of a vacancy) and his
                             duly-authorized deputy are absent or unable to
                             exercise the powers and discharge the duties of
                             the office. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
 
2-7-3: COORDINATOR; ASSISTANT COORDINATOR(S):
The Village Administrator shall be the Coordinator of the Village ESDA and
shall serve as such Coordinator until and unless a different Coordinator is
appointed by the Mayor. The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training and operation of the Village's ESDA,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor as provided by Statute,
including but not limited to the coordination of damage assessments within the
Village. In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her, shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new Coordinator is appointed by the Mayor as
provided in this Chapter. The Director of Public Works and the Chief of Police
shall each serve as an Assistant ESDA Coordinator and shall perform such duties
as specified in the Emergency Operations Plan, and/or as assigned by the ESDA
Coordinator. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-4: FUNCTIONS:
The Village ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the Village as shall
be prescribed in the Village Emergency Operations Plan and by the State of
Illinois ESDA plan and program prepared by the Governor of the State of
Illinois ("Governor"), and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the Governor, and in addition, shall perform such duties outside
the corporate limits of the Village as may be required pursuant to any mutual
aid agreement with other political subdivision, municipality or quasi-
municipality entered into as provided by the State Act. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-
2020)
2-7-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM AND COMPENSATION THEREFOR:
All or any members of the Village's ESDA may be designated and serve as members
of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State ESDA as provided
by law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the Village ESDA. Any member of a mobile support team who is a
Village employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or
the State ESDA Director, shall receive the compensation and have the powers,
duties, rights and immunities incident to his or her employment with the
Village or Village office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive from the State such
reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other municipalities
or political subdivisions of the State, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Board of Trustees and by the State
Director of ESDA. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor or the Mayor declares that a state of emergency exists in the
event of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within
the State of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or
other hostile action, or from man made or natural disaster, it shall be the
duty of the Village ESDA to cooperate fully with the State ESDA, with the
applicable responding agencies, and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Village ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the Village,
if called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the
time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such Village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY THE STATE AND/OR BY THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
The Village Treasurer or Finance Committee Chairman may receive and allocate to
the appropriate fund, any reimbursement by the State and/or by the federal
government to the Village for expenses incident to training members of the
Village ESDA prescribed by the State Director of ESDA and/or by FEMA,
compensation for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team
while serving outside the Village in response to a call by the Governor or
State Director of ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by
the State and/or by the federal government incident to ESDA activities as
provided by law. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The Board of Trustees, on recommendation of the Coordinator, may
authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the Village in a
position to combat effectively any state of emergency, and to protect the
public health and safety, protect property and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, provided, however, it not possible,
practical, or convenient for the Board of Trustees to meet for this purpose,
the Village Administrator or the Village Treasurer shall authorize disbursement
of funds upon implementation of the Emergency Operations Plan in the event a
State of Emergency has been declared in the Village.
   B.   In the event of a state of emergency, enemy caused or other disaster,
the Coordinator is authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such
services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for the purpose
of effectively combating such disaster, in view of the exigency without regard
to the statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law
pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as authorized by the State Act;
provided, that if the Board of Trustees meets at such time, the Coordinator
shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-11: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village ESDA shall,
before entering upon his duties, subscribe on oath, as required by Statute,
which oath shall be filed with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-12: EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN APPROVAL:
That Emergency Operations Plan which is on file with the Village Clerk and
hereby incorporated by reference into this Village Code as if fully set forth
herein is hereby approved as a guideline for the Village to respond to a state
of emergency and to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from any such disasters caused by enemy action, sabotage, or other
hostile action, or from natural or man-made disaster, including but not limited
to such events as fire, flood, earthquake, outbreak of disease, epidemic,
pandemic, and/or explosion. To the extent the provisions of this Chapter and
the aforesaid Emergency Operations Plan are inconsistent, this Chapter shall
prevail and control. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-13: EMERGENCY POWERS OF THE MAYOR:
   A.    State Of Emergency:
      1.    Whenever a "state of emergency", as defined in this Chapter exists,
all circumstances shall be reported to the Mayor. The report shall include the
nature of the emergency, the geographic area or areas involved, and the
specific remedies requested.
      2.    The Mayor may declare a state of emergency by written executive
order containing a statement signed by the Mayor, under oath setting forth the
following:
         a.    One or more of the conditions which have been met for the
determination of a state of emergency;
         b.   Facts to substantiate such findings;
         c.   A description of the nature of the emergency; and
         d.   Declaration that the state of emergency exists.
      This statement must be filed with the Village Clerk as soon as
practicable.
      3.    The Mayor may exercise the extraordinary power and authority
granted in this Chapter when such a state of emergency exists but not until
after signing, under oath, the executive order.
   B.    Power And Authority Granted: Upon declaring a state of emergency, the
Mayor may:
      1.   Designate appropriate Emergency Operations Center(s) as identified
in the Emergency Operations Plan;
      2.   Order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the
Village or to the Village as a whole, as the Mayor deems reasonably necessary
to respond to the emergency, and applicable during such hours of the day or
night as the Mayor deems necessary in the interests of the public safety and
welfare;
      3.   Prohibit the intentional possession in public view of any firearm by
any person except a duly authorized law enforcement officer or military person
active in the official performance of his/her duty;
      4.   Order the establishment of curfews, including vehicle movement,
except fire, police, hospital services, utilities vehicles and physicians on
emergency cases, and/or order the closing of places of public assembly;
      5.   Prohibit the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages, with or
without payment, or the possession of any portable container containing any
alcoholic beverage by any person in a public place;
      6.   Order the closing of places of public assemblage and/or gathering,
on a case-by-case basis, based upon the different circumstances of each such
gathering or place to slow the transmission of communicable diseases, including
but not limited to restaurant(s), recreational center(s) and sports center(s);
      7.   Modify, postpone, cancel or ban mass gatherings, large group
gatherings, small group gatherings and/or high-risk gatherings to slow the
transmission of communicable diseases;
      8.   Prohibit the sale or transfer or possession of gasoline or other
combustion liquid except for the delivery directly into the tank of a motor
vehicle, boat, or other combustion-propelled vehicle;
      9.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   C.    Notification: Upon issuance of the executive order declaring a state
of emergency, the appropriate public official shall notify the news media
situated within the Village and shall cause a copy of the executive order
declaring the existence of the state of emergency to be posted, in a visible
place, at the Village of Lake Villa Village Hall and shall be posted on the
Village's website and the Village's social media accounts, if possible.
   D.    Duration: A declaration of a state of emergency shall expire not later
than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the Corporate Authorities
after a declaration of disaster and/or a state of emergency is declared, and
shall not be continued or renewed in excess of seven (7) days, except by or
with the consent of the Corporate Authorities of this Village.
   E.   Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter to the contrary, if
the Mayor is not available to declare a "state of emergency" and authorize the
implementation of this Plan, assume command of, or to direct the emergency
response operations, those responsibilities will fall to the next person in the
following line of succession:
      1.   Senior Village Trustee;
      2.   ESDA Coordinator (Village Administrator);
      3.   Assistant ESDA Coordinator (Chief of Police); and
      4.   Assistant ESDA Coordinator (Director of Public Works). (Ord. 2020-
03-02, 3-25-2020)
2-7-14: EMERGENCY INTERIM EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION:
   A.   Short Title: This Section shall be known and may be cited as the
"Emergency Interim Executive Succession Ordinance", and this Section is enacted
pursuant to the authority of the "Emergency Interim Executive Succession Act"
(5 ILCS 275).
   B.   Statement Of Policy: Because of the threats of attack upon the United
States of unprecedented size and destructiveness, and in order to, in the event
of such an attack, assure continuity of government through legally constituted
leadership, authority and responsibility in the offices of the government of
this Village, to provide for the effective operation of this Village government
during an emergency, to assure the continuity of this Village government in the
event of other natural or manmade disasters, including but not limited to such
events as fire, flood, earthquake, epidemic, pandemic, and/or explosion, and to
facilitate the early resumption of functions temporarily suspended, it is found
and declared to be necessary to provide for additional officers who can
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the incumbents thereof (and
their deputies, assistants or other subordinate officers authorized, pursuant
to law, to exercise all of the powers and discharge the duties of such offices,
hereinafter referred to as deputies) are unavailable to perform the duties and
functions of such offices.
   C.   Enabling Authority For Emergency Interim Successors For Village
Offices: With respect to Village offices for which the Board of Trustees of the
Village may hereafter enact such additional resolutions or ordinances relative
to the manner in which vacancies will be filled or temporary appointments to
office made from time to time as it deems appropriate in order to provide for
emergency interim successors to offices of the Village, but such resolutions
and ordinances shall not be inconsistent with the provision of this Section.
   D.   Emergency Interim Successors For Village Officers: Such officers,
subject to such regulations as the Mayor may issue from time to time, shall
designate by title (if feasible) or by named person, emergency interim
successors and specify their order of succession. The officer shall review and
revise, as necessary from time to time, designations made pursuant to this
Section to ensure their current status. The officer will designate a sufficient
number of persons so that there will be not less than three (3), nor more than
seven (7), deputies or emergency interim successors or any combination thereof,
at any time. In the event that any officer of the Village, or his deputy
provided for pursuant to law, is unavailable, the powers of the office shall be
exercised and duties shall be discharged by the designated emergency interim
successors in the order specified. The emergency interim successor shall
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which designated
until such time as a vacancy which may exist shall be filled in accordance with
the constitution or applicable statutes or ordinances, or until the officer, or
his deputy or a preceding emergency interim successor, again becomes available
to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of his office.
   E.   Emergency Interim Successors For The Office Of Mayor: Except as
otherwise designated in writing by the Mayor, the designated emergency interim
successors for the office of Mayor shall be that trustee of the Village then
holding such office who has the longest continuous tenure on the Board of
Trustees and who is present in the Village and available to serve as such an
emergency interim successor.
   F.   Formalities Of Taking Office: At the time of their designation,
emergency interim successors for any Village office shall take such oath as may
be required for them to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the
office to which they may succeed. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
no person, as a prerequisite to the exercise of the powers or discharge of the
duties of an office to which he succeeds, shall be required to comply with any
other provision of law relative to taking office.
   G.   Period In Which Authority May Be Exercised: Officials authorized to act
pursuant to this Section as emergency interim successors are empowered to
exercise the offices, powers, and discharge the duties of an office as herein
authorized only after an attack upon the United States and during a disaster
within the Village. The Board of Trustees may at any time terminate the
authority of such emergency interim successors to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of office as herein provided.
   H.   Removal Of Designees: Until such time as the persons designated as
emergency interim successors are authorized to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of an office in accordance with this Section, such persons
shall serve in their existing designated capacities at the pleasure of the
designating authority and may be removed or replaced by said designating
authority at any time, with or without cause. (Ord. 2020-03-02, 3-25-2020)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Purpose
3-1-3: Registration Required
3-1-4: Registration Form
3-1-5: Fees
3-1-6: Registration Certificate
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: Shall include any commercial, industrial, or business
use located in a building situated within the village.
PERSON: Shall mean and include any individual, corporation, association,
partnership, or any other legal entity. (Ord. 94-11-1, 11-9-1994)
3-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide sufficient information to the
village to enable the village to provide better life, health, and safety
services to business establishments and better security for them, as well as to
provide a means to facilitate emergency communications from the village to
owners of business establishments. (Ord. 94-11-1, 11-9-1994)
3-1-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Effective January 1, 1995, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
business establishment in the village without previously thereto having
obtained a registration certificate for said place of business from the village
clerk in accordance with the terms contained herein. (Ord. 94-11-1, 11-9-1994)
3-1-4: REGISTRATION FORM:
All owners of business establishments shall, on or before January 1 of each
calendar year, register with the village clerk each business establishment on
the form, which is approved from time to time by the village board, and
provided by the village clerk. The registration form shall include the
following information:
   A.   Name of business.
   B.   Address of business.
   C.   Owner of business.
   D.   Owner's address and emergency telephone number.
   E.   Hours of operation of business establishment.
   F.   Name and telephone number of alarm system company.
   G.   Name, address, and phone number of at least two (2) persons who have
keys to the business. (Ord. 94-11-1, 11-9-1994)
3-1-5: FEES:
The annual non-refundable fee for a registration certificate and each annual
renewal shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 94-11-1, 11-9-1994; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-1-6: REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE:
The village clerk shall, upon receipt of the registration form from the owner
of the business establishment, supply to that owner a registration certificate,
which shall be prominently displayed at the premises of the business
establishment. (Ord. 94-11-1, 11-9-1994)
LA381   3-2 ()
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-2-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-2-4: Municipal Replacement Vehicle Tax
3-2-5: Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
3-2-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this village at the
rate as specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code of
the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of Illinois
municipal code 1 .
   B.   Report: Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall
file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section three of “an act in relation to a tax
upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to
purchases for use or consumption” approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment Required: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month. (Ord. 421, 7-17-1967; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
3-2-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service at the rate as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code of the cost price of all tangible personal property
transferred by said servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property
or in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois municipal code 1 .
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall
file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by section nine of the “service occupation tax
act” approved July 10, 1961, as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 420,
9-2-1969; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions
of the Illinois municipal code 1  upon the privilege of using in the
municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code of the selling price of such tangible property with
selling price to have the meaning as defined in the use tax act, approved July
14, 1955.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois
department of revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid
before the title or certificate of registration for the personal property is
issued. (Ord. 74-10-2, 10-23-1974; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6.
3-2-4: MUNICIPAL REPLACEMENT VEHICLE TAX:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon each vehicle, as defined in section 1-146
of the Illinois vehicle code, purchased in the village by or on behalf of an
insurance company to replace a vehicle of an insured person in settlement of a
total loss claim. The tax shall be in the amount as specified from time to time
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per vehicle purchased.
   B.   Every such insurance company that purchases a replacement vehicle as
defined herein shall complete and file with the Illinois department of revenue
a replacement vehicle certificate (Form RVT-7).
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 84-3-1, 3-14-
1984, eff. 4-1-1984; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-2-5: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
    A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the Village of Lake Villa at
the rate as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code of the gross receipts from those sales made in the
course of that business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-23. of the Illinois Municipal Code. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-23.
   C.   The tax imposed by this Section
3-2-5 shall be remitted by such retailer to the Illinois Department of Revenue
(“the Department”). Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as
authorized by this Ordinance and any such tax collected by such retailer and
required to be remitted to the Department shall constitute a debt owed by the
retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller’s
tax liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge,
which charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any State
tax that sellers are required to collect,
   D.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 2022-11-05, 11-27-2022; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS; AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Reserved
3-3-3: Automatic Amusement Machines
3-3-4: Gambling Prohibited
3-3-5: Exception
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
AMUSEMENT: A. Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
swimming, racing, picnics, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball,
basketball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiard and pool games.
   B.   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including, without
being limited to, dancing, carnival, skating, swimming, racing, picnics, or
riding on animals or vehicles, amusement park rides and games, bowling,
billiard and pool games.
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT MACHINE: Any mechanical amusement machine or device, the
operation of which is governed or controlled by the deposit of a coin or token
including, without being limited thereto, any such coin controlled instrument
or device capable of producing or reproducing any vocal or instrumental sounds.
(Ord., 11-10-1982)
3-3-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 90-7-3, 7-25-1990)
3-3-3: AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT MACHINES:
   A.   License Fee; Issuance; Term: An annual non-refundable license fee in an
amount specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code is
imposed upon each automatic amusement machine used for gain or profit. Upon
payment of the annual fee, the village clerk shall issue a license in the name
of the owner as licensee, authorizing the use of the automatic amusement
machine for the license period ending on April 30 following the date of
issuance.
   B.   Payment Of Tax Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver
or install an automatic amusement machine within the village for use by any
other person for gain or profit from operation, unless the tax thereon has been
paid for the current year.
      It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain or use, or
permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon his premises of any
automatic amusement machine upon which such tax has not been paid and for which
a license has not been issued for the current year.
   C.   License Certificate Or Plate:
      1.   The village clerk shall deliver with each license a license
certificate or plate which shall bear the words "Automatic Amusement Machine"
and "Village Of Lake Villa" and the numerals designating the year for which
such license is issued, and a number identical with the number of each license.
The village clerk shall change annually the predominant background colors of
such license certificate or plate.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the licensee to display the license
certificate or plate in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the
licensed automatic amusement machine is located and it shall be unlawful for
any person to mutilate or remove said certificate or plate from the premises on
which the automatic amusement machine is located during the year for which it
is licensed. (Ord., 11-10-1982; amd. Ord. 2000-3-2, 3-22-2000; Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-3-4: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to utilize an automatic amusement machine or any
other coin operated amusement device for purposes of or in connection with the
wagering of money, goods, or merchandise dependent upon the use of manipulation
of the machine or device or otherwise for purposes of gambling.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to keep on his premises or operate or
permit to be kept on his premises or operated within this village any vending
or slot machine, or any video game machine with a free play feature operated by
a slot in which is deposited a coin or thing of value, or other device operated
by a slot in which is deposited a coin or thing of value for the play of poker,
blackjack, keno, lotto, bingo, or craps, or any machine or device used for
gambling or any punchboard, pull board, or other device pertaining to games of
chance of whatever name or kind, including those machines, boards, or other
devices that display different pictures, words, or symbols, at different plays
or different numbers, whether in words or figures or, which deposit tokens or
coins at regular intervals or in varying numbers to the player or in the
machine, but the provisions of this section do not extend to coin operated
nonpayout pin tables, in-line pin games, or to automatic weighing, measuring,
musical, and vending machines which are constructed as to give a certain
uniform and fair return in value for each coin deposited and in which there is
no element of chance. The term "video or mechanical gaming devices" means any
video poker machine, video or mechanical slot machine, video or mechanical
bingo machine, or other device which involves any game of chance or amusement
based upon poker, blackjack, dog racing, or horseracing, craps, any card or
dice game, or any similar device operated by means of the insertion of a coin,
token, slug currency, or similar object. (Ord. 2004-08-03, 8-11-2004)
3-3-5: EXCEPTION:
Section 3-3-4 of this chapter shall not apply to activities which are permitted
by state law and conducted in accordance with state law such as, but not
limited to, bingo and other activities run by charitable organizations. (Ord.
2004-08-03, 8-11-2004)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENT PARKS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definition
3-4-2: Licensing Provisions
3-4-3: License Fees
3-4-4: Compliance Required, Inspections
3-4-1: DEFINITION:
PUBLIC AMUSEMENT PARK: Any place, building, hall, land, or enclosure where the
general public may be admitted, either with or without the payment of a charge
or admission fee and where the public may engage in or witness the performance
of any amusement, exhibition, dance, entertainment, sport, or picnic. (Ord.
243, 4-4-1949)
3-4-2: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Required: No person shall operate or carry on a public amusement park
without first having obtained a license therefor.
   B.   Application: An application for said public amusement park license
shall be made in writing and shall state the name, address, and age of the
applicant and shall give the legal description of the property to be used and
whether the applicant is the owner or lessee thereof, and shall give a full
description of said premises and such other information as will show that the
applicant will not violate any local or state laws or regulations concerning
building, health, and fire prevention applicable thereto.
   C.   Expiration: Every license for public amusement parks shall expire on
April 30. (Ord. 243, 4-4-1949)
   D.   License Refusal Or Revocation: The mayor may refuse to grant any
license and may also revoke the same if issued, for noncompliance with any of
the provisions of this code. (Ord. 243, 4-4-1949; amd. 1983 Code)
3-4-3: LICENSE FEES:
The annual non-refundable license fee for each public amusement park shall be
graded according to size and capacity, which license fee shall be in those
amounts as specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code.
(Ord. 88-4-4, 4-27-1988; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-4-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED, INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of each person licensed to operate or carry on a public
amusement park to comply with all of the ordinances of the village regarding
building, health, sanitary and fire prevention applicable thereto. The village
marshal shall periodically inspect each public amusement park licensed under
this chapter, to determine whether the provisions of this chapter and all other
ordinances regarding building, health, sanitation, and fire prevention
respectively applicable thereto have been complied with. (Ord. 243, 4-4-1949)
CHAPTER 5
AUCTIONS, AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Licensing Provisions
3-5-2: Regulations Applied To Clerks
3-5-3: Prohibited Substitution Of Goods
3-5-4: Street Sale Permit
3-5-5: Location Change Permit
3-5-1: LICENSING PROVISIONS 1 :
   A.   Required License: All sales at public auction of goods, wares,
merchandise or other personal property within the village shall only be made by
a person or his authorized clerk, who shall have first obtained a license for
such purpose.
   B.   Exemptions From Licensing: Excepted from the requirement for a license
are sales such as may be made under and by virtue of legal process; sales of
the effects of a deceased person, when sold by the order of an executor or
administrator; or sale of the estate of a bankrupt or insolvent resident of
said village.
   C.   Application: Any person desiring to obtain a license under this chapter
shall make application in writing for the same to the Mayor of the Village,
setting forth in such application his proposed place of business, the names of
any partner or clerk who will be engaged with him in such business, the length
of time for which the license is desired and the names of his sureties.
   D.   Fees, Payment: For any person to become a licensed auctioneer to sell
personal property at public auction, at a place to be named in the license, he
shall pay to the Village Engineer an annual non-refundable license fee in an
amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, payable in advance. Licenses may be issued under
the provisions of this Chapter for three (3) months upon the payment of an
amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code but no such license shall be issued for a longer
period than one year, nor less than three (3) months. No such license shall
extend beyond April 30 after the date thereof.
   E.   Bond: For any person to become a licensed auctioneer he shall execute a
bond to the village, with sureties to be approved by the Mayor and board of
trustees, in the penal sum as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code conditioned for a strict compliance with the
ordinances of said village, and for the prompt payment of all monies and the
delivery of all goods that may come into his possession in his business, to the
person entitled to receive the same.
   F.   Issuance: If the Mayor grants such application the village clerk shall
issue the license to the petitioner upon his complying with all the provisions
of subsections D and E of this section.
   G.   Content: The said license shall designate who is permitted to do
business under and by virtue of the same, either as principal, agent or clerk,
and if any other is employed as agent or clerk to do business under such
license, the consent of the Mayor shall be first had and obtained and endorsed
on said license.
   H.   Revocation: All licenses shall be subject to revocation by the Mayor
whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the Mayor that the party so
licensed, his copartner or clerk, has violated any of the provisions of any
ordinance relating to auctions or auctioneers or any of the conditions of the
bond aforesaid. (Ord. 5, 5-13-1901; amd. 1983 Code; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title for general licensing provisions.
3-5-2: REGULATIONS APPLIED TO CLERKS:
All the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the copartner or clerk of the
holder of said license while acting as auctioneer, and such copartner and
clerk, so acting as auctioneer, shall be subject to all the penalties hereby
imposed on auctioneers for like offenses or violations of this chapter. (Ord.
5, 5-13-1901)
3-5-3: PROHIBITED SUBSTITUTION OF GOODS:
Any auctioneer who shall exhibit and offer for sale at auction any article or
induce its purchase by any bidder, and who shall afterwards substitute any
articles in lieu of that offered to and purchased by the bidder, shall forfeit
his license, and shall be subject to a penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00). (Ord. 5, 5-13-1901; amd. 1983 Code)
3-5-4: STREET SALE PERMIT:
No auctioneer shall sell or offer for sale at public auction any goods,
chattels or other personal property, in any street, avenue, alley or other
public place in the village without first having obtained a permit from the
president so to do. (Ord. 5, 5-13-1901)
3-5-5: LOCATION CHANGE PERMIT:
Any person having a license as auctioneer in the village shall be allowed to
sell goods at auction at a place other than that set forth in his license by
first obtaining a permit therefor from the president. (Ord. 5, 5-13-1901)
CHAPTER 6
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Licensing Provisions
3-6-2: License Fees
3-6-3: Licensee Responsibility And Requirements
3-6-4: Analysis And Inspection
3-6-5: Special Requirements; Dairy Machines
3-6-1: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Required License: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of selling or offering for sale any cigarettes, tobacco, milk, coffee,
beverages, novelties or trinkets of any nature, candies, gum, cookies, pies,
sandwiches, ice cream, groceries and other food products, or other items of
food or ice (cubes by bag or block of ice by bulk), by means of any vending
machine, automatic vending machine, coin controlled or coin operated machine or
other mechanical device without first having secured a license as herein
required.
   B.   Application: Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing
and shall contain the following information:
      The number of machines for which application is made.
      The serial number, brand name and type, size and capacity of each
machine.
      The name of the owner of the machine, the owner's address and telephone
number.
      The type of food, beverages or other products to be dispensed from each
vending machine.
      The manufacturing or distributing company of the product dispensed in
each machine whenever the product consists of milk or dairy products.
      The type of refrigeration and manner of testing the temperature of each
machine vending or dispensing milk or dairy products.
   C.   Consent: The owner, lessee, tenant or proprietor of the premises
wherein such machine shall be located shall submit with the application
aforesaid, in writing, his consent to the placing of said vending machine in
the premises, fully describing in said consent the exact location of said
machine, a description of said machine and a description of the type of
products which shall be dispensed or sold through said machine.
   D.   Guarantee: Accompanying such application and consent, the owner,
lessee, tenant or proprietor of said premises shall guarantee to the village
payment of any and all license fees duly imposed upon said vending machines by
the village for the period during which such vending machines shall be located
on said premises. (Ord. 74-6-3, 6-12-1974)
3-6-2: LICENSE FEES:
An annual non-refundable license fee shall be paid to the Village per vending
machine for such license at the time of application which fee shall be in an
amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2000-3-2, 3-22-2000; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-6-3: LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY AND REQUIREMENTS:
The owner, lessee, tenant or proprietor of the premises in and whereupon such
vending machines are located shall be held responsible for the payment of any
and all duly imposed license fees which may be due and owing by virtue of the
provisions hereof, and which have not been paid by the owners of said vending
machines. (Ord. 74-6-3, 6-12-1974)
3-6-4: ANALYSIS AND INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the                     , or person designated by the
village board, to inspect all such vending machines at least once every two (2)
months to determine if they are kept in a good state of repair and if they are
in a clean and sanitary condition and if the merchandise or food products
offered for sale are pure and wholesome. In addition, whenever any outside milk
or dairy vending machine is licensed hereunder, weekly temperature reports
shall be submitted by the owner or permittee for said machine as to the testing
of the temperature control and operation of said vending machine.
If, upon an inspection of any such vending machine, it is found to be unsafe or
in need of repairs and is not maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, and
if the merchandise offered for sale is not pure and wholesome, the owner or the
person maintaining such vending machine shall be notified in writing by the
village clerk, or person designated by the village board, that such machine is
unsafe, or in need of repairs, or is not maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, and that the merchandise therein is impure and unwholesome, and such
owner or person maintaining said vending machine shall, within five (5) days of
receipt of such notice, make such vending machine safe or make the necessary
repairs as recommended, or shall remove the spoiled and unwholesome food. (Ord.
74-6-3, 6-12-1974)
3-6-5: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS; DAIRY MACHINES:
   A.   No application for an outside vending machine for the sale or
dispensing of milk or dairy products shall be granted unless the following are
complied with:
      1.   A plot plan is submitted with the application showing the proposed
location of the milk or dairy vending machine disclosing the following
information:
         a.   Complete dimensions of the vending machine.
         b.   Its location with reference to the lot line of the lot or parcel
of real estate on which said machine is to be located.
         c.   Drawing showing the proposed lighting for the machine and the
surrounding area.
         d.   The name and address of the titleholder of the real estate on
which said machine is to be located.
         e.   The parking area designated for patrons or customers using said
machine, which shall be for a minimum of two (2) automobiles.
         f.   The ingress and egress for motor vehicles onto said property
wherein said machine is located.
   B.   No license for a milk or dairy product vending machine shall be issued
if any one or more of the following are not complied with:
      1.   The area in which said machine is to be located must be in an area
zoned for a business use under the zoning provisions of the Lake Villa zoning
ordinance.
      2.   Each such vending machine shall be set back from the front lot line
at least twenty feet (20') and from the side lot lines at least five feet (5').
      3.   Sufficient parking must be located on the real estate whereon said
vending machine is to be located for two (2) motor vehicles in accordance with
the dimensions required under the zoning provisions of the Lake Villa zoning
ordinance per parking place.
      4.   Adequate ingress and egress from and to the village street must be
provided for providing for one lane for ingress and one lane for egress to the
village street.
      5.   At least five-tenths (0.5) foot-candle of illumination at the ground
surface whereat said machine is located shall be provided.
      6.   The postal address and telephone number of the permittee or licensee
of the machine shall be posted on the machine.
      7.   A temperature gauge located on the outside exterior of the machine,
which temperature gauge is to register the interior temperature of the vending
machine. (Ord. 74-6-3, 6-12-1974)
CHAPTER 7
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS; SERVICES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Exemptions
3-7-3: Massage Establishment License Required
3-7-4: Application For Massage Establishment License; Term
3-7-5: Limitations And Restrictions On Issuance And Renewal Of License
3-7-6: Review By Mayor Of Denial Of License
3-7-7: Regulations Applicable To Employees
3-7-8: Facility Requirements
3-7-9: Operating Requirements
3-7-10: Change Of Location Or Manager; Transfer Of License
3-7-11: Employment Of Massage Therapist Required
3-7-12: Unlawful Acts
3-7-13: Inspections
3-7-14: Suspension Or Revocation Of Establishment License
3-7-15: Violations; Penalties
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
APPLICANT: The applicant for any massage establishment license shall mean and
include, but shall not be limited to, any person (as herein defined) who
applies to the Village for a license to permit the establishment, operation,
and maintenance of a massage establishment on property located within the
corporate limits of the Village, which term shall include but not be limited to
any partner or limited partner of a partnership applicant, any officer or
director of a corporate applicant, any stockholder holding more than five
percent (5%) of the stock of a corporate applicant, and any member or any
manager of any limited liability company.
EMPLOYEE: Any and all persons other than the massage therapist, who render any
service to the licensee, who work on the premises and/or who receive
compensation directly or indirectly from the licensee, and who have physical
contact with customers and clients.
LICENSE: A massage establishment license as provided in this chapter.
LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who holds a current, valid massage
therapist license issued by the State of Illinois pursuant to the Illinois
Massage Therapy Licensing Act and who, for any consideration whatsoever,
engages in the practice of "massage" as herein defined, whether or not there is
any consideration provided in every specific massage.
LICENSEE: The person to whom or entity to which a license is issued by the
Village pursuant to this chapter to permit the establishment, operation, and
maintenance of a massage establishment within the Village.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts
of the body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliance, or by the application of air, liquid, or vapor baths of
any kind, with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol,
liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other
similar preparations commonly used in this practice.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of "massage" as defined in this section,
and which has a fixed place of business where any person engages in, or carries
on, or permits to be engaged in or carried on any of the activities or
practices of "massage" as defined in this section.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who engages in the practice of "massage" as
herein defined, whether or not there is any consideration provided in every
specific massage.
OUTCALL MASSAGE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or carry
on massage at a location other than a licensed massage establishment.
PATRON: An individual who receives a massage at a massage establishment under
such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money
or give any other consideration therefor.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, limited
liability company, corporation, or combination of individuals of any form, kind
or character whatsoever, or any other legal entity.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or perineum of
any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-2: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply and no license shall be
required for any units of government, hospitals, nursing homes, and sanatoriums
or for any individual while engaged in the personal performance of their
respective professions, provided such individual is holding a current, valid
(i.e., not suspended or revoked) license or certificate to practice certain of
the healing arts under the laws of the State of Illinois (i.e., physicians,
surgeons, dentists, chiropractors, naprapaths, osteopaths, physical therapists,
nurses, and athletic trainer licensees who administer athletic related massages
in the normal course of training duties and who are registered with the State
of Illinois) ("a licensed professional in the healing arts") or to any massage
therapist(s) holding a current, valid massage therapy license from the State of
Illinois working under the direction of any such licensed professional in the
healing arts if such licensed professional in the healing arts executes and
files with the Village an affidavit stating that the person(s) employed by them
to provide massage therapy on their premises are and will remain duly licensed
by the State of Illinois as a massage therapist and will work only under the
direct supervision of such a licensed professional in the healing arts and only
while such a licensed professional in the healing arts is and remains present
on the premises.
   B.   No license shall be required for any barber, beautician or
cosmetologist lawfully carrying on their respective businesses to the extent
authorized under a valid unrevoked license or certificate of registration
issued by the State of Illinois. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this exemption
is only intended to permit normal and customary barber, beautician or
cosmetologist services which involve incidental physical contact, such as hair,
scalp and neck rubs and facials, which would otherwise qualify as a massage.
This exemption is not intended to, and does not permit massage activities as
part of any barber, beautician or cosmetologist business beyond that authorized
by their respective Illinois license or certification. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-
2017)
3-7-3: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the Village, the business of operating a massage establishment without first
having obtained a valid and current license therefor issued by the Village
Administrator pursuant to the terms of this chapter. A separate license shall
be required for each massage establishment location regardless of whether such
multiple establishments are operated by the same person. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-
12-2017)
3-7-4: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE; TERM:
   A.   Application: An application for a massage establishment license as
required in this chapter shall be filed with the Village Administrator, upon a
form provided by said Village Administrator, together with the payment to the
Village of a non-refundable application fee for each location in an amount as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The application shall be fully and accurately
completed and signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly
authorized agent thereof, if not an individual, verified by oath or affidavit,
that all of the information in the application is complete, true and correct
and shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   For each applicant, the full name, home address with zip code,
social security number, date of birth, sex and a physical description of the
applicant including height, weight, and color of hair and eyes.
      2.   All residential addresses of each applicant for the past ten (10)
years.
      3.   The application must be accompanied by written proof that each of
the applicant(s) is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      4.   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation, or otherwise.
      5.   The exact name of the entity under which the business is to be
conducted and any "doing business as" ("d/b/a") assumed name(s).
      6.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license as well as all telephone numbers
where the business is to be operated.
         a.   If a leased premises, a copy of the lease shall be provided. The
term of such lease must not end until after the expiration date of the license
for which application is being made.
         b.   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises, and, if
said premises is held in trust, the names and addresses of all the owners of
the beneficial interest of a trust.
         c.   Whether any other activities or business will be conducted at the
same location and the physical facilities to be used.
      7.   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment
shall set forth the exact nature of the massage to be administered, and the
proposed place of business and facilities therefor.
      8.   The business, occupation or employment of each applicant for the ten
(10) years immediately preceding the date of application.
      9.   The massage or similar business license history of each applicant;
whether such person, in previously operating in this or another city or state
under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the reason therefor,
and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension
or revocation.
      10.   Whether each applicant has committed any crime or ordinance
violation(s) resulting in conviction(s), finding(s) of guilt, default judgment,
forfeiture of bonds, or finding of liability, except traffic offenses, within
the last ten (10) years.
      11.   The fingerprints and photograph of each of the applicant(s).
      12.   The date of formation of the partnership, if a partnership, the
date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation or an Illinois limited
liability company, or the date of becoming qualified under the Illinois
Business Corporation Act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1.01 et seq., to
transact business in Illinois, if a foreign (out of State) entity.
      13.   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all
licensed massage therapists and of all other employees employed by the business
and the names and residence addresses of all managers, assistant managers or
other persons principally in charge of the operation of the business.
      14.   The business, occupation, and employment of applicant, if an
individual, for three (3) years preceding the date of application.
      15.   Whether applicant ever made an application for a license under this
chapter, or a massage business license or similar license to a state or county,
city, village or other unit of local government, and if so, where and when, and
if such application was granted or denied, and if such application was denied,
the reasons for the denial.
      16.   Whether a license was ever issued to the applicant under this
chapter or a massage business license or similar license was ever issued by any
state or county, city or village or other unit of local government, and if so,
where and when, and if such license has ever been suspended or revoked and the
reasons for the suspension or revocation.
      17.   Whether the applicant has ever pled guilty to or liable for or been
found guilty of or liable for a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter or any ordinance of any municipality or unit of government which
regulates massage establishments or the providing of massages, or any statute
regulating massage establishments by a court or an administrative tribunal.
      18.   A complete statement of all instances in which the applicant has
pled guilty or has been found guilty or has been found liable under the laws of
any state or under the laws of the United States as provided in this section,
or under the ordinances of any municipality. If the applicant is a corporation,
the statement shall include all of the applicant's officers, directors and
managing agents, and any stockholder(s). If the applicant is a partnership,
such statement shall include all general partners and any limited partner. If
the applicant is a limited liability company, the statement shall include all
managers and members. Such listing shall include but not be limited to the
following:
         a.   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or other
sex offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.
         b.   Any felony based upon conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity.
         c.   Any felony unrelated to conduct or involvement in such related
business activity or similar business activity, but which felony involved the
use of a deadly weapon, traffic in narcotic drugs or controlled substances, or
violence against another person, including rape or other sexual misconduct.
         d.   All misdemeanor and ordinance violation(s) of each applicant and
of each business entity with which the applicant has been associated for the
past ten (10) years.
   B.   Fingerprinting: Except in the case of an application for a renewal of a
license and fingerprints are on file for all persons who are required to
provide a complete set of fingerprints, the applicant shall submit a complete
set of fingerprints with the application. If the applicant is a corporation,
fingerprints must be submitted for each officer, director, stockholder and
managing agent of the corporation. If the applicant is a partnership,
fingerprints must be submitted for each general and limited partner. If the
applicant is a limited liability company, fingerprints must be submitted for
each general and limited partner and managing partner. The owners, partners and
principal managers of any other legal entity entitled to do business in the
State shall also be fingerprinted. The Village may, in its sole discretion,
either require the applicant to have his fingerprints taken and submitted for
processing by the Illinois Department of Law Enforcement/Illinois State Police
and direct that the results be sent directly to the Village, in care of the
Chief of Police, or the Village may require that all such fingerprinting shall
be done by the Village Police Department. If the Village does the
fingerprinting, then the fingerprints shall be submitted to the appropriate
State and/or Federal agencies for processing as available. The cost of
fingerprinting shall be paid by the applicant in addition to any application or
license fee.
   C.   Written Authorization: The applicant shall submit a written
authorization for the Village, its agents and employees to seek information and
conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the
application and the qualifications of the applicant for a license.
   D.   Identification: The applicant shall submit a copy of identification
which shall include, but shall not be limited to, a driver's license, if any,
and a social security card and two (2) copies of a current portrait photograph
of the applicant at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2"). The portrait
shall include the head and shoulder area with the face forward pose. A new and
current portrait shall be required with each renewal application. If the
applicant is a corporation, the identification and the portrait must be
submitted for each officer, director, stockholder and managing agent of the
corporation. The Village, in its sole discretion, may require that any portrait
photograph required by these provisions be taken by the Village Police
Department. If the applicant is a partnership, the identification and portrait
must be submitted for each partner, whether general or limited.
   E.   Additional Information: The applicant shall submit such other
information, documentation, and identification of the applicant as the Village
Administrator, or a Village employee designated by him, and/or the Chief of
Police shall deem necessary to determine the identity of the applicant or to
process the application.
   F.   Notification; Inspection: The Village Administrator shall forward
copies of the application to the Building Department and Police Department.
Each department shall inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage
establishment and make written findings to the Village Administrator concerning
compliance with this Code.
   G.   Issuance: Upon receipt of the findings and recommendation of each
department, the Village Administrator shall issue a license to establish,
operate, maintain and/or conduct a massage establishment, unless it is found
that the applicant(s), or any of them, is ineligible to receive such license
pursuant to subsection 3-7-5D of this chapter.
   H.   Term: Every massage establishment license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall expire on April 30 following issuance of the license, unless
sooner suspended, revoked, or renewed pursuant to provisions of this chapter.
   I.   Display: Every licensee shall display a valid and current massage
establishment license in a conspicuous place within the massage establishment
so that the same may be readily seen by persons entering the premises.
   J.   Renewal: Applications for renewal of a massage establishment license
must be filed with the Village Administrator not more than sixty (60) days nor
less than thirty (30) days prior to expiration of an existing license, and such
application(s) must be accompanied by a non-refundable fee payable to the
Village for renewal of such license for each location in an amount as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-7-5: LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicants: Upon receipt of a fully, properly, and
accurately completed application including payment in full of all fees in
connection therewith for a massage establishment license, the Village
Administrator, or a Village employee designated by him, shall submit the
completed application to the Chief of Police for evaluation. Upon receiving the
application for a massage establishment license, the Chief of Police shall
conduct an investigation.
   B.   Inspection Of Premises; Recommendations: In the case of an application
for a massage establishment license, the Chief of Police shall cause and the
applicant shall permit the premises to be licensed to be inspected by or on
behalf of the Village, the Fire Department, the Building Department, the
appropriate health inspector and any other applicable department or inspector
to assure that the proposed operation complies with all applicable laws,
including Building, Electrical, Plumbing, Health, Housing, Zoning, and Fire
Codes, of the Village and any other regulations of the Village relating to the
public health, safety and welfare. The appropriate departments and/or
inspectors shall inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage
establishment, make an investigation of the application and make written
recommendations to the Chief of Police concerning compliance with Village codes
and Federal or State laws. The Chief of Police shall promptly deliver to the
Village Administrator, or a Village employee designated by him, all of the
written recommendations along with his written recommendation with respect to
whether the application for a license should be approved, denied or held for
further review.
   C.   Issuance/Denial Of License: Within sixty (60) days of the date that a
fully completed application, including payment of all fees therefor, is filed,
the Village Administrator, or a Village employee designated by him, shall issue
a license if he or she has received a recommendation of approval from the Chief
of Police and provided that all of the requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied, or the Village Administrator, or a Village employee designated by
him, shall notify the applicant(s) in writing that the application has been
denied or is held for further review. The period of such additional review
shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) days unless otherwise agreed to by
the applicant(s). Upon the conclusion of such additional review, and after
receiving the above described written recommendations from the Chief of Police,
the Village Administrator, or a Village employee designated by him, shall
advise the applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied
consistent with the recommendation of the Chief of Police. The license shall be
denied if the applicant(s) fail(s) to comply with the requirements of this
chapter or with the requirements of any other provision of this Code which is
applicable to the business and/or activities of the applicant.
   D.   Conditions Of Denial And/Or Renewal:
      1.   No massage establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
         a.   An applicant who has pled guilty to, or has been found guilty of,
or liable by a court or by any administrative tribunal, for any one (1) or more
of the following offenses:
            (1)   Any offense involving sexual misconduct with children or
other sex offenses as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq.,
and/or any offense involving prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute,
pandering, keeping a place of prostitution, pimping or other offense opposed to
decency and morality, or has been convicted of or has pled guilty to a reduced
charge related to any of the foregoing, and/or any offense involving the
licensing and/or regulation of a massage establishment or massage therapist(s).
            (2)   Any felony within the past ten (10) years.
            (3)   Any misdemeanor or ordinance violation based upon conduct or
involvement in such related business activity or similar business activity
within the past ten (10) years of the date of the application.
            (4)   The denial, suspension or revocation of such a similar
license held by any of the applicant(s) by any state or other unit of local
government within two (2) years of the date of the present application.
         b.   An applicant whose license issued under this chapter has been
revoked for cause or the applicant has pled guilty to or has been found guilty
of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
         c.   An applicant who at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
         d.   An applicant under the age of eighteen (18) years of age.
         e.   An applicant who employs anyone under eighteen (18) years of age.
         f.   An applicant who has failed to submit a complete application and
who has failed to cure any defect(s) in said application within ten (10) days
after written notice of any such failure to cure.
         g.   An applicant who has pled guilty to, found guilty of, or found
liable for any other criminal offense or ordinance violation involving
dishonesty, fraud, deceit or moral turpitude within ten (10) years of the date
of the application.
         h.   An applicant who has had any massage establishment license, or
massage therapist license, denied, revoked, or suspended within two (2) years
prior to the date of the application.
      2.   In addition to the provisions in subsection D1 of this section, no
massage establishment license shall be issued to or renewed for:
         a.   An applicant whose place of business is conducted by a manager
unless the manager possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee.
         b.   An applicant who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
         c.   A partnership, if any general partners thereof, or any limited
partner owning any interest in such partnership, or an LLC, if any member or
manager has pled guilty to, or liable for, or has been found guilty of, or
liable by a court or by an administrative tribunal for any one (1) or more of
the offenses listed in this chapter.
         d.   A corporation, if any officer or director or any stockholder(s)
owning any of the stock of such corporation has pled guilty to, or liable for,
or has been found guilty of, or liable by a court or an administrative tribunal
for any one (1) or more of the offenses listed in this chapter.
         e.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business
Corporation Act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1.01 et seq., to transact
business in Illinois.
         f.   An applicant if the premises in which the massage establishment
is to be operated shall not be in compliance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of the Village, including, but not limited to, Zoning, Building, and
Life Safety Codes. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-6: REVIEW BY MAYOR OF DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The denial by the Village Administrator, or a Village employee designated by
him, to issue a license pursuant to an application made therefor shall be
subject to review by the Mayor of the Village, provided that a request for such
review is made in writing by the applicant to the Mayor within ten (10) days of
the issuance by U.S. mail to the applicant(s) of the written denial of the
application. The Mayor shall conduct a hearing to review the application
submitted to the Village by the applicant, the report of the Chief of Police
and/or any other reports of inspections made and of any other relevant facts
and evidence determined. The applicant(s) may present any relevant evidence in
support of his, her, or its request that the denial of the application be
reviewed and reversed. The Mayor shall determine whether the denial of the
application shall be affirmed or whether the denial shall be reversed and the
application approved. If the Mayor reverses the decision and approves the
application, the license applied for shall be issued. The decision of the Mayor
to affirm the denial of the application shall be final and subject to judicial
review only by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-7: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO EMPLOYEES:
The following regulations shall be applicable to all massage establishment
licensees:
   A.   Massage therapists and all other employees and agents of a massage
establishment are required to be at least eighteen (18) years of age and are
required to wear clean, nontransparent outer garments covering their sexual and
genital areas which shall include the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or
perineum of any person or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   B.   The sexual or genital areas of patrons shall be completely covered at
all times by towels, cloths or undergarments when in the presence of an
employee of the massage establishment or in the presence of any massage
therapist on the premises.
   C.   No massage therapist or employee or agent of a massage establishment
shall place his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his or her body,
with intent to fondle in any manner, a sexual or genital area of any other
person.
   D.   No massage therapist or employee or agent of a massage establishment
shall perform, offer or agree to perform any act which would require the
touching of a patron's genital or sexual area.
   E.   No massage therapist or employee or agent of a massage establishment
shall administer a massage to any part of a patron's body which exhibits any
skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption, unless a
physician duly licensed by the State certifies in writing that such persons may
be safely massaged, and which prescribes the conditions thereof.
   F.   The occurrence of any event which would render the holder of a massage
establishment license or massage therapist license unqualified for issuance of
such license pursuant to this chapter shall be grounds for revocation or
suspension of the existing license.
   G.   Any license issued under this chapter shall be displayed in a
conspicuous location within the customer area of a licensed massage
establishment. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-8: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the Village reveals that the establishment complies with each of
the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Premises Generally: The massage establishment premises shall be in
compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances of the Village, including,
but not limited to, Zoning, Building and Life Safety Codes.
   B.   Electrical Requirements: All electrical equipment shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements of the Village Electrical Code.
   C.   Waterproof Construction; Plumbing Requirements:
      1.   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the Village Building Code. Plumbing fixtures
shall be installed in accordance with the Village Plumbing Code.
      2.   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have waterproof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the Village.
      3.   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
(1) or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. (Exception: Dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.)
      4.   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
   D.   Disinfection And Sterilization Equipment: The premises shall have
adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing nondisposable instruments
and materials used in administering massages. Such nondisposable instruments
and materials shall be disinfected after use on each patron.
   E.   Storage Of Linens:
      1.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels, and other materials used in connection with administering
massages.
      2.   All soiled linens, towels, and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
   F.   Toilet Facilities:
      1.   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations.
      2.   At a minimum, a single unisex water closet shall be provided in an
establishment when less than twenty (20) (in the aggregate) employees and
patrons of different sexes are reasonably calculated to be on the premises at
the same time.
      3.   When twenty (20) or more (in the aggregate) employees and patrons of
different sexes are reasonably calculated to be on the premises at the same
time, the following shall be applicable: Separate toilet facilities shall be
provided for each sex. A single water closet per sex shall be provided for each
twenty (20) or more employees or patrons of that sex on the premises at any one
time.
   G.   Lavatories Or Washbasins: Lavatories or washbasins provided with both
hot and cold running water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a
vestibule. Lavatories or washbasins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser
and with sanitary towels.
   H.   Dressing Or Locker Facilities: Adequate dressing or locker facilities
shall be provided for the patrons to be served at any given time. In the event
male and female patrons are to be served simultaneously, segregated dressing,
locker and massage room facilities shall be provided. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-
2017)
3-7-9: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Licenses Displayed: The current massage establishment license issued by
the Village as required by this chapter and a current copy of the current
massage therapist license issued by the State of Illinois of each and every
massage therapist employed in the massage establishment shall be displayed in
an open and conspicuous place in the licensed premises.
   B.   Rates Posted: Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted
in the reception area in a location available to all prospective patrons.
   C.   Advertising: No massage establishment issued a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be
placed, published, or distributed any advertising matter that depicts any
portion of the human body that would reasonably suggest to prospective patrons
that any services are available, other than those services permitted by this
chapter, and/or any advertisement, picture, or statement which is known or
through the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false, deceptive
or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize any massage
services.
   D.   Sanitary Conditions: All licensed massage establishments operating
within the Village shall be maintained in sanitary condition, including but not
limited to the following:
      1.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
      2.   All employees, including massage therapists, shall be in good
health, clean and shall be fully covered by wearing clean, nontransparent outer
garments, completely covering the sexual and genital areas.
      3.   All massage establishments shall maintain a sufficient quantity of
clean, sanitary, laundered sheets, towels, and any other items of clothing
provided to patrons, to serve each patron, which sheets and towels, and other
such items shall be laundered after each use thereof and stored in a sanitary
manner.
      4.   Each massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot running
water with proper disinfectant before administering a massage to each patron.
      5.   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that bulk containers are not contaminated between
clients.
      6.   Eating in the massage work areas shall not be permitted.
      7.   Animals, except guide dogs, shall not be permitted in the massage
work areas.
   E.   Manager And Licensed Massage Therapist On Premises: At all times during
the hours of operation of a massage establishment, there shall be present a
manager or other employee of the licensee, and a licensed massage therapist,
each of whom shall not be less than eighteen (18) years of age. A licensed
massage therapist may also serve as a manager.
   F.   Hours Of Operation: No massage establishment shall be open for business
or in operation between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M.
   G.   Name And Place Of Business: No person issued a massage establishment
license pursuant to this chapter shall operate the massage establishment under
a name not specified in the license, nor shall the business be conducted under
any different designation or at any location not specified in the massage
establishment license.
   H.   Liquor Prohibited: No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or
keep, or cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any massage establishment, and no massage
establishment shall be located on any premises for which a license to sell
alcoholic liquor has been issued.
   I.   Indecent, Obscene Conduct: No massage establishment licensee under the
provisions of this chapter shall permit any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who commits any act of public indecency or obscenity as
provided in this Code or as provided in the Illinois Criminal Code.
   J.   Compliance With Other Laws: Each massage establishment shall operate in
compliance with all applicable local, State and Federal laws and regulations,
including, but not limited to, any such laws and regulations relating to
discrimination based on any protected status, as such laws and regulations may
be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-10: CHANGE OF LOCATION OR MANAGER; TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Change Of Location: Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be applicable only to the specific licensee and location designated, and may
not be sold, transferred, or otherwise assigned. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if the licensee remains the same and a request is made to designate and
substitute a different location, the Village Administrator, or a Village
employee designated by him, may approve such new location upon submission of
proof that such location is in compliance with all of the provisions of this
chapter. A non-refundable fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be required to be paid to the Village for
processing a request to change the location of the massage establishment.
   B.   Change Of Licensee; Nontransferability: A transfer in the ownership or
control of a massage establishment shall constitute a change in the licensee,
and the existing license shall be deemed surrendered and extinguished. A new
application and license shall be filed and processed as provided in this
chapter prior to such transfer taking effect. Any transfer in the ownership or
control of a massage establishment in violation of this chapter shall
constitute the operation of an unlicensed massage establishment.
   C.   Change Of Manager: Notice shall be provided prior to any change of the
designated manager conducting business for the massage establishment licensee.
The new manager shall be qualified to operate the massage establishment as
provided in this chapter. The licensee shall, not less than ten (10) business
days before such change is to take effect, give the Village Administrator, or a
Village employee designated by him, notice of such change. The notice shall
include any information concerning the new manager which is required in this
chapter. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-7-11: EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGE THERAPIST REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall employ as a massage therapist any person unless said
person is a licensed massage therapist.
   B.   No person shall perform any massage on another person in a massage
establishment unless the person performing such massage is a licensed massage
therapist.
   C.   No person shall perform any massage on another person in a massage
establishment unless a copy of the current, valid massage therapist license
issued by the State of Illinois to the person performing the massage is on file
with the Village Administrator, or with a Village employee designated by the
Village Administrator. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-12: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   For any individual, in a massage establishment, to place his or her
hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or her body, to fondle in any
manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area or part of any other person.
   B.   For any individual, in a massage establishment, to expose his or her
sexual or genital parts, or any portion thereof, to any other individual.
   C.   It shall also be unlawful for any individual, in a massage
establishment, to expose the sexual or genital parts, or any portions thereof,
of any other individual.
   D.   For any individual, while in the presence of any other individual in a
massage establishment, to fail to conceal with a fully opaque covering, the
sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   E.   For any massage therapist, employee or operator to perform, offer to
perform, or agree to perform any act which would require a touching of a
patron's genital or sexual area.
   F.   For any individual owning, operating, or managing a massage
establishment, to cause, allow or permit in or about such massage establishment
any agent, employee, or any other individual under his control or supervision
to perform any such acts as prohibited by this section.
   G.   For any person who holds a license to operate a massage establishment
within the Village, or any employee of such establishment, to fail to comply
with any of the conditions and regulations set forth in this chapter. (Ord.
2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   The Police Department shall from time to time, and at least twice a
year, make an inspection of each massage establishment for the purposes of
determining that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. Such
inspections shall be made at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.
   B.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed massage establishment are provided for or required by
this chapter, or any other ordinance of the Village, or are reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation of the Village, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the
duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to admit thereto
for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the Village
who is duly authorized to make such inspection at any reasonable time that such
admission or entry is requested. Each such inspection shall be made at a
reasonable time and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to fail to allow such inspection officer or employee of the Village
access to the premises or to hinder such inspection officer(s) or employee in
any manner. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-2017)
3-7-14: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License:
      1.   Procedures: Any license issued for a massage establishment may be
suspended for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days or revoked by the Village
Administrator upon written notice to the license holder, which notice shall
state a basis or charge. The notice shall be served by mailing a copy thereof
by regular U.S. mail, addressed to the licensee at the address of the licensed
premises, and shall be deemed served on the date of mailing (the "service
date") and by delivering a copy of the notice to the manager of the licensed
premises or to any other employee on the licensed premises. The license holder
may request in writing a hearing before the Village Administrator within ten
(10) days of the service date. If a written request for a hearing is not made
within ten (10) days of the service date, the Village Administrator may suspend
any license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days or revoke any license
for any of the reasons hereinafter set forth in the provision of this
subsection. Upon receiving a timely written request therefor, the Village
Administrator shall conduct the hearing and may suspend a license for a period
of time not to exceed thirty (30) days or may revoke a license for any of the
following reasons:
         a.   If any of the provisions of this chapter are violated by the
licensee or any employee of the licensee, or any employee of the licensee is
engaged in any conduct at licensee's place of business which violates any of
the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinances of the Village relating
to the license, the licensed premises, or any State law; and/or
         b.   Where any applicant has committed any fraud, misrepresentation or
made a false statement on an application for a license under this chapter; and/
or
         c.   In any case where the licensee refuses to permit any duly
authorized police officer or inspector of the Village to inspect the premises
or the operations therein; and/or
         d.   For a failure or refusal of the licensee to pay any fee(s), fine,
penalty, and/or charge owed to the Village; and/or
         e.   In the event that the licensee would not now qualify for the
issuance of a license or the renewal thereof; and/or
         f.   If a massage therapist engages in any conduct on the licensed
premises which violates any of the provisions of this chapter or this Code or
any State law; and/or
         g.   Any applicant has made a false statement on an application for a
license under this chapter; and/or
         h.   If such business is being managed, conducted or maintained
without regard for the public health and safety, without regard for the health
and safety of employees and/or patrons, and/or without due regard for proper
sanitation or hygiene.
         i.   A licensee conducted massage activities in the Village during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
         j.   A licensee, or an employee of a licensee, has allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, bestiality,
prostitution, or flagellation to occur in or on the licensed premises.
         k.   There is no licensed massage therapist employed by the licensee
or otherwise engaged to provide massage services on the licensed premises.
      2.   Knowledge Of Violation: The licensee shall be deemed to have actual
or constructive knowledge of any violations of this chapter if they occur on
the licensed premises.
      3.   Appeals: Any decision of the Village Administrator to suspend or
revoke a license may be appealed to the Mayor within ten (10) days of the
issuance by the Village Administrator of any order of suspension or revocation.
The Mayor shall review the record of the hearing held before the Village
Administrator, if any was held, or if no hearing was held, the basis for such
order of suspension, and based upon such review, shall make a decision to
either affirm or reverse the decision of the Village Administrator to suspend
or revoke the license. If the Mayor decides to affirm the decision to suspend
or revoke the license, he may also modify the term of the suspension or
revocation; provided that in no event shall a suspension exceed thirty (30)
days. Any suspension or revocation ordered by the provisions hereof shall be
stayed until all administrative appeals made to officials of the Village as
provided herein (and not including any appeal of a decision of a Village
official made to any court of competent jurisdiction) have been concluded. The
decision of the Mayor shall be final and subject to judicial review only by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      4.   Period Of Revocation: Any licensee whose license has been revoked is
barred from applying for a new license for a minimum period of twenty four (24)
months from the date of revocation.
      5.   Location Restricted After Revocation: If a license has been revoked
for any cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the conduct of the
business of a massage establishment at that same location for a period of
twenty four (24) months.
   B.   Other Penalties Applicable: Any suspension or revocation of the
license, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and imposition of any other
penalties provided for the violation of other applicable provisions of this
chapter or other applicable provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2017-07-01, 7-12-
2017)
3-7-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Public Nuisance: Any location used as a massage establishment in
violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Misdemeanor; Penalties: Every person, except those persons who are
specifically exempted by this chapter, whether acting as an individual owner,
employee of the owner, operator or employee of the operator, or whether acting
as a mere agent or independent contractor for the owner, employee or operator,
or acting as a participant or worker in any way directly or indirectly who
gives massages or operates a massage establishment or provides any of the
services defined in this chapter without first obtaining a license from the
Village and paying a fee to the Village to do so or who violates any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon a finding of guilty,
such person shall be punished by a mandatory fine as specified from time to
time in section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or upon which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2017-07-
01, 7-12-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 8
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: Licensing Regulations And Procedures; Compliance Required
3-8-3: License Classifications
3-8-4: License Numbers And Designation Of Licensees
3-8-5: License Fees
3-8-6: Suspension And/Or Revocation Of License; Hearing
3-8-7: Prohibitions And Restrictions
3-8-8: Employee Training Requirements
3-8-9: Service Of Notices
3-8-10: Penalties
3-8-11:    Additional Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-8-12:    Restrictions On Certain Promotions
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ACT: The Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-1. et seq.\ as
amended from time to time.
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: As defined in the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 1 , as
amended, and as may be hereinafter amended. For the purposes of this Chapter,
“alcoholic liquor” also includes any liquor confectionary. No license fee
provided for in this Chapter shall apply to wine intended for use and used by
any church or religious organization for sacramental or ceremonial purposes,
provided that such wine shall be purchased from a licensed manufacturer or
importing distributor under State law.
BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, salt and hops in water, and includes
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: As defined in the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 2 , as amended, and
as may be hereinafter amended.
CORKAGE LICENSE: A Class H liquor license for a corkage charge establishment,
which license authorizes the establishment to allow patrons of the
establishment to bring onto, be served and consume on the licensed premises
alcoholic beverages not purchased at the licensed premises, and which license
is sometimes known as a “Bring Your Own Bottle (“
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty (20) or
more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations for such guests and having
one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building
or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure
or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
LICENSE or LIQUOR LICENSE: A retail liquor dealer’s license issued by the
Village of Lake Villa pursuant to this Chapter.
LICENSE YEAR: May 1 through April 30 of the next year, or any portion thereof
ending on the following April 30.
LICENSED PREMISES: Every building or other structure within which said
alcoholic beverages are licensed to be served, dispensed, sold, or consumed,
including any licensed outdoor area and/or any sidewalk café or other outdoor
private use area.
LICENSEE: Any person holding a license under the provisions of this chapter.
LIQUOR CONFECTIONARY: Alcohol infused candy.
LIQUOR CONTROL ACT OF 1934: The Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS
5/1-1. et seq.), as amended from time to time, sometimes referred to in this
Chapter as the “Act”.
LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER: The mayor of the village of Lake Villa.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: A bottle, flask, jug, can, barrel, keg, or other receptacle
or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled by the
manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and convey any alcoholic liquor,
except as otherwise permitted by section 6-33 of the Illinois liquor control
act of 1934.
PARTNERSHIP: A general or limited partnership.
PERSON: A firm, association, authority, organization, partnership, company,
corporation, or any other legal entity, or an individual person.
POSSESS OR POSSESSION: To be within the physical control of a person or within
the area of a person's reasonably expected physical control (i.e., in their
constructive possession), but for the purposes of this chapter, "possession"
shall not include the act of lawfully serving of alcoholic liquor to one or
more customers at tables on the licensed premises by an employee of a licensee
of a class A, B, C, E, or G license issued pursuant to this chapter in the
course of their employment if such employee meets the age, employee training,
and supervision requirements of this chapter.
POWDERED ALCOHOL: For purposes of this Chapter, “powdered alcohol” (also
sometimes referred to as “alcohol without liquid”) means any powder or
crystalline substance containing alcohol, as defined in section 1-3.01 of the
Illinois Liquor Control Act, produced for human consumption.
POWDERED ALCOHOL DEVICES: A device designed, manufactured, marketed or used for
the purpose of mixing powdered alcohol with oxygen, air or another gas to
produce a mist or vapor for inhalation or snorting for other than therapeutic
purposes. It shall not include medical devices such as inhalers, nebulizers,
atomizers or other devices being used to dispense a prescribed medication to
the holder of such prescription for therapeutic purposes.
RENEWAL LICENSE: Each subsequent license after the initial license applied for
by and/or issued to an applicant for a specific class of license pursuant to
this Chapter.
RENEWAL LICENSE FEE: Or any other term of similar import, means and refers to
the license fee specified in this Chapter for the class of license for which an
application has been filed and/or for which a license has been issued.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests. A “meal” for this
purpose means any food and/or beverage that is or may be served for or as part
of breakfast, lunch, brunch, or dinner. A coffee shop may be considered a
“restaurant” if it serves meals.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, which includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
THERAPEUTIC PURPOSES: Where prescribed or recommended by a physician or other
healthcare provider
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual less than twenty one (21) years of age.
VILLAGE: The Village of Lake Villa, an Illinois municipal corporation in Lake
County, Illinois.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits.
(Ord. 80-4-1, 4-23-1980; amd. Ord. 92-6-2, 6-24-1992; Ord. 2006-09-02, 9-13-
2006, eff. 1-1-2007; Ord. 2007-03-02, 3-14-2007; Ord. 2018-11-02, 11-14-2018;
Ord. 2020-06-01, 6-1-2020; Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023; Ord. 2025-05-03, 5-19-
2025)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2 2. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-8-2: LICENSING REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Compliance Required; Display of License:
      1.   Compliance Required: Each holder of a license issued by the Village
pursuant to this Chapter is and shall be required to comply with the
regulations set forth in this Chapter, all other applicable provisions of the
Village of Lake Villa Village Code, and all other applicable Village, county,
state, and federal regulations related thereto.
      2.   Display of License: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale
at retail in the Village any alcoholic liquor without having first received
from the Village a retail liquor dealer’s license (“license”), or in violation
of the terms of such license. Every licensee shall cause his such license, or
licenses, to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
   B.   License Application Procedure: An applicant for any license from the
Village shall submit to the Mayor an application for liquor license in a form
approved by the Mayor from time to time and available through the Village Clerk
and completed in full in writing by the Applicant, verified by oath or
affidavit.
   Applications for licenses required by this Chapter shall be submitted to the
Mayor and filed with the Village Clerk, in writing, signed by the applicant, if
an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, limited partnership, or other entity, verified
by oath or affidavit. All applications shall be accompanied by the payment of
required non-refundable application and license fee in the amount as specified
from time to time in Section
3-8-5 of this Chapter, which shall be paid to the Village by the applicant at
the time the application is submitted to the Mayor. Each application for a
renewal license shall be accompanied by the payment of a nonrefimdable
application fee of the amount as specified from time to time in Section
3-8-5 of this Chapter.
   Applications for licenses may be submitted to the Village by e-mail, but
such applications shall nonetheless contain all required information,
including, but not limited to, an e-mail address of the respective applicant
(s), and in any event, each applicant shall be required to supplement their
respective application(s) from time to time whenever their respective e-mail
address or any other contact information changes during the application process
and throughout the license year. Each application shall contain the following
statements and information:
      1.   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, in the case of a partnership, the names, ages and addresses of the
persons entitled to a share in the profits thereof, and in the case of a
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or limited partnership,
the objects for which organized, the names and addresses of the officers and
directors, manager, and registered agent, and of any stockholder or
stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock
of such corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or limited
partnership. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter to the
contrary, if the stock of the applicant corporation is traded on a nationally
recognized securities market, the Village may elect to forgo the background
check(s) and fingerprinting of the officers, directors, stockholders, managers,
members, and/or partners owning more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or limited
partnership, if the manager of the proposed licensee and the premises to be
licensed would otherwise qualify for a license issued pursuant to this Chapter.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
      3.   The character of business of the applicant and, in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed; the articles of incorporation
and any amendments thereto.
      4.   The length of time said applicant has been in the business of that
character or. in the case of a corporation, the date when the charter was
issued.
      5.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time the
application is made.
      6.   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
      7.   A statement whether the applicant has made an application for a
similar or other license on the premises other than    those described in the
application and the disposition of such application.
      8.   A statement that neither the applicant nor any other person
identified in the application has ever been convicted of a felony or is
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
this Code, laws of the State or the other ordinances of the Village.
      9.   Whether a previous license by a State or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked and the reason therefor.
      10.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State or of the United States or any ordinance of the Village in the
conduct of his place of business.
      11.   A statement listing each and every occupation or business with
which the applicant and any other person identified in the application has been
associated in any capacity for fifteen (15) years prior to the filing of said
application.
      12.   A statement listing each and every arrest of the applicant and any
other person identified in the application, other than arrests for traffic
offenses, giving the place and date of arrest, the charge and the final
disposition of the charge.
      13.   Fingerprints of all the fingers of each hand of the applicant and
of any other person identified in the application, taken by personnel of the
Village.
      14.   A statement of whether the applicant has ever filed bankruptcy
proceedings and, if so, the date and place of said filing.
      15.   A statement of whether there has ever been issued to the applicant
a stamp relative to a Federal tax on wages and, if so, the date and places
where said stamp was held by the applicant and a statement of the purposes for
which held.
      16.   Referral Of Application; Investigation; Recommendation: The Mayor
shall cause a copy of each application to be forwarded promptly to each Village
Trustee and to the Chief of Police of the Village. The Chief of Police shall
investigate the applicant to determine the accuracy of the information provided
in the application and shall provide to the Corporate Authorities a report of
such investigation, which shall include a recommendation of whether he finds
the applicant qualified to hold a license pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter.
      17   Waiting Period Before License Issuance: No license shall be issued
until at least thirty (30) days from the date of submitting said application to
the Village; provided, however, the waiting period as to an amended application
filed pursuant to Section
3-8-2(F) of this Chapter for a proposed change of location for the Licensed
Premises may be waived or reduced in length by the Mayor.
   C.   Ineligible Persons: No liquor license shall be issued to:
      1.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
      2.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or
State law, unless the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines that such
person has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person’s application and the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner’s investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient
rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
      3.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
      5.   A person whose license issued under this Chapter and/or under the
State Act has been revoked for cause.
      6.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      7.   A partnership, if any general or limited partner thereof owning more
than five percent (5%) of the aggregate interest in such partnership would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason.
      8.   A corporation or limited liability company (“LLC”), if any officer,
manager, epdirector. or member thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, or
more than five percent (5%) of such LLC, would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship. Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Chapter to the contrary, if the stock of the
applicant corporation is traded on a nationally recognized securities market,
the Village may elect to forego the background check(s) and fingerprinting of
the officers, directors, and stockholders owning more than five percent (5%) of
the stock of such corporation, or more than five percent (5%) of such LLC, if
the manager of the proposed licensee and the premises to be licensed would
otherwise qualify for a license issued pursuant to this Chapter.
      9.   A corporation or an LLC, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or
unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois
Business Corporation Act of 1983 to transact business in Illinois.
      10.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
      11.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or
State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or
has forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
      12.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
      13.   Any law enforcing public official, including the Mayor or any
member of the Village Board of Trustees, and no such official shall be
interested directly in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic
liquor, except a license may be granted to any member of the Village Board of
Trustees in relation to premises that are located within the Village of Lake
Villa subject to the jurisdiction of that official if: a) the sale of alcoholic
liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of food, b) the
issuance of a State of Illinois license is approved by the Illinois Liquor
Control Commission, c) the issuance of the license is in accordance with all
applicable local ordinances in effect where the premises are located, and d)
the official granted a license shall not vote on any alcoholic liquor issues
pending before the Board of Trustees.
      14.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      15.   A person who has been convicted of a any local, state, or federal
gambling offense.
      16.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government.
      17.   A criminal conviction of a corporation is not grounds for the
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or held by the
corporation if the criminal conviction was not the result of a violation of any
Federal or State law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of
alcoholic liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result in any
financial gain to the corporation, and the corporation has terminated its
relationship with each director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder
whose actions directly contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The
Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall determine if all provisions of this
subsection have been met before any action on the corporation’s license
application is initiated.
      18.   A person who at the time of the original application and/or any
application for the renewal of any license issued hereunder (other than a Class
F license) has not either completed the BASSET program as required in Section
3-8-8 of this Chapter or has not employed a manager who has completed the
BASSET training program as required in said Section
3-8-8 of this Chapter.
   D.   Term: Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter, a liquor
license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall expire on April 30 next following
its issuance. Liquor licenses shall state thereon the class of license issued,
the names of the licensees and the addresses and description of the licensed
premises as well as the dates of their issuance and expiration.
   E.   Privilege Limitations, Renewal: A license shall be purely a personal
privilege, and except as otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter, shall be
good for not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner surrendered,
abandoned, or revoked as in this Chapter provided, and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall cease if any material
information contained in the application on file for the current license
relative to the identity or qualification of the applicant is in any respect no
longer accurate, or if the licensee is a person or entity no longer entitled to
hold a license as specified in Section
3-8-2(C) of this Chapter. Each licensee shall have a continuing obligation to
disclose any change or anticipated change in the information contained in the
application for his current license by the filing from time to time of an
amended application or applications as necessary for this purpose. Such license
shall also cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the
laws of testate or intestate devolution; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, which such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under the order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of
such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee.
   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided such
licensee has submitted a renewal application, is then qualified to receive a
such license, the licensee has paid the required license renewal fee, and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purpose; and provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
Mayor and Board of Trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued
within its jurisdiction.
   All liquor licensees seeking a renewal must submit a newly updated
application and/or amended application at least sixty (60) days in advance of
the expiration of the current license on April 30 of each year.
   F.   Regulations Relative to the Retail Sale of Alcoholic Liquor; Location
Restriction Restrictions;
      1.   A retail liquor dealer’s license issued hereunder shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
in the license issued for such premises. Such location may be changed or
modified only upon written authorization to make such change issued by the
Mayor, but in order to obtain such approval, the licensee shall file with the
Mayor an amended application and a statement under oath which shall show that
the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor under the Act and the ordinances of the Village.
      2.   Proximity to Certain Uses: No license shall be issued for the sale
at retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school, other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for the
aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their spouses or children, or any
military or naval station; provided that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is
not the principal business carried on.
      3.   Visibility of Interior; Lighting: (a) No premises upon which the
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises is licensed, other
than as a restaurant hotel, club, or any bowling establishment, shall be
permitted to have at any time any screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing on such premises which shall obstruct, obscure and/or present a clear
view of the entirety of each room or other space of such premises from any
entrance to such room or other space; (b) no booth, screen, partition, or other
obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or
about the interior of such premises which shall at any time obstruct, obscure
and/or prevent a clear view of the entirety of each room or other space from
any entrance to such room or other space and/or through any window or other
opening from any street, road, or sidewalk at all times; and (c) no booth,
screen partition, or other obstruction, nor any arrangements of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of the licensed premises
which shall prevent a full view of the entirety of such premises from the
street, road, or sidewalk; (d) all rooms and other spaces where liquor is sold
for consumption on the premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural light or by artificial white light so that all parts of the
premises shall be clearly visible from any entrance to such room or other
space. In case the view into or onto any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee or willfully
permitted by the licensee to be obscured or in any manner obstructed in any
type of licensed establishment, then such licensee shall be subject to
revocation of his license in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce
the provisions of this Section, the Mayor shall have the right to cause the
inspection of the licensed establishment and/or to require the filing with him
or her of plans, drawings and photographs showing the licensee’s remediation of
any violation of this subsection and the clearance of the view of the entirety
of such premises as required above.
      4.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the issuance of a license to
a church or private school to sell at retail and/or serve alcoholic liquor if
pursuant to a Class F liquor license any such sales are limited to periods when
groups are assembled on the premises solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors.
      5.   Sanitary Conditions:
         a.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption and the regulations of the Lake County Board of Health. Periodic
inspections will be conducted as deemed necessary, and the inspection form to
be used for such purpose shall be on file with the Village Clerk.
         b.   Employees: All of the regulations in the Village ordinances
relating to health and sanitation of employees involved in food preparation,
service, and sales shall apply to all employees in any premises used for the
retail sale and service of alcoholic liquor.
      6   .Fire Safety: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor and/or for the storage of such liquor for sale shall be operated in
compliance with all applicable fire safety code regulations of the Village,
including but not limited to the ICC International Fire Code. 2012. and/or any
subsequent fire safety regulations that may be adopted by the Village from time
to time. Periodic inspections of the licensed premises will be conducted as
deemed necessary by the Village and the inspection form to be used for such
purpose shall be on file with the Village Clerk. If a licensee fails to comply
with any and all fire safety regulations or inspections, then such licensee
shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation of his license in the manner
herein provided.
      7   . Building and Zoning Regulation Compliance: All premises used for
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage of such liquor for sale
shall be operated in compliance with all applicable building and zoning
regulations of the Village as they may be amended or adopted from time to time.
Period inspections of the licensed premises will be conducted as deemed
necessary by the Village and the inspection form to be used for such purpose
shall be on file with the Village Clerk. If a licensee fails to comply with any
and all applicable building and zoning regulations or inspections, then such
licensee shall be subject to suspension and/or revocation of his license in the
manner herein provided.
   G.    Duplicate Licenses, Fees: In the event of the loss or destruction of a
license issued pursuant to this Chapter, the Mayor, upon written application
stating such fact and accompanied by the required fee, shall issue a duplicate
of such license. The non-refundable fee for the issuance of a duplicate license
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   H.   Record Of Licenses: The Mayor shall act as the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him and shall furnish the Village Clerk, Village Treasurer
and Chief of Police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new
license, or the revocation of any old license, the Mayor shall give written
notice of such action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours
of such action. In the capacity of Liquor Control Commissioner, the Mayor shall
have the following powers, functions, and duties with respect to licenses as
provided in the Act (235 ILCS 5/4-4):
      1.   To grant, suspend for not more than thirty (30) days, and/or to
revoke for cause all Village liquor licenses issued to persons for premises
within the Village;
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this Chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by the Liquor
Control Commissioner have been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of said licenses in connection therewith;
      3.   To notify the Secretary of State and the Office of the Illinois
Attorney General where a club incorporated under the laws of the State of
Illinois or a foreign corporation functioning as a club in the State of
Illinois has sold or offered for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without the
required Village liquor license;
      4.   To receive complaint(s) from any citizen within the Village that any
of the provisions of this Chapter, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant
hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such complaint(s) in
the manner hereinafter provided;
      5.   To receive Village liquor license fees and pay the same forthwith to
the Village;
      6.   To levy fines in accordance with Section 7-5 of the Act (235 ILCS 5/
7-5); and
      7.   To have such other powers relating to liquor control as may be
granted to him from time to time by this Village Code, by the Act, and/or by
other Illinois statutes.
   I.   Active Operation Of Business: The holder of any liquor license who does
not actively operate the place of business for which the license was issued for
a period in excess of thirty (30) days shall be considered to have abandoned
said license and it shall be void.
   J.   Right to Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Mayor,
acting as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, shall have the right to appeal
such decision to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission as and to the extent
provided by Illinois Statutes, as amended from time to time, provided, however,
any such appeal to the Illinois Liquor Control Commission shall not be a de
novo review, but rather, shall be based upon the record made before the Local
Liquor Commissioner of the Village pursuant to the Act  (235 ILCS 5/7-9). (Ord.
2007-03-02, 3-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024)
3-8-3: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS:
Retail liquor dealer licenses issued hereunder shall be and are hereby divided
into the following classes:
   A.   Class A license, which shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
described of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises described, except
as otherwise permitted by section 6-33 of the Act.
   B.   Class B license, which shall authorize the sale on the premises of
package beer and wine only. No on site consumption of alcoholic liquor is
permitted, except as otherwise permitted by section 6-33 of Act.
   C.   Class C license, which shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
described of wine and beer for consumption on the premises, except as otherwise
permitted by section 6-33 of the Act.
   D.   Class D license, which shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
described of alcoholic liquor in original packages, but not for consumption on
the premises where sold.
   E.   Class E license, which shall be issued to clubs and associations
organized as not for profit organizations, which has been in existence for at
least two (2) years and which shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
described therein of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises
described, except as otherwise permitted by section 6-33 of the Act.
   F.   Class F license, which shall be issued by the Board of Trustees to a
not-for-profit, church, or governmental entity for special events, which shall
authorize the retail sale on the premises described of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises described; said permit shall be issued for a set
number of days with a cost of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for said permit.
   G.   A Class G license shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor for consumption within an outdoor area of the licensed
premises, provided such sale and serving is accessory to the main purpose of
the serving of meals and/or the seating of customers on such outdoor premises.
      1.   A Class G license shall only be issued to a holder of a then current
and valid Class A, C, E or F license.
      2.   Definition: As used in this subsection, “outdoor premises” shall
mean:
         a.   An outdoor area which is in the vicinity of a building which
contains the indoor portion of the licensed premises of a holder of a current
Class A, C, E or F liquor license; and
         b.   Such outdoor area shall not exceed six thousand (6,000) square
feet in area. Any point within such area on private property shall not be more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any point of the main building which
contains the indoor portion of the licensed premises.
      3.   Hours Of Sale:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the outdoor premises of a holder
of a Class G license except during the respective periods permitted for the
sale of alcoholic liquor for each specified day of the week, which are as
follows:
 
Monday through Thursday 11:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
Friday                  9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Saturday                9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Sunday                  9:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
Or for a Class E or F license, during those hours each day of the week as
specified in its respective license.
 
         b.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Class G license shall not
authorize retail liquor sales except at those respective times authorized by
the respective Class A or by the respective Class C license to which it
relates.
      4.   Effective Term: The effective term of any Class G liquor license
shall be for the respective license year which coincides with the license year
of the Class A, C, E, or F license which is required to be held by a Class G
licensee, the term of which shall, in any event, expire on April 30 next
following its issuance; provided, however, that during the entire term that a
Class G license is in effect, the holder of a Class G license must, at all
times during such term, also be the holder of a current and valid Class A, C,
E, or F license. Accordingly, if, for any reason whatsoever, such Class A, C,
E, or F license is revoked, suspended or terminated during the term of the
Class G license, the Class G license, shall also be automatically and
immediately revoked, suspended or terminated, as the case may be, without any
further action by the Village.
      5.   Additional Restrictions: The following shall be applicable with
respect to the outdoor premises:
         a.   The outdoor premises used for a Class G license, shall be owned
or leased, and operated by the same person or entity to whom the Class A, C, E,
or F license has been issued.
         b.   At all times, the outdoor premises shall be used in conjunction
with the operation of any indoor premises used for the related Class A, C, E,
or F license.
         c.   The outdoor premises shall not block, in any way whatsoever, any
entrance to or exit from the building(s) used for the licensed premises.
         d.   The outdoor premises shall be secured in such a manner so as to
allow safe ingress to and egress from the area of the outdoor premises.
         e.   The maximum number of persons allowed at any time in such outdoor
premises shall not exceed the permitted occupancy of said outdoor premises as
determined by the Village.
         f.   Live entertainment shall not be permitted on the outdoor premises
except when specifically approved in advance by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. Any other type of entertainment and/or music provided shall not
exceed sixty (60) decibels in noise level as measured from the property line
between the property on which the outdoor premises is located and any
properties in the vicinity.
         g.   Any artificial lighting on the outdoor premises shall be
sufficient to provide for the safety and security of all persons using such
area, but shall not be at such a level so as to create a nuisance or to inhibit
the normal use and enjoyment of other properties in the vicinity.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, as measured from any point, the artificial
lighting shall not exceed one-tenth (0.1) foot-candle anywhere within or on any
boundary of the outdoor premises.
         h.   The entire operation and use of the outdoor premises shall be
carried on so as not to pose any risk to the public health, safety, or welfare,
or to create a nuisance and/or to interfere with the use and enjoyment of other
properties in the vicinity.
         i.   The detailed management plans for use of any outdoor premises
shall be submitted to the Village Administrator for his prior written approval,
and such detailed management plans shall be in compliance with the Illinois
Department of Public Health and/or Lake County Board of Health rules,
regulations, toolkits, and/or guidelines relative to protecting the public
health.
   H.   Class H license shall be a corkage license, sometimes known as a “BYOB
License”, issued to a commercial establishment where food, goods, and/or
services are sold and the serving of alcoholic beverages is incidental to the
primary business operation of the licensed premises, which establishment
charges a corkage fee for the opening and/or serving on the licensed premises
of any alcoholic beverage(s) (hereinafter, a “corkage charge establishment”)
and which license authorizes such establishment to allow patrons of the corkage
charge establishment to bring onto, be served, and consume on the licensed
premises alcoholic beverages not purchased at the licensed premises, subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   A Class H license shall be required to be obtained by a corkage
charge establishment to authorize patrons of such establishment to bring onto,
be served, and/or to consume on the licensed premises alcoholic beverages that
were not purchased at the licensed premises.
      2.   Alcoholic beverages may only be brought onto the premises of a
corkage charge establishment holding a current, valid Class H license by
patrons of such establishment who concurrently order and are served food which
is consumed on the licensed premises, and/or who purchase other goods and/or
services from the licensee.
      3.   Every container of alcoholic beverage(s) brought by a patron onto
the premises of a corkage charge establishment holding a Class H license must
be sealed and/or otherwise unopened and shall only be opened by the authorized
personnel of the licensee, and it shall be unlawful for any patron to either
bring onto such licensed premises or leave such licensed premises with an open
or a partially consumed container of such alcoholic beverage, except as
otherwise permitted by section 6-33 of the Act.
      4.   Limited Individual Servings: Only authorized personnel of a holder
of a Class H liquor license shall be permitted to open and/or uncork and serve
to a patron of the corkage charge establishment who is at least twenty-one (21)
years of age such limited amounts as provided for herein of any alcoholic
beverage(s) brought onto the licensed premises by a patron consisting of not
more than two (2) individual services (each not to exceed twelve (12) ounces
per customer per calendar day).
      5.   Any alcoholic beverage may only be opened or uncorked and served on
the premises of a corkage charge establishment holding a Class H license by the
authorized personnel of the licensee during the regular business hours of the
establishment.
      6.   The bringing of, possession of, and/or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage by any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years of age on any
premises holding a Class H license issued by the Village is prohibited.
      7.   A person or entity holding a Class H license may, at his, her or its
discretion, charge “corkage fees” for the opening and/or serving of alcoholic
beverage(s) on the licensed premises.
      8.   All of the other provisions under this chapter shall be applicable
to corkage licenses.
      9.   The holder of a Class H liquor license shall only allow the serving
of alcoholic beverage(s) if and when such alcoholic beverage is brought onto
the licensed premises by a customer of the corkage charge establishment.
   I.   A Class I license shall be granted to a not-for-profit, church, or
governmental entity and shall authorize the sale at retail and serving of
alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the licensed premises (except as
otherwise permitted by section 6-33 of the Act) for an outside special event as
authorized by the Board of Trustees of the Village administratively approved by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      1.   Additional License Required: A Class I license shall only be issued
to a holder of a then current and valid Class A, C, E or F license.
      2.   Fee: The required nonrefundable fee for each Class I license, which
shall be issued administratively by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, for
outside consumption on the licensed premises for a Village- authorized special
event shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day. Each day of a special event
shall require a separate license.
      3.   General Rules And Regulations For All Class I Liquor Licenses:
         a.   All Class I licenses require approval by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner of the Village at least seven (7) calendar days in advance of the
proposed special event. The Village encourages applicants to submit the
application for the Class I liquor license at least fourteen (14) calendar days
in advance of a proposed special event.
         b.   The hours of operation for any Class I liquor license shall not
exceed eight (8) hours in a twenty four-hour period and each Class I license,
when issued, shall specify the hours of operation and if not, the hours of such
Class I license shall be limited to the hours from nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to
nine o’clock (9:00) P.M.
         c.   A license holder shall be limited to a maximum of four (4) Class
I liquor licenses in a calendar year.
         d.   Any special event authorized by the Village by the issuance of a
Class I license shall be held entirely and only on the licensed premises owned
or leased, and operated by the same person to whom the Class A, C, E, or F
license has been issued.
         e.   The artificial lighting of the outdoor premises shall be
sufficient to provide for the safety and security of all persons using such
area, but shall not be at such a level so as to create a nuisance or to inhibit
the normal use and enjoyment of properties in the vicinity. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, as measured from any point, the artificial lighting shall not exceed
one-tenth (0.1) foot-candle both anywhere within and also on the boundaries of
the outdoor premises.
         f.   The entire operation of any special event shall be carried on so
as not to pose any risk to the public health, safety, or welfare or to create a
nuisance or to interfere with the use and enjoyment of other properties in the
vicinity.
         g.   Prior to the event, the applicant shall provide to the Village in
writing all required approval(s) from the Lake County Health Department as may
be applicable for such special event.
         h.   A Class I liquor license for an outdoor special event and the
holder of such a liquor license shall be subject to all of the same terms and
conditions as are applicable to a Class J license.
      4.   Review And Approval: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
review and approve plans submitted by the applicant(s) for the following prior
to and as a condition for the issuance of a Class I liquor license:
         a.   Location and layout of the proposed special event.
         b.   Number of persons permitted to attend the proposed special event
at one time.
         c.   Special event security and security screening, if necessary.
         d.   Location and number of outdoor liquor dispensaries.
         e.   Types of liquor (beer, wine, other alcoholic liquor) to be served
and consumed outside.
         f.   Type of music to be permitted, time and duration, and the maximum
noise level as measured from the property line between the property on which
the outdoor premises is located and any adjoining property.
         g.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may reduce the maximum
hours permitted and/or alter the permitted time for the special event if the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines the hours of the special event
will have a negative impact on the Village.
         h.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may use his or her
judgement to reduce the number of permitted Class I liquor licenses in a
calendar year, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner concluded that the
issuance of additional Class I liquor licenses will have a detrimental impact
on the Village.
      5.   Board Of Trustees Approval: A Class I liquor license which is not in
conformance with regulations in this subsection shall not be approved by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner but may be approved by the Board of Trustees
of the Village but only if the Board of Trustees, in its sole discretion,
determines that the proposed special event will not have a detrimental impact
on the Village.
      6.   Off-Premises Consumption And Sale: The Board of Trustees of the
Village may approve a special event license for the consumption and sale of
liquor off the licensed premises, provided the applicant shall first obtain all
permits, licenses, and/or approvals required by the Illinois Liquor Control
Commission.
   J.   A Class J license:
      1.   Shall authorize the holder of a Class A, C, E, or F liquor license,
which is also the holder of a permit for a sidewalk café or such other outdoor
private use area, to sell and serve alcoholic liquor for consumption out of
doors in a designated and authorized outdoor area of a Village sidewalk, other
Village right-of-way, or other Village property incidental to the sale of food
items in such an outdoor area pursuant to the applicable regulations of this
Village Code and of the Lake County Board of Health.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale at
retail any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the outdoor premises of a
sidewalk café except during the following specified times and days of the week:
 
Monday through Thursday 11:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
Friday                  9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Saturday                9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Sunday                  9:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
 
      3.   The effective term of any Class J liquor license shall be for the
respective license year which coincides with the license year of the Class A,
C, E, or F license which must also be held by the Class J licensee, the term of
which shall, in any event, expire on April 30 next following its issuance;
provided, however, that during the entire term that a Class J license is in
effect, the holder of a Class J license must, at all times during such term,
also be the holder of a current, valid Class A, C, E, or F license. If, for any
reason, such Class A , C, E, or F license is revoked, suspended or terminated
during the term of the Class J license, the Class J license, shall also be
automatically and immediately revoked, suspended or terminated, as the case may
be, without any further action by the Village.
(Ord. 2006-09-02, 9-13-2006, eff. 1-1-2007; amd. Ord. 2012-01-01, 1-25-2012;
Ord. 2018-11-02, 11-14-2018; Ord. 2020-06-01, 6-1-2020; Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-
2023; Ord. 2025-05-03, 5-19-2025)
3-8-4: LICENSE NUMBERS AND DESIGNATION OF LICENSEES:
   A.   The total number of licenses of a specific classification which shall
be issued in any license year shall not exceed the maximum number of liquor
licenses for each license class as follows:
License Class Licenses Permitted
License Class Licenses Permitted
A             13
B             6
C             1
D             2
E             0
F             1 (As approved by the Corporate Authorities from time to time)
G             7
H             1
I             0
J             1
 
   B.   Following is a list of current liquor licenses issued by the Village
and the designated licensee for each such license:
LICENSEE AND D/B/A, IF APPLICABLE ADDRESS OF PREMISES FOR WHICH THE LICENSE IS
                                  AUTHORIZED, DESIGNATED AND ISSUED
                                                    ADDRESS OF PREMISES FOR
LICENSEE AND D/B/A, IF APPLICABLE                   WHICH THE LICENSE IS
                                                    AUTHORIZED, DESIGNATED AND
                                                    ISSUED
CLASS A
(1)   Benders South, Inc., d/b/a Benders South Bar  1701 N. Milwaukee Avenue
      And Grill
(2)   BBQ’d Productions, Inc.                     485 N, Milwaukee Avenue
(3)   El Charro de Mex-Villa, Inc.                  151 E. Grand Avenue, Suite
                                                    1
(4)   Galati’s Grill & Pub                        142 Cedar Avenue
(5)   Harbor Brewing Company, LLC                   136 Cedar Avenue
(6)   Julies Morengo, LLC, d/b/a Dakota’s Players 300 N. Milwaukee Avenue,
      Club                                          Suite 1
(7)   Khayat Bowl Group d/b/a Lucky Strike Lounge   850 Tower Drive, Unit 108
(8)   Khayat Lake House Group, Inc., d/b/a Khayat   850 Tower Drive, Unit 100
      Lake House
(9)   Lake Villa Post 4308                          130 E. Grand Avenue
(10 ) Timothy O’Toole’s Pub Lake Villa          10W, Grand Avenue
(11 ) Vash, Inc., d/b/a Corner Crossing             211 W, Grass Lake Road
(12 ) Camta Group, Inc. d/b/a Serve + Swig          65 W. Grand Avenue
(13 ) Kasa Amigos Lake Villa LLC                    895 E. Grand Avenue
 
                                  ADDRESS OF PREMISES FOR WHICH THE LICENSE IS
LICENSEE AND D/B/A, IF APPLICABLE AUTHORIZED, DESIGNATED
                                  AND ISSUED
                                         ADDRESS OF PREMISES FOR WHICH THE
LICENSEE AND D/B/A, IF APPLICABLE        LICENSE IS AUTHORIZED, DESIGNATED
                                         AND ISSUED
CLASS B
(1) Graham Enterprise, Inc., d/b/a Lake  400 E. Grand Avenue
    Villa Quick Shop (GE.I)
(2) Graham Enterprise, Inc., d/b/a Lake  980 E, Grand Avenue
    Villa BP
(3) Harbor Brewing Company, LLC          136 Cedar Avenue
(4) 9th Hour Brewing Company, LLC        136 Cedar Avenue
(5) RDK Ventures, LLC, d/b/a Circle K    31 S. Milwaukee Avenue
(6) Timothy O’Toole’s Pub, Lake Villa10 W. Grand Avenue
CLASS C
(1) The Deli Lama Store & Café          777 S. Milwaukee Avenue, Suite E
CLASS D
(1) Blessing 1, Inc.                     102 S, Milwaukee Avenue
(2) The Deli Lama Store & Café          777 S, Milwaukee Avenue, Suite E
CLASS E
CLASS F
(1) The American Aid Society of German   259 W. Grand Avenue
    Descendants
CLASS G
(1) Galati’s Grill & Pub               142 Cedar Avenue
(2) Harbor Brewing Company, LLC          136 Cedar Avenue
(3) Khayat Lake House Group, Inc., d/b/  850 Tower Drive, Unit 100
    a Khayat Lake House
(4) Timothy O'Toole's Pub, Lake Villa    10 W. Grand Avenue
(5) Vash, Inc., d/b/a Corner Crossing    211 W. Grass Lake Road
(6) Camta Group, Inc. d/b/a Serve + Swig 65 W. Grand Avenue
(7) Kasa Amigos Lake Villa LLC           895 E. Grand Avenue
CLASS H
(1) Orchid + Olive Events, LLC           112 Cedar Avenue
CLASS I
CLASS J
(1) Harbor Brewing Company, LLC          136 Cedar Avenue
 
(Ord. 2019-05-01, 5-6-2019; amd. Ord. 2020-06-02, 6-1-2020; Ord. 2020-07-02, 7-
20-2020; Ord. 2020-11-02, 11-16-2020; Ord. 2021-03-01, 3-1-2021; Ord. 2021-09-
02, 9-20-2021; Ord. 2021-11-01, 11-1-2021; Ord. 2022-03-01, 3-22-2022; Ord.
2022-06-02, 6-6-2022; Ord. 2023-05-03, 5-1-2023; Ord. 2023-07-02, 7-17-2023;
Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023; Ord. 2024-01-02, 1-8-2024; Ord. 2024-02-01, 2-5-
2024; Ord. 2024-05-03, 5-6-2024; Ord. 2025-04-01, 4-7-2025; Ord. 2025-04-04, 4-
21-2025; Ord. 2025-05-03, 5-19-2025; Ord. 2025-06-01, 6-16-2025)
3-8-5: LICENSE FEES:
Except as otherwise provided herein, at the time application is made to the
Mayor, as Local Liquor Control Commissioner, for a liquor license of any class,
the applicant shall pay the respective nonrefundable license and application
fee for the class of license applied for. All fees for liquor licenses issued
hereunder are nonrefundable and shall be paid to the Village at the time
application is submitted to the Village, and shall be forthwith turned over to
the Village Treasurer. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited by the Village in its General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as
shall have been designated by the Board of Trustees of the Village. Liquor
license fees are nonrefundable, and no liquor license holder shall be entitled
to a refund for any partial license period. The nonrefundable fees for liquor
licenses issued hereunder shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2018-11-02, 11-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-09-
01, 9-5-2023; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-8-6: SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE: HEARING:
The Mayor, acting as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, may suspend for a
period of time as may be designated by said Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
or revoke subject to the limitations provided below, any liquor license issued
by the Village for any violation of any provision of this 26 Chapter, for any
violation of any other provisions of this Village Code, for any violation of
any other Village ordinance, occurring on or with respect to the licensed
premises, or for any violation of any State law pertaining to the sale of
alcoholic liquor, and/or for any other violation of State or Federal law,
occurring on or related to the licensed premises, whether such violations are
committed by a licensee or by any employee or agent of the licensee, or in the
event that the licensee ceases doing business at the licensed premises or place
of business identified in the application. Revocation or suspension of a liquor
license issued by the Village may be in addition to any fine imposed. The
Mayor, acting as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, shall also be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the emergency closing
of the premises, and the suspension of any business license for a period not to
exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the Mayor has so acted, the Mayor
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
should be suspended or revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for suspension or revocation of a
license shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee by certified mail at his last known address or personally served at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted to
be represented by counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross
examine witnesses. The Mayor, acting as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
shall preside and shall render the decision.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Liquor licenses issued by the Village pursuant
to this Chapter may be suspended or revoked by the Mayor, acting as the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner, after notice and hearing as provided in
subsections B and C of this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application of an applicant or licensee for any liquor license.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee, or by any employee(s) or agent(s) of
the licensee, of any Village ordinance provisions or State law relating to the
license, the subject matter of the license, or the licensed premises, and any
activities thereon.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to the
Village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized Village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided in this Village Code.
   E.   Revocation or Suspension of Multiple Licenses Held By the Same Licensee
for the Same Licensed Premises: If, for any reason whatsoever, during the term
of any liquor license issued by the Village, any one (1) or more of a
licensee’s separate liquor licenses is suspended or revoked, such suspension or
revocation of one (1) or more liquor licenses shall cause any other liquor
license issued by the Village and held by that same licensee for the same
licensed premises to be automatically suspended or revoked without further
action by the Village or by the Village’s Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
and any violation of this Chapter by a licensee relating to one (1) or more
liquor licenses issued by the Village shall likewise constitute a violation as
to all of the other liquor licenses issued by the Village and held by that same
licensee for the same licensed premises.
   F.   Agent Violation Constitutes Licensee Violation: For the purposes of
this Chapter, the “agent” of a licensee shall include any person allowed or
permitted to sell and/or serve liquor by the licensee or by any employee of the
licensee, whether or not such person selling or serving liquor is an employee
of the licensee, and whether or not such person receives any compensation for
such tasks of selling and/or serving, or for any portion thereof. For the
purposes of this Chapter, any violation of this Chapter, of this Village Code
or of any other Village ordinance, or of any State or Federal law committed on
or related to the licensed premises by an employee or agent of the licensee
shall constitute a violation by the licensee. (Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023)
3-8-7: PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Closure Of Business: If any licensee holding a liquor license shall
cease doing business, and remain closed and not do business for a period of
thirty (30) consecutive days or more, such license shall thereby automatically
terminate and become void.
   B.   Consumption On Premises: It shall be unlawful for anyone not having
either a Class A, Class C, Class E, Class F, Class G, Class I, or Class J
license to sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises where sold, or to permit the same to be consumed on the premises where
sold.
   C.   Hours Of Operation:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful
to sell or offer for sale at retail, any alcoholic liquor in the Village
between the hours of one o’clock (1:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. on
Monday through Friday, and between the hours of two o’clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturdays, Sundays, or outside of the time limitations
as specified in the license in question.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to keep open for the public or to admit the
public to any premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail,
during the hours within which the sale of such liquor is prohibited. In the
case of restaurants and hotels, such establishments may be kept open during
such hours but no alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the public
during such hours.
      3.   Notwithstanding anything provided in this chapter to the contrary,
the Mayor, acting as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, may in his or her
sole discretion, extend any mandatory closing time otherwise applicable to one
or more particular classes of licenses by this Code for a specific day or days
during the general time period of celebration of a particular holiday or during
the general time period of a special event within the Village when the Mayor
determines that such an extension of mandatory closing time(s) shall be
appropriate, considering both the economic interests of the affected licensee
(s) and the public health and safety. Such extension by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be accomplished by a written order executed by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and such written order may be communicated
by such means as may be reasonably expected to reach affected licensee(s).
      4.   Notwithstanding the foregoing time regulations set forth in this
subsection to the contrary:
         a.   On New Year’s Day the mandatory closing time shall be three
o’clock (3:00) A.M.; and
         b.   The time regulations for any Class E or F license shall be
specifically set by the liquor commissioner as part of the written conditions
of such Class E or F license.
      5.   Notwithstanding anything provided in this Chapter to the contrary,
the Mayor, acting as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, may in his or her
sole discretion, extend any mandatory closing time otherwise applicable to one
or more particular classes of licenses by this Code for a specific day or days
during the general time period of celebration of a particular holiday or during
the general time period of a special event within the Village when the Mayor
determines that such an extension of mandatory closing time(s) shall be
appropriate, considering both the economic interests of the affected licensee
(s) and the public health and safety. Such extension by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall be accomplished by a written order executed by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and such written order may be communicated
by such means as may be reasonably expected to reach affected licensee(s).
   D.   Diseases Of Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises
used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with,
or who is a carrier of, any contagious or infectious disease; and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with, or who is a carrier of, any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor.
   E   Sales To Minors, Incompetents: No licensee nor any associate, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person or
to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment, and no person,
after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or
deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one
(21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service,
provided, however, nothing contained in this section or in this chapter shall
prohibit or shall be construed to prohibit the temporary possession of
alcoholic liquor by an employee of a licensee who is at least eighteen (18)
years of age but less than twenty one (21) years of age, if such employee meets
the employee training and supervision requirements of section
3-8-8 of this chapter, and is lawfully serving alcoholic liquor at tables in
the course of their employment.
   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this chapter, any licensee,
or his agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve alcoholic beverages to
any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of identity and
of the fact that he or she is over the age of twenty one (21) years, as
provided by statute.
   F.   Obstructed View: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon the premises is licensed, other than as a restaurant,
hotel, club, or any bowling establishment, no screen, blind, curtain,
partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors
of such licensed premises nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear
view into the interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or
sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction
nor any arrangements of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the
interior of the licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and the premises
must be so located that there shall be a full view of the entire interior of
such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold
for consumption upon the premises shall be continuously lighted during business
hours by natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of the
interior of the premises shall be clearly visible. In case the view into any
such licensed premises required by the foregoing provisions shall be willfully
obscured by the licensee or by him willfully suffered to be obscured or in any
manner obstructed, then such license shall be subject to revocation in the
manner herein provided. In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the
Mayor of the Village shall have the right to require the filing with him of
plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above
required.
   G.   Club Restrictions: No entity shall receive a license to sell alcoholic
liquor upon the premises as a club unless it has the qualifications
respectively described heretofore in section
3-8-3(E) of this chapter.
   H.   Conduct Restrictions: The following kinds of conduct, on premises in
the Village licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, are prohibited by any person:
      1.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts.
      2.   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing or fondling
of the breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
      4.   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva or anus.
      5.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which is prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
   I.   Consumption, Outside Building: No consumption of alcoholic liquor shall
be permitted outside of a building on any property upon which a premises is
located for which a license has been issued, except pursuant to a current and
valid Class G or Class J liquor license, and only according to the terms of any
applicable conditional use or special use issued to the premises by the
Village.
   J.   Age Restrictions On Employees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of any liquor license issued by
the Village, or agent or employee, to permit any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to draw, pour, serve or mix any alcoholic liquor, provided,
however, nothing contained in this section or in this chapter shall prohibit or
shall be construed to prohibit the temporary possession of alcoholic liquor by
an employee of a licensee who is at least eighteen (18) years of age but less
than twenty one (21) years of age, if such employee meets the employee training
and supervision requirements of section 3-8-8 of this chapter, and is lawfully
serving alcoholic liquor at tables in the course of their employment.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to sell at retail any alcoholic liquor in any place in the Village where
alcoholic liquor is sold, provided, however, nothing contained in this section
or in this chapter shall prohibit or shall be construed to prohibit the
temporary possession of alcoholic liquor by an employee of a licensee who is at
least eighteen (18) years of age but less than twenty one (21) years of age, if
such employee meets the employee training and supervision requirements of
section 3-8-8 of this chapter, and is lawfully serving alcoholic liquor at
tables in the course of their employment.
   K.   Permit Alcoholic Liquor Brought Onto Premises: It shall be unlawful for
any commercial establishment or club which does not then possess a current,
valid Class H liquor license issued by the Village to permit any alcoholic
liquor to be brought onto the premises by customers or patrons and/or to permit
any alcoholic liquor brought onto such premises by customers or patrons to be
consumed by its customers or patrons on such premises.
   L.   Alcoholic Liquor Brought Onto Premises By Customers Or Patrons: It
shall be unlawful for any customer or patron of a commercial establishment or
club which does not then possess a current, valid Class H liquor license issued
by the Village to bring onto the premises of such commercial establishment or
club any alcoholic liquor and/or to consume on such premises any alcoholic
liquor brought onto such premises by customers or patrons of such commercial
establishment or club. (Ord. 2018-11-02, 11-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-
2023)
3-8-8: EMPLOYEE TRAINING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scope Of Provisions:
      1.   Any original and any renewal application for any class of license
(other than a Class F license) shall be accompanied with proof of completion of
a State certified beverage alcohol sellers' and servers' education and training
program (BASSET), for all persons who serve or sell alcoholic beverages
pursuant to such license.
      2.   Any new employees and/or new manager of a licensee of any class of
license issued pursuant to this chapter (other than a Class F license) shall,
within ninety (90) days from the beginning of their employment with that
licensee, complete the BASSET program, and shall, until completion of the
BASSET program, work under the supervision of a person who has completed the
BASSET program. Any employee of a licensee of any class of license issued
pursuant to this chapter (other than a Class F license) who is less than twenty
one (21) years of age shall complete the BASSET program prior to beginning or
continuing their employment and shall always work under the supervision of
another employee who has completed the BASSET program and is at least twenty
one (21) years of age.
   B.   Certificates On File: A legible photocopy of the certificate of
completion of the BASSET program must be filed with the Village Clerk and
maintained in the manager's office on the licensed premises of any class of
license issued pursuant to this chapter (other than a Class F license).
   C.   Employment Without Training Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in
this section, it shall be unlawful to permit any person to serve or sell
alcoholic beverages in a licensed establishment holding a license issued
pursuant to this chapter (other than a Class F license) unless that person has
completed the BASSET program as required by this section.
   D.   Other Training Programs: Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to
the contrary, any reference to the BASSET program or to the BASSET training
program in this Code shall also mean and include any similar training program
which has been approved in writing as an equivalent program in advance by the
Village’s Local Liquor Control Commissioner and by the Chief of Police. (Ord.
2007-03-02, 3-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023)
3-8-9: SERVICE OF NOTICES:
   A.   Any notice required or appropriate to be given or served by the Village
may be served upon the license holder or upon its duly designated registered
agent:
      1.   In person; or
      2.   By leaving said notice in person at the place of business for which
the license was granted with any employee of the license holder or of the
business to which the license was issued; or
      3.   By United States certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      4.   By posting upon the place of business for which the license was
granted.
   B.   If the said notice is served by leaving the same at the place of
business for which the license was issued other than with the licensee or its
registered agent, or by posting at said place of business, a copy thereof shall
be mailed to the license holder or his registered agent by certified mail,
return receipt requested, at the address provided by said license holder. (Ord.
2023-09-01, 9-5-2023)
3-8-10: PENALTIES:
    A.   Fine: Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity violating any
provision of this Chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine for such
violations in a manner and in the amount as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Each day a violation exists or continues
constitutes a separate offense. Any licensee violating any provisions of this
Chapter may also be fined by the Liquor Control Commissioner in accordance with
any authority provided by the applicable Illinois statutes.
   B.   Additional Employee Training: In addition to other penalties imposed by
this Code, any licensee or employee of a licensee found by a court or the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner of the Village to have violated any regulation of
this Chapter shall be required to again complete a BASSET Training Program as
described in Section
3-8-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024)
3-8-11: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Consumption On Premises:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a license providing for
consumption on the premises where sold to offer for sale or sell any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises or to permit the same to be consumed on
the premises where sold, except for product sampling conducted in compliance
with subsection F of this Section.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, it shall be unlawful
to consume or allow the consumption of alcoholic liquor on any premises
licensed under this Chapter, unless the alcoholic liquor was purchased or
served on the premises out of the inventory of the holder of a valid and
current license issued by the Village for the sale of alcoholic liquor for such
premises.
   B.   Bringing Liquor Onto Premises: Except as otherwise provided in this
Chapter and for the delivery of inventory of alcoholic liquor purchased by a
licensee under this Chapter for consumption on its licensed premises, at no
time shall any person bring or be permitted by the licensee to bring any other
alcoholic liquor onto the premises of any premises licensed under this Chapter
for consumption on said premises.
   C.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
Village.
   D.   Sales To Certain Persons: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
liquor license issued pursuant to this Chapter or any employee or agent of such
licensee to sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated
persons or to any persons under the age of twenty one (21) years, provided,
however, nothing contained in this Section or in this Chapter shall prohibit or
shall be construed to prohibit the temporary possession of alcoholic liquor by
an employee of a licensee authorized by its license to sell and serve alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises under this Chapter if such employee is
at least eighteen (18) years of age but less than twenty one (21) years of age,
and if such employee meets the employee training and supervision requirements
of Section
3-8-8 of this Chapter, and is lawfully serving alcoholic liquor at tables in
the course of his or her employment.
   E.   Giving Away Of Alcoholic Liquor:
      1.   No licensee, individual, partnership, or corporation shall give away
any alcoholic liquor for commercial purposes or in connection with the sale of
nonalcoholic products or to promote the sale of nonalcoholic products.
      2.   No licensee, individual, partnership, or corporation shall advertise
or promote in any wav, whether on or off licensed premises, any of the
practices prohibited in subsection E of this Section. This includes, but is not
limited to, advertisements using the words “free” or “complimentary” with
alcoholic liquor.
      3.   Subsection El of this Section shall not apply to product sampling as
provided by subsection F of this Section and as authorized by the Act.
   F.   Product Sampling: Product sampling shall be conducted in a manner which
is in compliance with the terms of the licensee’s license, and such product
sampling shall in any event comply with all applicable regulations of this Code
in offering such product sampling.
      1.   Licensees may conduct product sampling for consumption on a licensed
premises. Up to three (3) samples, consisting of no more than: a) one-fourth
(1/4) ounce of distilled spirits, b) one (1) ounce of wine, or c) two (2)
ounces of beer may be served to a consumer in one (1) day.
      2.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subsection F. an on
premises liquor licensee may offer for sale and serve more than one (1) drink
per person for sampling purposes.
      3.   In any event, all provisions of Section 6-28 of the Act and of this
Section shall apply to an on-premises liquor licensee that conducts product
sampling.
   G.   Violation: It shall be unlawful for any patron to leave any licensed
premises with an open or a partially consumed container of any alcoholic
liquor, or with any cup, glass, or other open container of alcoholic liquor,
except as otherwise permitted by Section 6-33 of the Act.
   H.   Powdered Alcohol Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to possess, control,
sell, offer for sale, purchase, receive, accept, transfer, deliver, give away,
ingest, smoke, inhale, snort, and/or otherwise use or consume any powdered
alcohol within the Village.
   I.   Powdered Alcohol Devices Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to possess, control, sell, offer for sale,
purchase, receive, accept, transfer, deliver, give away, or use a powdered
alcohol device within the Village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to use a medical device such as an inhaler,
nebulizer, atomizer or other device properly prescribed by a physician for the
purpose of mixing powdered alcohol with oxygen, air or other gas to produce a
mist or vapor for inhalation or snorting for other than therapeutic purposes
within the Village.
      3.   A powdered alcohol device is subject to immediate seizure by the
Police Department as evidence of a violation of this Chapter. After seizure,
such a device may be ordered destroyed by the Circuit Court, after notice to
any interested person and an opportunity for a hearing on such proposed
destruction. (Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023)
3-8-12: RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN PROMOTIONS:
   A.   Schedule Of Drink Charges Required: All retail licensees shall maintain
a schedule of the prices charged for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be
served and consumed on the licensed premises or in any room or part thereof.
Whenever a hotel or multiuse establishment which holds a valid retailer’s
license operates on its premises more than one (1) establishment at which
drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at retail, the hotel or multiuse
establishment shall maintain on display in the respective premises at each such
establishment a separate schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at that
establishment.
   B.   Prohibitions: No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee
shall:
      1.   Sell more than one (1) drink of alcoholic liquor for the price of
one (1) drink of alcoholic liquor;
      2.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price
except at private functions not open to the general public, or except as
permitted by the Act;
      3.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      4.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      5.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under subsections Bl through B4 of
this Section.
   C.   Exemptions: Nothing in subsection B of this Section shall be construed
to prohibit a licensee from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      2.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      3.   Sell or offer for sale a party package only if the retail licensee:
a) offers food in the dedicated event space; b) limits the party package to no
more than three (3) hours, c) distributes wristbands, lanyards, shirts, or any
other such wearable items to identify party package attendees so the attendees
may be granted access to the dedicated event space, and d) excludes individuals
not participating in the party package from the dedicated event space;
      4.   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      5.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      6.   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      7.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets of bottled beer), carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are
customarily sold in such manner or selling bottles of spirits; or
      8.   Increasing the prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
      9.   Discounting any drink of alcoholic liquor during a specified time
period only if:
         a.   The price of the drink of alcoholic liquor is not changed during
the time that it is discounted;
         b.   The period of time during which any drink of alcoholic liquor is
discounted does not exceed four (4) hours per day and fifteen (15) hours per
week; however, this period of time is not required to be consecutive and may be
divided by the licensee in any manner;
         c.   The drink of alcoholic liquor is not discounted between the hours
of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and the licensed premises’ closing hour; and
         d.   Notice of the discount of the drink of alcoholic liquor during a
specified time is posted on the licensed premises or on the licensee’s publicly
available website at least seven (7) days prior to the specified time.
      10.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, a retail licensee,
or an employee or agent thereof, may offer an unlimited number of drinks during
any set period of time for a fixed price at a “private function” as that term
is defined in the Act.
      11.   All licensees affected by this Section must also comply with
Sections 6-16,6-21, and 6-27.1 of the Act.
   D.   Violation: A violation of this Section shall be grounds for the
suspension or revocation of the licensee’s license by the Village’s Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 2023-09-01, 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 9
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
ARTICLE A: PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-9A-1: Definitions
3-9A-2: License Required
3-9A-3: License - Application
3-9A-4: Investigation Of Applicant
3-9A-5: Regulations
3-9A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto below:
 
                                   A person who offers for sale at retail food
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:                and/or beverages, utilizing a vehicle
                                   designed to be readily movable.
                                   Any person who, going from place to place,
                                   shall sell, offer for sale, sell and
                                   deliver, barter or exchange any food,
                                   beverage, goods, merchandise, wood, fish,
                                   fruits, vegetables, country produce or any
                                   other permitted article from a vehicle or
                                   otherwise. The term "peddler" does not
PEDDLER:                           include "solicitors", nor does the term
                                   include persons who deliver goods or
                                   services, who are fulfilling an order for
                                   such goods or services which was solicited
                                   or placed by mail or means other than in
                                   person. The term "peddler" shall also
                                   include any person operating as a temporary
                                   vendor within the village.
                                   A natural person, firm, club, corporation,
PERSON:                            limited liability company, association,
                                   partnership, company, religious
                                   organization, or political subdivision.
                                   Shall mean and include every separate living
RESIDENCE:                         unit, occupied for residential purposes by
                                   one or more persons, contained within any
                                   type of building or structure.
                                   A person who is engaged in seeking to obtain
                                   the payment, gifts and/or contributions of
                                   money, clothing or any other valuable thing
                                   or to obtain, communicate and/or exchange
SOLICITOR:                         information for the support or benefit of
                                   any person, provided, however, seeking to
                                   sell subscriptions to books, magazines,
                                   periodicals, newspapers and other
                                   publications shall not be deemed
                                   "soliciting".
                                   A person who operates a retail sales or
TEMPORARY VENDOR (also known as an service establishment that operates at a
"ITINERANT VENDOR or MERCHANT"):   fixed but temporary location in the village
                                   for a finite or limited period of time.
                                   (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021)
 
3-9A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall engage in the business of peddling, as defined in
section
3-9A-1, or act as a temporary vendor within the village without first obtaining
a current peddler's license from the village.
   B.   The issuance of a license authorizing a person to engage in the
business of peddling oil shall not be construed as authorizing such person to
conduct or operate a filling station or engage in the business of fuel oil
dealer without obtaining licenses therefor. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021)
3-9A-3: LICENSE - APPLICATION:
The non-refundable annual fee for a peddler's license shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, which license will commence on January 1 of each
year. Application for said license shall state and the applicant shall provide
the following information and materials at the time the application is
submitted:
   A.   The name of the business, person(s) applying for the license and owners
of the business;
   B.   The address or location at which business is primarily conducted;
   C.   Name and address of all businesses operated by the applicant(s) during
the past three (3) years, other than the present business;
   D.   Location(s) at which applicant intends to do business; nature of the
business; a copy of the certificate of registration under the Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act which has been issued to the applicant;
   E.   A list of the inventory the applicant intends to offer for sale;
   F.   The date, or approximate date, of the applicant's latest previous
application for any license in the village, if any;
   G.   A signed statement by all business owner(s), stating that all employees
and business owner(s), at time of application and throughout the term of the
application period, are neither registered sex offenders nor have ever been
convicted or found guilty or found liable of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or under any law or
regulation of the United States;
   H.   Whether or not a license issued to the applicant under this code has
ever been revoked or suspended;
   I.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted or found guilty or found
liable of a violation of any of the provisions of this village code or the
ordinances of any other Illinois municipality regulating peddlers or
solicitors;
   J.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted or found guilty or found
liable of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or
any other state or under any law or regulation of the United States;
   K.   Statements In Application Made Under Oath: All statements made by the
applicant on the application or in connection therewith shall be under oath;
   L.   Each officer, director, shareholder, partner, member, and/or manager of
the applicant shall provide a copy of their driver's license to the Lake Villa
Police Department for the investigation as required by section
3-9A-4;
   M.   A copy of all required health department permits and/or any other
permit required to operate; and
   N.   Such additional information requested by the officials charged with the
issuance of such licenses which will reasonably show whether the license should
be granted to the applicant and/or which will aid in the enforcement of and in
checking on the compliance with this article. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021; Ord.
2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-9A-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.   The applicant, if it is a mobile food vendor, shall have and provide to
the Village Administrator a copy of its current county food license and an
inspection of the applicant's mobile food facilities approved by the Lake
County Health Department within the last sixty (60) days; and
   B.   The Police Chief of the village, or any other village official
designated by the Village Administrator, shall make or cause to be made such
investigation as he or she deems necessary to determine the character and
reputation of the applicant for a peddler's license. No license shall be issued
to any applicant who is not found to be a person of good character and
reputation, or to any entity which is not owned and operated by a person found
to be of good character and reputation. Village officials conducting such
investigation shall indicate on the application for a license the results of
their investigation and their recommendation of approval or disapproval of said
application to the Village Administrator.
A license shall not be issued to any person who provides incomplete or
inaccurate information in the application, or to a person found guilty of,
convicted of, or found liable for any felony, or any sex offense, nor shall any
business operate or allow a person convicted of any such offense(s) to sell or
peddle goods in the village as an employee or agent.
A criminal history background check shall be conducted based upon the
information required to be supplied by the applicant in section
3-9A-3 for each officer, director, shareholder, partner, member, and/or manager
of the applicant. The village shall endeavor to complete any such
investigations within sixty (60) days of the village's receipt of a completed
application. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021)
3-9A-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fraud: It is unlawful for any person to use any deceptive practice or
otherwise fraudulently misrepresent, whether through himself or herself
individually or through an employee, the nature or condition of any goods,
merchandise or wares sold or peddled in the village, or to sell or peddle any
goods, merchandise, or wares in the village other than those specified in the
respective application submitted to the village for the applicable license.
   B.   Parking: Peddlers and/or mobile vendors shall only park on private
property with the written consent of the owner of the premises and shall not
park anywhere in the village in a manner which blocks any vehicular traffic or
interferes with the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic on public or
private property.
   C.   Use Of Sound Or Noise: No peddler shall utilize bells, sound amplifiers
or other sources of sound or noise between six o’clock (6:00) p.m. and nine
o’clock (9:00) a.m.
   D.   Operating Hours: No peddler shall operate between the hours of ten
o’clock (10:00) p.m. and nine o’clock (9:00) a.m.
   E.   Location Restrictions: No peddler may park in a given place on any
public right-of-way for longer than one (1) hour after the time of his or her
last sale at that place, and after the expiration of said one (1) hour, if he
or she moves on to a different location in the village, said location shall be
at least one (1) block away.
   F.   Display Of License Required: Licenses issued to peddlers must be
displayed at all times during the operation of the licensed activity and shall
be displayed in a manner which provides that said license is visible to the
customers and/or patrons of such peddlers at all times. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-
2021)
ARTICLE B: SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-9B-1: Definitions
3-9B-2: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-9B-3: Solicitors To Obey Notice Or To Leave When Requested
3-9B-4: Uninvited Solicitors Prohibited As Trespasser
3-9B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto below:
 
           A natural person, firm, club, corporation, limited liability
PERSON:    company, association, partnership, company, religious organization,
           or political subdivision.
           Shall mean and include every separate living unit, occupied for
RESIDENCE: residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any
           type of building or structure.
           A person who is engaged in seeking to obtain the payment, gifts and/
           or contributions of money, clothing or any other valuable thing or
           to obtain, communicate and/or exchange information for the support
SOLICITOR: or benefit of any person, provided, however, seeking to sell
           subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers and other
           publications shall not be deemed "soliciting". (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-
           17-2021)
 
3-9B-2: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this article shall give
notice of said determination of the occupant(s) of said residence of their
refusal of invitation to solicitors to enter such residence or upon the
premises thereof by displaying a card of a sufficient size of at least 4" x 4"
with legible printed language upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence and visible from the exterior thereof, containing such language as
"No Solicitors", or "No Solicitors Invited", or other language of similar
import as would indicate that solicitors are not permitted to enter the
residence and are not invited onto the premises and are not permitted to engage
in solicitation on the premises. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021)
3-9B-3: SOLICITORS TO OBEY NOTICE OR TO LEAVE WHEN REQUESTED:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto the premises
in the village upon which a residence is located, to first examine the notice
which may be displayed on said premises by the occupant(s) thereof as provided
in section
3-9B-2 of this article, if any, and be governed by the statement(s) contained
thereon. If the notice states "No Solicitors", or "No Solicitors Invited", or
other language of similar import as would indicate that solicitors are not to
enter upon the premises or engage in solicitation on the premises, the
solicitor shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   B.   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether or not
invited, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant(s) of the premises or when a notice
prohibiting solicitors and/or solicitation is displayed on the premises in
compliance with section
3-9B-2 hereof, or when such notice is brought to their attention by the
occupant(s) of the premises. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021)
3-9B-4: UNINVITED SOLICITORS PROHIBITED AS TRESPASSER:
   A.   The occupant(s) of any residence located within the village may make a
determination of whether solicitors or any person shall be or shall not be
invited into their respective residence and/or onto their respective premises.
Any solicitor who is not, pursuant to the provisions contained in this article,
invited onto the premises of the occupant(s) thereof or who has made an
unauthorized entrance to such premises and does not immediately and peacefully
leave such premises upon being so requested to do so by the occupant(s) of such
premises, shall be deemed a trespasser and in violation of this article.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance and a trespass for
any person to go upon any residential premises within the village and ring a
doorbell located on said premises, or to create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant(s) of such a residence for
the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant(s) thereof to engage in
solicitation as defined in this article, in defiance of any notice displayed at
the subject residence in accordance with the provision of section
3-9B-2 hereof. (Ord. 2021-05-01, 5-17-2021)
CHAPTER 10
CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER AND PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEES AND CONSUMER
PROTECTION
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-10-3: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
3-10-4: Applicable Principles
3-10-5: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-10-6: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Providers
3-10-7: Late Fees/Payments
3-10-8: Cable And Video Customer Protection Law
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
      2.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
      3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
      4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
      5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
      6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
      7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2007-11-01,
11-14-2007)
3-10-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A non-refundable fee is hereby imposed on any holder
providing cable service or video service in the village.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the non-refundable fee imposed hereby
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1.
   C.   Notice To The Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter,
unless otherwise provided by an agreement between the holder and the Village.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-
03, 12-2-2024)
3-10-3: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   PEG Fee Imposed: A non-refundable PEG access support fee is hereby
imposed on any holder providing cable service or video service in the village
in addition to the non-refundable fee imposed pursuant to section
3-10-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the non-refundable PEG access support fee
imposed hereby shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   C.   Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the village
or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The holder's
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in subsection
3-10-2D of this chapter.
   D.   Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes under subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-10-4: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-10-5: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2007-11-
01, 11-14-2007)
3-10-6: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-10-7: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village code adopted by this village pursuant to the local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq., and title 3, chapter 17 of this code. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd.
Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-10-8: CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Authority: This section is adopted pursuant to the cable and video
customer protection law 1  authorizing a village to enforce all of the customer
service and privacy protection standards of said section.
   B.   Purpose: The village desires to enforce the customer service and
privacy protection standards with respect to complaints received from residents
as provided by the cable and video customer protection law.
   C.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
   D.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   E.   Enforcement: The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent
to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards of the
cable and video protection law with respect to complaints received from
residents within the village.
   F.   Penalties: The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
70-501(r)(1), does hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material
breach of the cable and video protection law by cable or video providers in
addition to the penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties for a
material breach shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not
exceed the penalty as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      1.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
      2.   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
      3.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection F2 of this
section.
   G.   Customer Credits: The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer
credits for violations. Those credits shall be as provided for in the
provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s) and applied on the
statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle following the
violation or following the discovery of the violation. The cable or video
provider is responsible for providing the credits and the customer is under no
obligation to request the credit.
   H.   Violation; Penalty: Except as specifically provided in this chapter,
any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a mandatory fine as
specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2007-
11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/70-501.
CHAPTER 11
TAXICABS REGULATED
SECTION:
3-11-1: Taxicabs Regulated
3-11-2: License
3-11-3: Discrimination Prohibited
3-11-4: Fees
3-11-5: License Displayed
3-11-5.1: License Renewal
3-11-5.2: License Revocation
3-11-1: TAXICABS REGULATED:
No taxicab shall pick up a passenger within the village unless the driver
thereof possesses a valid taxicab license issued by the village. No license
shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of a felony. (Ord. 97-12-
5, 12-17-1997)
3-11-2: LICENSE:
Each taxicab driver shall obtain a license by completing, signing, and
submitting to the village police department, on forms provided by the village,
a taxicab license application. The information furnished shall include:
   A.   Name and address. (Ord. 97-12-5, 12-17-1997)
   B.   Certificate of liability insurance in the amount not less than three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per occurrence and in the aggregate.
Each taxicab must display proof of such insurance. (Ord. 2001-3-5, 3-28-2001)
   C.   Disclosure of any criminal convictions.
   D.   Current telephone number.
   E.   Current photograph of applicant in size and format approved by the
police department.
   F.   Applicants will be required to submit to a fingerprinting to facilitate
the police department's background check. (Ord. 97-12-5, 12-17-1997)
3-11-3: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
No taxicab licensee shall refuse to board a passenger on account of his race,
religion, sex, or ethnic origin. (Ord. 97-12-5, 12-17-1997)
3-11-4: FEES:
   A.   The non-refundable annual license fees which shall be paid by each
applicant for a taxicab license shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   The non-refundable annual fee for each subsequent annual renewal
license shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2001-3-5, 3-28-2001; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-11-5: LICENSE DISPLAYED:
At all times that the taxicab is operated within the village or has a passenger
who boarded the vehicle within the village, the licensee shall keep his license
prominently displayed on his visor, in such a fashion so that it is readily
visible from the rear seat of the passenger compartment. (Ord. 97-12-5, 12-17-
1997)
3-11-5.1: LICENSE RENEWAL:
All license renewals shall be subject to the review and approval of the village
board. A renewal may be denied if the village board determines that the
licensee has failed to comply with applicable village code provisions. (Ord.
2001-4-1, 4-11-2001)
3-11-5.2: LICENSE REVOCATION:
All licenses shall be subject to the periodic review of the village board. A
license may be revoked if the village board determines that the licensee has
failed to comply with applicable village code provisions. (Ord. 2001-4-1, 4-11-
2001)
CHAPTER 12
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Limitations
3-12-3: Exceptions
3-12-4: Penalty
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARAGE SALES: Shall mean and include garage sales, estate sales, lawn sales,
rummage sales, flea market sales, or any similar type sale whereby tangible
personal property, excluding food items, is offered for sale to the general
public from a residence.
PERSON: Shall mean and include any individual, partnership, association,
corporation, or any other legal entity. (Ord. 98-8-3, 8-12-1998)
3-12-2: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   No more than two (2) garage sales shall be conducted from the same
residence within any twelve (12) month period. No more than one garage sale
shall be conducted in any seven (7) day period.
   B.   No person shall conduct a garage sale on premises not owned or leased
by such person.
   C.   No garage sale shall be conducted for a period of time exceeding three
(3) consecutive days.
   D.   All garage sales shall be confined to the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and sunset or eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., whichever time is earlier.
   E.   All garage sales shall be conducted in accordance with all federal,
state, and village regulations and in such a manner to protect the public
health and safety, including, but not limited to, vehicular, traffic, and
pedestrian safety.
   F.   Members of the public who enter any premises where a garage sale is
being held shall not park motorized vehicles on any roadway under the
jurisdiction of the state or county and shall park any such motorized vehicles
on village streets in accordance with all applicable village regulations. It is
the responsibility of the person conducting the garage sale to inform all
members of the public which attend the sale of these parking restrictions.
Persons conducting a garage sale shall immediately comply with any directives
from the Lake Villa police department regarding parking of vehicles or traffic
safety.
   G.   Signs announcing garage sales may be posted on any village property
provided that they do not obstruct or hinder traffic or otherwise constitute a
hazard on private property. All such signs should display the name and address
of the party holding the garage sale, and shall not exceed six (6) square feet.
These signs may be erected for no longer than three (3) consecutive days and
must be immediately removed at the end of the sale event. No such signs shall
be attached to buildings, fences, mailboxes, utility poles, public signs,
public appurtenances, or any other accessory structure. (Ord. 98-8-3, 8-12-
1998)
3-12-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   A.   Persons selling goods or tangible personal property pursuant to an
order or process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Public officials acting pursuant to their official duties.
   C.   Any person selling or advertising for sale no more than five (5) items
which are specifically named or identified in the advertisement such as the
sale of a used car.
   D.   Any sale upon church premises provided that such sale events do not
exceed six (6) in any twelve (12) month period. (Ord. 98-8-3, 8-12-1998)
3-12-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for
each day a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 98-8-3, 8-12-1998; amd. Ord.
2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 13
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Tax Imposed
3-13-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-13-4: Returns To Department
3-13-5: Resellers
3-13-6: Severability
3-13-7: Bills; Effective Date
3-13-8: Repealer
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each
channel point within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the
interstate interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross
charge" shall not include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any legal entity including a natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation,
limited liability company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other
representative appointed by order of any court, the federal and state
governments, including state universities created by statute, or any city,
town, county, or other political subdivision of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this chapter. For purposes of this chapter,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 2002-10-2, 10-23-2002, eff.
7-1-2003)
3-13-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act
or privilege that is subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 2002-10-2, 10-23-2002, eff. 7-1-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-13-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2002-10-2, 10-23-2002, eff. 7-1-2003)
3-13-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
On or before August 31, 2003, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this chapter on telecommunication retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and
regulations created by the department to implement the act. (Ord. 2002-10-2,
10-23-2002, eff. 7-1-2003)
3-13-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2002-10-2, 10-23-2002,
eff. 7-1-2003)
3-13-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 2002-
10-2, 10-23-2002, eff. 7-1-2003)
3-13-7: BILLS; EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax provided for in this chapter shall take effect for all bills issued on
or after July 1, 2003. Any amounts due or payable to the municipality for any
tax periods ending prior to July 1, 2003, shall nevertheless remain payable as
if this chapter had not been adopted. (Ord. 2002-10-2, 10-23-2002, eff. 7-1-
2003)
3-13-8: REPEALER:
If public act 92-0526, entitled the simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act, is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, then ordinance 97-10-5,
passed October 29, 1997, as it pertains to this tax, shall not be repealed and
shall be deemed in full force and effect as of the date public act 92-0526 or
this chapter is repealed or becomes ineffective. (Ord. 2002-10-2, 10-23-2002,
eff. 7-1-2003)
CHAPTER 14
ELEVATORS 1
SECTION:
3-14-1: Permit Required
3-14-2: Semiannual Inspections
3-14-3: Annual Permit Fee
3-14-4: Reinspection Fees
3-14-5: New Elevator Plan Review Fees
3-14-6: Owner Responsible
3-14-7: Violation
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-4-7 of this code.
3-14-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
An annual elevator permit is required for all elevators which are situated in
any building within the village of Lake Villa, which fee shall be paid on or
before January 30 for each calendar year. For the year 2004, all such fees
shall be paid on or before March 30, 2004. (Ord. 2004-02-02, 2-25-2004)
3-14-2: SEMIANNUAL INSPECTIONS:
All elevators shall be inspected semiannually by the village or an entity
acting on its behalf. (Ord. 2004-02-02, 2-25-2004)
3-14-3: ANNUAL PERMIT FEE:
The non-refundable annual elevator permit fee shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The permit fee shall include the cost of
semiannual inspections by the village staff or an entity acting on its behalf.
(Ord. 2004-02-02, 2-25-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-14-4: REINSPECTION FEES:
If the semiannual inspections require any reinspections to assure compliance
with all applicable code provisions, there shall be a mandatory reinspection
fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each reinspection until the elevator complies
with the applicable code provisions and a permit is issued therefor. (Ord.
2004-02-02, 2-25-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-14-5: NEW ELEVATOR PLAN REVIEW FEES:
For all new elevators, there shall also be paid a mandatory plan review fee as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2004-02-02, 2-25-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-12-2024)
3-14-6: OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
The owner of the building in which the elevator is situated shall be
responsible for the prompt payment of all fees prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-02-02, 2-25-2004)
3-14-7: VIOLATION:
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, "person" shall mean and include any
individual, association, partnership, corporation, or any other legal entity.
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to
operate an elevator or permit an elevator to be operated or otherwise available
to the general public without a valid elevator permit having been issued
therefor.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to fail to pay
the annual elevator permit fee on or before the due date or to fail to pay any
other fees prescribed by this chapter within thirty (30) days of village's
written statement therefor. (Ord. 2004-02-02, 2-25-2004)
CHAPTER 15
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definitions
3-15-2: Exclusive Franchise Required; Compliance
3-15-3: Collection Of Recyclable Materials
3-15-4: Pick Up Of Residential Refuse, Compostables, And Recyclables; Time
Limitation
3-15-5: Municipal Multi-Family/Commercial Solid Waste Hauler Licenses Required
3-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: In reference to a municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste
hauler license, means any "Person", as defined herein, who applies to the
Village for the issuance of or for the renewal of a municipal multi-family/
commercial solid waste hauler license.
HAULER: Any "person", as defined herein, engaged in the business of collecting
or hauling multi-family/commercial solid waste and/or recyclable material, or
collecting residential solid waste, recycling, and yard waste pursuant to the
Village's exclusive franchise agreement as hereinafter described, on a
continuous and regular basis, and makes multiple scheduled collections per
month within the Village.
LICENSEE: A " Person", as defined herein, to whom the Village has issued a
valid municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license.
MULTI-FAMILY/COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE: Commercial solid waste, garbage, refuse or
other material generated from any commercial or institutional premises within
the Village and/or from any residential premises within the Village which are
multi-family homes.
MULTI-FAMILY HOME: Any residential building containing more than four (4)
separate residences or dwelling units, including without limitation
condominiums and co-ops in buildings containing more than four (4) individual
residential units.
MUNICIPAL MULTI-FAMILY/COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE HAULER LICENSE: A license issued
by the Village to a person engaged in the business of multi-family/commercial
solid waste collection, which license will authorize the respective hauler to
collect multi-family/commercial solid waste and recyclable materials within the
corporate limits of the Village.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, limited liability company, association,
partnership, political subdivision, government agency, municipality, industry,
public or private corporation or any other legal entity whatsoever.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Those materials identified from time to time in the
Village's exclusive franchise agreement.
RECYCLING: Any process by which materials that would otherwise be disposed of
or discarded are collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw materials or products.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Residential solid waste, garbage, refuse or other
material generated from residential premises, excluding multi-family/commercial
solid waste.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A dwelling unit occupied by a single household located within
any building containing at least one (1), but not more than four (4), dwelling
units.
VILLAGE: The Village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois, a body politic and
corporate. (Ord. 2007-05-02, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-03-04, 3-28-2018; Ord.
2024-02-04, 2-20-2024)
3-15-2: EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Exclusive Franchise Required: No person shall engage in the enterprise
of collecting, transporting, processing, storing or disposing of residential
solid waste, recyclable materials and/or compostables of any kind from any
residential unit within the corporate limits of the Village, as said limits
exist from time to time, without first having secured an exclusive franchise
from the Village for such purposes (the "Exclusive Franchise Agreement").
   B.   Village Billing For Monthly Services: Pursuant to the exclusive
franchise agreement between the Village and its current refuse provider, the
Village, or at the Village's election, the current refuse provider, shall bill
the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of each residential unit a service charge for
weekly curbside solid waste and recycling collection and disposal service as
set forth in the most recent franchise agreement with the refuse provider.
   C.   Order Of Application Of Payments To The Village: Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Village Code to the contrary, and notwithstanding
any indication of any intent and/or any request of the payor to the contrary,
when any payment is received for all or part of any outstanding Village bill,
invoice or account receivable, which bill, invoice or account receivable
includes an annual billing for vehicle taxes, for those services provided by
the Village for solid waste and recycling collection and disposal for
residential units provided pursuant to the Village's Exclusive Franchise
Agreement, and/or for combined water and sewer system charges, and/or for water
and/or sewer service rates, and/or user fees, any such payment received by the
Village shall be applied first to all vehicle taxes due the Village, then next
to all service fees due the Village for solid waste and recycling collection
and disposal services due the Village, and only then to any outstanding
combined water and sewer system charges and/or for water and sewer service
rates and/or user fees.
   D.   Rates And Charges Are Subject To Change: Service fee(s) and other
charges may be amended from time to time pursuant to the terms and conditions
of the applicable agreement between the Village and its current refuse
provider.
   E.   Compliance With Exclusive Franchise Agreement Required: All owner(s)
and occupant(s) of residential units within the Village shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the Village's exclusive franchise agreement, and any
extensions and/or amendments thereto. To the extent that said exclusive
franchise agreement is inconsistent with this Chapter, the exclusive franchise
agreement shall govern. Said exclusive franchise agreement, as well as any
extensions and amendments thereto, are on file with the Village Clerk and are
hereby made part of this Chapter by this reference.
   F.   Village Solid Waste And Recycling Services Shall Be Kept In Effect: The
owner(s) and occupant(s), if any, of each residential unit within the Village
shall be required to keep in force and effect and utilize the Village's solid
waste and recycling collection and disposal services provided by the Village's
Exclusive Franchisee during the term of the exclusive franchise agreement, and
during any extension(s) thereof.
   G.   Burning And/Or Accumulation Of Garbage Prohibited: No burning and/or
accumulation of garbage on public or private property within the Village shall
be permitted. (Ord. 2018-03-04, 3-28-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-09-01, 9-21-2020;
Res. 2023-01-02, 1-17-2023; Ord. 2024-02-04, 2-20-2024; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024)
3-15-3: COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Recyclable Material Collection Offered: Each Hauler operating within
the Village shall be required to offer, either as part of basic service or
alternately as an additional service, the collection of Recyclable Materials
from any home within the Village.
   B.   Collection Of Recyclable Materials: No Recyclable Materials collected
by a Hauler shall be deposited in a landfill or incinerator unless all
reasonable efforts have been made by said Hauler to deliver the Recyclable
Materials to a processor or end user.
   C.   Ownership Of Recyclable Materials: Ownership of Recyclable Materials
set out for collection shall remain the property of the respective home that
set out the materials for collection until removed by the Hauler. Ownership of
such Recyclable Materials shall thereafter vest in the Hauler upon removal.
(Ord. 2007-05-02, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-02-04, 2-20-2024)
3-15-4: PICK UP OF RESIDENTIAL REFUSE, COMPOSTABLES, AND RECYCLABLES; TIME
LIMITATION:
No residential solid waste, multi-family/commercial solid waste, recyclable
material, and/or compostables, or any refuse, whether or not in the proper
container, shall be placed on any portion of any public or private road,
street, or alley, or within twenty-five feet (25') thereof, earlier than
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled time and date for the pick up of
such residential solid waste, multi-family/commercial solid waste, recyclable
material, and/or compostables for said premises; and any residential solid
waste, multi-family/commercial solid waste, recyclable material, and/or
compostables placed earlier than as aforesaid are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. Such a nuisance may be abated at the direction of the Mayor or
Director of Public Works, and the removal of such nuisance shall be at the
expense of the owners and residents of the premises in question, who shall be
jointly and severally liable for such cost. (Ord. 2007-05-02, 5-9-2007; amd.
Ord. 2024-02-04, 2-20-2024)
3-15-5: MUNICIPAL MULTI-FAMILY/COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE HAULER LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Licenses Required: No hauler shall engage in the collection of multi-
family/commercial solid waste within the corporate limits of the Village
without first having applied for and obtained from the Village a municipal
multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license to do so.
   B.   License Procedure:
      1.   Application: Application for each municipal multi-family/commercial
solid waste hauler license shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk on the
form provided by the Village, shall be verified by the applicant, shall be
accompanied by the required fee(s), proof of insurance as stated below, and
shall contain the following information.
         a.   The name and address of the applicant; if the applicant is a
partnership, the application shall show for each partner his name and address
and interest and also all information contained by subsections B1i(1) and B1i
(3) of this Section. If the applicant is a corporation or a Limited Liability
Company, the application shall show the name and address of the registered
agent, and with respect to each director, and each shareholder owning five
percent (5%) or more of the corporation/LLC's shares (i) his name and address,
(ii) the information required by subsection B1i(3) of this Section, and in
addition, with respect to each director and shareholder owning more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the shares, the information required by subsection B1i(2)
of this Section.
         b.   The experience of the applicant in the collection, transport and
disposal of multi-family/commercial solid waste and recyclable materials and
applicant's (or principal owner) business experience (or a related field)
during the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the
application.
         c.   The criminal record, if any, of the applicant and/or its
officers, directors, employees, and agents.
         d.   The rates or a schedule of rates proposed to be charged.
         e.   The number and kind of vehicles owned, leased, and/or otherwise
under the control of the Applicant, and the number and kind of vehicles
proposed to be licensed hereunder for use in the collection of multi-family/
commercial solid waste and recyclable materials from within the Village's
corporate limits. An application may be amended from time to time during the
license period to provide for increases or reductions in the number of
vehicles.
         f.   The location of the applicant' s office and garage.
         g.   The color scheme, insignia and trade name to be used to designate
the vehicles of the applicant.
         h.   Certification that a working phone number to reach the hauler is
visibly posted on each designated vehicle.
         i.   A policy or certificate of insurance, issued by a company
licensed to do business in the State of Illinois and in a form acceptable to
the Village Attorney, showing proof of insurance as required below. The
applicant shall maintain the full insurance coverage required herein at all
times and a duplicate certificate of insurance shall be deposited with the
Village Clerk and shall provide that such insurance may not be canceled except
upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to the Village Clerk. The insurance
coverage specified herein constitutes the minimum requirements and said
requirements shall in no way lessen or limit the liability of the applicant
under the terms of this Chapter. The applicant shall procure and maintain at
its own cost and expense any additional kinds and amounts of insurance which,
in the applicant's own judgment, may be necessary for its proper protection.
            (1)   Worker' s Compensation Insurance: The applicant shall carry
this with a company authorized under the laws of the State of Illinois with a
policy to protect itself against liability under the Worker's Compensation Act
and the Workers' Occupational Diseases Act of the State of Illinois. The
Village and its officers, employees, and agents shall be named as an additional
insured on such coverage and on such certificate of insurance.
            (2)   Vehicle Liability Insurance: The applicant shall carry under
its own name a comprehensive policy to insure the entire vehicle fleet
liability for its operations with limits of not less than three million dollars
($3,000,000.00) each person, and five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) each
accident bodily injury liability, and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each
accident for property damage liability. The Village and its officers,
employees, and agents shall be named as an additional insured on such coverage
and on such certificate of insurance.
            (3)   General Liability: The licensee shall carry in its own name a
comprehensive liability policy for its operations other than vehicular
operations with limits of at least three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) each
person, and five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) each accident for bodily
injury liability, and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each accident for
property damage liability. The Village and its officers, employees, and agents
shall be named as an additional insured on such coverage and on such
certificate of insurance.
         j.   Such other information as the Village may require from time to
time.
      2.   License Issuance: The Village shall approve the application and
issue the municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license upon the
payment of the fee(s) required herein if the corporate authorities of the
Village find:
         a.   That the applicant is not in any way in default to the Village;
         b.   That the applicant has and continues to conduct its business in
compliance with all applicable provisions of the Village of Lake Villa Village
Code, and all applicable county, state or federal rules or regulations;
         c.   That the equipment used in the applicant's business meets the
requirements of the applicable provisions of the Village of Lake Villa Village
Code and all applicable county, state or federal rules or regulations;
         d.   The issuance to the respective applicant of the municipal multi-
family/commercial solid waste hauler license is in the best interest of the
Village and that the quality of service to be rendered by the respective
applicant will serve the public health, safety and welfare of the Village; and
         e.   That all fee(s), information, insurance, certificates and
agreements required by this Section have been provided to and approved by the
Village.
      3.   Term Of License: A municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste
hauler license shall expire after a period of one year.
      4.   License Renewal: The Village shall provide a municipal multi-family/
commercial solid waste hauler license renewal form to each Hauler within sixty
(60) days prior to the expiration of the hauler's current license. License
renewal forms shall be completed and returned to the Village at least thirty
(30) days prior to the expiration of the hauler's current license.
      5.   Accuracy Of Information: All information required to be submitted
for this municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license shall be
complete, accurate and submitted in a timely manner.
      6,   Transfer Of Ownership: Licenses are not transferable. Any attempted
transfer of a municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license
shall render said municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license
immediately void. An ownership change in a corporation that involves the sale
or transfer of thirty five percent (35%) or more of the stock shall void the
existing municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license.
   C.   License Issuance Or Denial:
      1.   License Action: The Village shall have forty-five (45) days from the
date of receipt of a complete application or renewal application to issue or
deny any municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler license or
renewal thereof.
      2.   Notification: The Village shall notify the applicant in writing of
the issuance or denial of said application. Denial of said municipal multi-
family/commercial solid waste hauler license shall be by certified mail, return
receipt requested. Notification shall be sent to the business name and business
address shown on the license application completed by the person.
      3.   License Denial: A license denial shall provide written notice
stating the basis for the denial and shall provide notice to the applicant that
if an appeal is desired, a written request for a hearing before the corporate
authorities of the Village must be filed with the Village Clerk within fifteen
(15) calendar days following the date such notice was mailed to the applicant.
Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the Village shall set a time and place
for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures
adopted by the Village.
   D.   License And Vehicle Registration Fee:
      1.   Municipal Multi-Family/Commercial Solid Waste Hauler License: The
annual non-refundable fee to be paid for such municipal multi-family/commercial
solid waste hauler license, or for any renewal thereof, shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code and payment of the required fee by certified or
cashier's check payable to the Village may be required by the Village
Treasurer. Payment of all fees must accompany all applications for issuance of
or for renewal of any municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste hauler
license.
      2.   Vehicle Registration: The Village reserves the right to issue a
decal and require the placement of said decal conspicuously on the outside of
each vehicle so utilized by the licensed hauler. Such decals, if required by
the Mayor, or his designee, shall be issued annually. The number of said
vehicles utilized by the hauler shall be reported in the person's application
for issuance of or for renewal of any municipal multi-family/commercial solid
waste hauler license. If the Village exercises the right to require decals on
each vehicle, no vehicle may be utilized by the hauler within the Village
without displaying said decal.
   E.   Reporting: On or before January 31 of each year, the hauler shall
submit a written report to the Village and to the Solid Waste Agency of Lake
County on its municipal multi-family/commercial solid waste and multi-family
recycling operations during the previous calendar year. Said report shall
contain:
      1.   The total tonnage of multi-family/commercial solid waste collected
from multi-family homes and commercial and institutional premises within the
corporate limits of the Village;
      2.   The total tonnage of recyclable materials collected from multi-
family homes and commercial and institutional premises within the corporate
limits of the Village.
   F.   Compliance With Other Laws: The obtaining of a license herein shall not
be deemed to exclude the necessity of obtaining other licenses or permits as
required by all applicable Village, county, state or federal laws or
regulations. Each licensed hauler shall be required to conduct its operations
at all times in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Village of
Lake Villa Village Code and all applicable Village, county, state or federal
rules or regulations. (Ord. 2007-05-02, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-02-04, 2-20-
2024; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 16
RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definitions
3-16-2: Qualifications
3-16-3: Application
3-16-4: Regulations Governing Licensee
3-16-5: License Fees
3-16-6: Administration
3-16-7: Enforcement; Penalties
3-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title and future amendments thereto, certain terms,
phrases, and words are hereby defined. The following words, terms and phrases
used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified below:
FIRE PROTECTION AGENCY:
   (1)   An agency of the State of Illinois, unit of local government, or
intergovernmental mutual aid entity that is vested by law or intergovernmental
agreement with the duty and authority to provide public fire suppression,
rescue, or emergency medical services; or
   (2)   An organization that provides support or assistance to an agency of
the State of Illinois, unit of local government, or intergovernmental mutual
aid entity that is vested by law or intergovernmental agreement with the duty
and authority to provide public fire suppression, rescue, or emergency medical
services.
KEY LOCATION:
   (1)   For a poker run, the location where the poker run concludes and the
prizes are awarded;
   (2)   For a raffle, the location where the winning chances in the raffle are
determined.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: An agency of the State of Illinois or a unit of local
government in the State of Illinois that is vested by law or ordinance with the
duty to maintain public order and to enforce criminal laws or ordinances.
LICENSING AGENT: The raffle or poker run licensing agent for the Village of
Lake Villa is the Village Administrator, or his or her designee.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
OTHER: Unless the context otherwise requires, all words and phrases used herein
shall have the same meaning as the same or similar words or phrases defined and
used in the state law and in the raffles act 1  in particular.
POKER RUN: A prize-awarding event organized by an organization licensed under
the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15) in which participants travel to
multiple predetermined locations, including a key location, to play a
randomized game based on an element of chance. “Poker run” includes dice runs,
marble runs, or other events where the objective is to build the best hand or
highest score by obtaining an item or playing a randomized game at each
location.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in subsection (b) of Section 28-2 of the
Criminal Code of 2012, conducted by an organization licensed under the Raffles
and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15), in which: (1) the player pays or agreed to
pay something of value for a chance, represented and differentiated by a number
or by a combination of numbers or by some other medium, one or more of which
chances is to be designated the winning chance; and (2) the winning chance is
to be determined through a drawing or by some other method based on an element
of chanced by an act or set of acts on the part of persons conducting or
connected with the lottery, except that the winning chance shall not be
determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting contest. “Raffle”
does not include any game designed to simulate: (1) gambling games as defined
in the Illinois Gambling Act, (2) any casino game approved for play by the
Illinois Gaming Board, (3) any games provided by a video gaming terminal, as
defined in the Video Gaming Act, or (4) a savings promotion raffle authorized
under Section 5g of the Illinois Banking Act, Section 7008 of the Savings Bank
Act, Section 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act, Section 5136B of the
National Bank Act, or Section 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act.
STATE LAW: Whenever reference herein is made to “state law” it shall mean and
refer to an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois, entitled “an
act to provide for licensing and regulating certain games of chance and
amending certain acts herein named”, approved August 5, 1981, commonly known as
and sometimes referred to herein as the “Raffles and Poker Runs Act1", as
amended from time to time.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-
26-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-10-02, 10-16-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
3-16-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   A license to operate a raffle or poker run shall be issued only to a
fire protection agency or association, any law enforcement agency or
association, or any bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business,
fraternal, educational, or veterans’ organizations, that operate without profit
to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of
five (5) years immediately before making application for a license and which
have had during the entire five (5) year period a bona fide membership engaged
in carrying out their objectives, i.e., an organization described and
qualifying as set forth in 230 ILCS 215/2, “Licensing”, of the Raffles and
Poker Runs Act, as amended from time to time.
   B.   No license to operate a raffle or poker run shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2 or B3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or
in which a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which such a person defined in subsection B1, B2
or B3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated
or not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle
or poker run as described by state law. (Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-26-2007; amd. Ord.
2023-10-02, 10-16-2023)
3-16-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Required Information: Application forms shall be furnished by the
Village Administrator, or his or her designee, and filed with same. Said
applications shall show the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      3.   Place and date of chartering or incorporation of applicant, if
applicable;
      4.   Name, address, telephone number, social security number and date of
birth of presiding officer, secretary, and raffle or poker run manager of
applicant;
      5.   The area or areas in which raffle or poker run tickets will be sold;
      6.   A list of prizes and the retail of each prize to be awarded in a
single raffle; and
      7.   The price to be charged for each ticket sold.
   B.   Statement Of Accuracy: The license application shall contain a sworn
statement attesting to the accuracy of the information provided and to the not
for profit character of the prospective licensee. Said statement shall be
signed by the presiding officer, secretary, and raffle or poker run manager of
that prospective licensee.
   C.   Application Valid For One Raffle or One Poker Run or A Specific Number
Within A Specified Period: An application for a license under this chapter is
valid for one raffle or one poker run only or for a specified number of raffles
or poker runs to be conducted during a specified period not to exceed one year,
and such license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this chapter
or of the Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
   D.   Exception: Any raffle or poker run in which the aggregate value of the
prizes is fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or less shall be considered
automatically licensed without necessity of any application. (Ord. 2007-09-01,
9-26-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-10-02, 10-16-2023)
3-16-4: REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSEE:
   A.   Conduct Of Raffles or Poker Runs: The conducting of raffles or poker
runs is subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle or poker run must be
exclusively devoted to the lawful purposes of the licensee permitted to conduct
that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide director, officer, employee, or member
of the sponsoring organization may manage or participate in the management or
operation of the raffle or poker run.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      4.   Raffle chances and poker run tickets may be sold or issued only
within the area or areas specified on the license.
      5.   Winning chances on a raffle or a winning hand or score in a poker
run must be determined only at the time, date, and location, i.e.. the Kev
Location, specified on the license.
      6.   Any person selling raffle chances and/or poker run tickets must
carry a copy of the license issued for the raffle or poker run.
   B.   Raffle or Poker Run Limits:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle or poker run shall not exceed the amount of the
fidelity bond specified in Paragraph C below, if applicable.
      2.   The maximum number of days during which raffle chances and/or poker
run tickets may be issued or sold shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180).
      3.   The license shall not be valid for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
   C.   Raffle or Poker Run Manager And Bond:
      1.   All operation and conduct of raffles and/or poker runs shall be
under the supervision of a single person who shall be designated as the raffle
or poker run manager of the applicant on the license application.
      2.   An applicant’s raffle or poker run manager shall give a fidelity
bond in the sum of the aggregate retail value of the prizes as set out on the
application. The bond shall be in favor of the licensed organization
conditioned upon the raffle or poker run manager’s honesty in the performance
of his or her duties. Said bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the Village Administrator not less than thirty (30) days prior to
its cancellation period. However, the requirement for such a fidelity bond may
be waived by a unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
      3.   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section and/or of this
Chapter to the contrary, a fidelity bond for a raffle or poker run manager
shall neither be required by this Chapter nor be filed with the Village Clerk
unless the aggregate prize value of the raffle or poker run exceeds Fifty
Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) and, in any event, neither the Village Clerk nor
any other officer, employee, or agent of the Village shall be obligated to
review, approve, or otherwise inquire as to the status and/or the form of any
such raffle or poker run manager’s fidelity bond, provided that such a waiver
of a fidelity bond by a licensed organization shall require an affirmative
majority vote of the members of the organization, or if the organization does
not have members, then an affirmative majority vote by the governing board of
the organization.
   D.   Records:
      1.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle or poker run programs
shall be segregated from other revenues of the licensee (including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same licensee pursuant to
license issued by the Department of Revenue of the State), and placed in a
separate account. Each organization shall have separate records of its raffles
or poker runs. The person who accounts for gross receipts and expenses from the
operation of raffles or poker runs shall not be the same person who accounts
for other revenues of the organization.
      2.   Each licensee shall keep records of gross receipts, expenses, and
net proceeds for each single raffle or poker run for which tickets are sold.
All reasonable operating expenses deducted from gross receipts for each single
raffle or poker run shall be documented with receipts of other records
indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other
reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds
shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
      3.   Each licensee, within thirty (30) days of the raffle or poker run,
shall report to its membership, if any, or to its governing board and to the
Village Administrator each of the following:
         a. Gross receipts generated by the conducting of the raffle or poker
run;
         b.   An itemized list of all reasonable operating expenses which have
been deducted from the gross receipts;
         c.   Net proceeds from the conducting of the raffle or poker run;
         d.   An itemized list of the distribution of the net proceeds; and
         e.   A list of prize winners.
      4.   Records required by this Section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and the organization shall make available for public inspection their
records relating to the operation of a raffle or poker run at reasonable times
and places.
   E.   Gambling Prohibited: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
authorize the conducting or operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise,
activity, or device other than raffles or poker runs as provided by state law.
(Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-26-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-10-02, 10-16-2023)
3-16-5: LICENSE FEES:
The non-refundable fees required to be paid for any license as may be required
by this chapter shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code and are hereby established and shall be payable to
the village of Lake Villa.
(Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-26-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-10-02, 10-16-2023; Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
3-16-6: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The raffle or poker run licensing agent shall be charged with the
administration of this chapter.
   B.   The authority and jurisdiction of the village to issue a license to a
prospective licensee shall extend only to corporate limits of the village.
   C.   The raffle or poker run licensing agent shall act upon a license
application within ten (10) days from the date of the application.
   D.   The Mayor and the Village Clerk may enter into a written contract with
one or more municipalities which have adopted a raffle and/or poker run
ordinance consistent with this Chapter to jointly establish a system for the
licensing of organizations to operate raffles and/or poker runs within the
corporate limits of any municipality that is a party of such contract. Such
contract shall be consistent with the limitations of this Chapter except that a
license issued by one government unit shall be valid throughout the
jurisdiction of all parties to the contract. (Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-26-2007; amd.
Ord. 2023-10-02, 10-16-2023)
3-16-7: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalties: Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this
Chapter shall constitute a violation. Whoever violates any of the provisions of
this Chapter is subject to a mandatory daily fine as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Each day each violation exists or continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Prevention of Unlawful Raffles or Poker Runs: The imposition of the
penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the State’s Attorney or Village
Prosecutor from instituting appropriate action to prevent unlawful raffles and/
or poker runs or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation of this Chapter or
of the conditions of a raffle or poker run license issued pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-26-2007; amd. Ord. 2023-10-02, 10-16-2023; Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 17
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-17-1: Short Title
3-17-2: Scope
3-17-3: Definitions
3-17-4: Notices
3-17-5: Late Payment
3-17-6: Payment
3-17-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-17-8: Audit Procedure
3-17-9: Appeal
3-17-10: Hearing
3-17-11: Interest And Penalties
3-17-12: Abatement
3-17-13: Installment Contracts
3-17-14: Statute Of Limitations
3-17-15: Voluntary Disclosure
3-17-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
3-17-17: Internal Review Of Liens
3-17-18: Application
3-17-1: SHORT TITLE:
The title of this chapter shall be LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS
AND RESPONSIBILITIES. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to them
as follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The president and board of trustees of the village of
Lake Villa.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance and/or any paragraph, section, chapter, or title
of this code that imposes any locally imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2007-11-01,
11-14-2007)
3-17-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing, mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the village with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Mandatory audits pursuant to any locally administered tax shall not be
conducted more frequently than once every two (2) years, and any requests for a
proposed audit thereof shall comply with the notice requirements of this
section.
   B.   Taxpayers shall be notified in writing by the local tax administrator
of a proposed audit of the taxpayer's books and records. Each notice of audit
shall contain the following information:
      1.   The type of or name of the tax to be audited;
      2.   The time period of the audit;
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available by
the taxpayer for the auditor;
      4.   The identity of the person(s) and/or firm who will be conducting the
audit. For audits being conducted by third party providers, the local tax
administrator shall provide to the taxpayer written authorization for the third
party provider to review the books and records of the taxpayer. No contact with
the taxpayer may be made by the third party provider until written
authorization by the local tax administrator is received by the taxpayer. Said
authorization shall be deemed received by the taxpayer three (3) days after its
mailing to the taxpayer by regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid.
   C.   The auditor may be required to execute a confidentiality agreement upon
request by the taxpayer. Upon the completion of the audit, the local tax
administrator shall issue an audit closure report to the taxpayer and provide a
copy of the results of the audit to the taxpayer.
   D.   Any audit shall be conducted during the taxpayer's normal business
hours at a date and time selected by the local tax administrator. If the
proposed date and time for the audit is not agreeable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer may negotiate with the local tax administrator another date and time
for the proposed audit within thirty (30) days after the originally designated
audit date and during the taxpayer's normal business hours.
   E.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days, nor more
than thirty (30) days, from the date the notice of the proposed audit is mailed
to the taxpayer, unless the taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to
some other convenient time. In the event the taxpayer is unable to comply with
the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within
sixty (60) days from the date of the original notice of audit, which must be
approved in writing by the local tax administrator, which date must be
reasonably convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   F.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   G.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer, or tax
collector, fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   H.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, then upon request by a
unit of local government, the audit information must be given to any unit of
local government that may be affected by an overpayment.
   I.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2011-04-04, 4-13-2011)
3-17-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section 3-17-9 of this chapter, the
local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the
time or manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the
village issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a
failure to file penalty shall be assessed as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for the applicable reporting period for which the
return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not
apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-17-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due or end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-
14-2007)
3-17-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-17: INTERNAL REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
3-17-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance or any tax
provision of this code is in conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter,
this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
CHAPTER 18
MUNICIPAL GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definitions
3-18-2: Tax Imposed
3-18-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-18-4: Tax Is Additional
3-18-5: Determination And Implementation Of Tax
3-18-6: Return Filed; Payment Of Tax
3-18-7: Credit Issued
3-18-8: Limitations On Collection Of Tax
3-18-9: Periodic Review
3-18-10: Penalties
3-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the
case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever, provided, however,
that "gross receipts" shall not include any amounts specifically excluded from
the definition of gross receipts in section 8-11-2(d) of the Illinois municipal
code.
PERSONS: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, or a
receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any
court.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-
10-2010)
3-18-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code is imposed on all persons engaged in the business
of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption
within the corporate limits of the village and not for resale. (Ord. 2010-02-
05, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-18-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas be
subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for such transactions
as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the "municipal
retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-
11-1.1. (Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-10-2010)
3-18-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use
of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereupon, or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment
used in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-10-2010)
3-18-5: DETERMINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF TAX:
The tax provided for in this chapter shall be based on the "gross receipts", as
herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after
March 1, 2010. (Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-10-2010)
3-18-6: RETURN FILED; PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   On or before April 30, 2010, each taxpayer shall make a return to the
village treasurer, or his or her designee, for the month of March 2010,
stating:
      1.   His name;
      2.   His principal place of business;
      3.   His gross receipts during the month upon the basis of which the tax
is imposed;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities of the village or the village treasurer, or his or her designee,
may require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the village for a corresponding one month period.
   C.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed,
provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord.
2010-02-05, 2-10-2010)
3-18-7: CREDIT ISSUED:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 2010-02-05,
2-10-2010)
3-18-8: LIMITATIONS ON COLLECTION OF TAX:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-10-2010)
3-18-9: PERIODIC REVIEW:
The corporate authorities of the village, in consultation with the village
treasurer, shall periodically review the continuing need for the revenue
derived from the tax due established by this chapter in light of the changing
fiscal condition of the village, and such review and consultation shall occur
not less than every five (5) years; provided, however, that the tax provided
for in this chapter shall remain in full force and effect until further action
is taken by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-10-
2010)
3-18-10: PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a mandatory fine
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action
for the amount of tax due and unpaid. (Ord. 2010-02-05, 2-10-2010; amd. Ord.
2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 19
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-19-1: Definitions
3-19-2: Tax Imposed
3-19-3: Exemptions From Tax
3-19-4: Tax Is Additional
3-19-5: Compliance With Other Laws
3-19-6: Implementation Of Tax
3-19-7: Collection Of Tax
3-19-8: Tax Remittance And Return
3-19-9: Books And Records
3-19-10: Credits And Refunds
3-19-11: Periodic Review
3-19-12: Penalties
3-19-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the tax authorized by this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3-105 of the
public utilities act and shall include telecommunications carriers as defined
in section 13-202 of that act and alternate retail electric suppliers as
defined in section 16-102 of that act.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-
10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-2: TAX IMPOSED:
Pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code and any and all other
applicable authority, a tax as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed
within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated
on a monthly basis for each purchaser. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-
2010; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-19-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   Reselling: Electricity that is delivered to a person in the village
shall be considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the
person receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the
village treasurer, or his or her designee, and furnishes that number to the
person who delivers the electricity, and certifies to that person that the sale
is either entirely or partially nontaxable as a sale for resale.
      1.   Application For Resale Number; Issuance: If a person who receives
electricity in the village claims to be an authorized reseller of electricity,
such person shall apply to the village treasurer, or his or her designee, for a
resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will show the village why
such applicant is not liable for the tax imposed by this chapter on any of such
purchases of electricity and shall furnish such additional information as the
village may reasonably require. Upon approval of the application, the village
treasurer, or his or her designee, shall assign a resale number to the
applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
      2.   Cancellation Of Resale Number: The village treasurer, or his or her
designee, may cancel any resale number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to obtain electricity used or consumed by
such person tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no
longer applies because such person has discontinued making resales.
      3.   Partial Resale: If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for
use or consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax
imposed by this chapter directly to the village pursuant to subsection 3-19-8B
of this chapter on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or
consumes, and shall collect the tax pursuant to section 3-19-7 of this chapter
and remit the tax pursuant to subsection 3-19-8A of this chapter on the amount
of electricity delivered by the reseller to a purchaser. Any person who
delivers electricity to a reseller having an active resale number and complying
with all other conditions of this chapter shall be excused from collecting and
remitting the tax on any portion of the electricity delivered to the reseller;
provided that such person reports to the village treasurer, or his or her
designee, the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the village treasurer, or his or her designee, may
reasonably require. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
This tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures imposed
by the village, the state, or any other political subdivision of the state.
(Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the tax shall not be
imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax would
violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the constitution
or statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-
2010)
3-19-6: IMPLEMENTATION OF TAX:
The tax imposed by this chapter with respect to the use or consumption of
electricity shall become effective on April 1, 2010, and shall be in full force
and effect thereafter. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-7: COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of section 3-19-3 of this chapter regarding
the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed under this chapter
shall be collected from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of
business in the state who delivers electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity
to the purchaser and if unpaid is recoverable in the same manner as the
original charge for delivering the electricity.
   B.   Any tax required to be collected by this chapter and any such tax which
is collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to
the village by the person delivering the electricity, provided that the person
delivering electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to
deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible; and provided further that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
   C.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser
by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the village upon request. For purposes of this section, any partial payment
not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the
delivery of electricity. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect
the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the village. Persons delivering electricity who file returns
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall, at the time of filing such
return, pay the village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-8: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   Every tax collector shall on a monthly basis make and file a tax return
in a form prescribed by the village treasurer, or his or her designee. The tax
return shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the month
during which the tax is collected or is required to be collected under section
3-19-7 of this chapter. The tax collectors filing returns pursuant to this
chapter shall at the time of filing such return pay the village the amount of
the tax imposed by this chapter.
   B.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under section 3-19-3 of this
chapter, then the purchaser shall file a tax return in a form prescribed by the
village treasurer, or his or her designee, and pay the tax directly to the
village on or before the last day of the month following the month during which
the electricity is used or consumed. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-
2010)
3-19-9: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every tax collector, and every taxpayer required to pay the tax imposed by this
chapter shall keep accurate books and records of the business or activity,
including contemporaneous books and records denoting the transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability under this chapter. The
books and records shall be subject to and available for inspection at all times
during business hours of the day. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-10: CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to permit sound
fiscal planning and budgeting by the village, no person shall be entitled to a
refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under this chapter unless such person
files a claim for refund or credit within one year after the date on which the
tax was paid. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010)
3-19-11: PERIODIC REVIEW:
The corporate authorities of the village, in consultation with the village
treasurer, shall periodically review the continuing need for the revenue
derived from the tax due established by this chapter in light of the changing
fiscal condition of the village, and such review and consultation shall occur
not less than every five (5) years, provided, however, the tax provided in this
chapter shall remain in full force and effect until further action is taken by
the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-
1-2010)
3-19-12: PENALTIES:
Every person convicted of a violation of this chapter for failing to make a
return, or for making a fraudulent return, or for wilfully violating any other
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. In addition to the fine herein set forth, such
person shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due and unpaid.
(Ord. 2010-02-06, 2-10-2010, eff. 4-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 20
VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
SECTION:
3-20-1: Definitions
3-20-2: Annual User Fee Required For Any Video Gaming Terminal
3-20-3: Video Gaming Terminals Permitted
3-20-4: Village Policy Relative To Video Gaming Cafes
3-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term "video gaming terminal" shall be as defined in the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40, as amended from time to time
(the "Video Gaming Act"). (Ord. 2012-08-02, 8-8-2012)
3-20-2: ANNUAL USER FEE REQUIRED FOR ANY VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL:
   A.   Video Gaming Terminal User Fee: An annual user fee for each calendar
year is hereby imposed upon each video gaming terminal located and/or operated
in the Village.
   B.   Village Database Maintained: Each operator of a video gaming terminal
within the Village shall provide to the Village the following required
information for entry into a database which shall be maintained by the Village
relative thereto, which information shall include but not be limited to: (i)
the name of the operator of the premises, (ii) the telephone number and email
address of the operator, (iii) the address where the video gaming terminals are
or will be located, (iv) the number of video gaming terminals on the subject
premises, (v) the serial number of each video gaming terminal on the subject
premises, (vi) the brand name of the video gaming terminal, (vii) the type of
video gaming terminal, and (viii) a copy of the current state license issued to
the operator for each such video gaming terminal.
   C.   Payment of Annual User Fee Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any video gaming
terminal within the Village for use by any other person unless the annual user
fee thereon pursuant to this chapter has been paid for the current year. It
shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain or use, or permit
the installation, keeping, maintenance, or use upon any premises within the
Village of any video gaming terminal upon which such annual user fee has not
been paid.
      2.   After providing to the Village the required information for the
Village database and a copy of the operator's current state license as set
forth in paragraph B hereof and paying the annual user fee required for each
video gaming terminal, the operator of the premises where such video gaming
terminal(s) is or are located shall be authorized to use and operate each such
video gaming terminal for such calendar year.
   D.   User Fee Specified: Such non-refundable annual user fee for each video
gaming terminal for any calendar year, or portion thereof, before January 1,
2022 shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per terminal for each calendar year.
For each calendar year, or portion thereof, beginning on or after January 1,
2022, a non- refundable annual user fee shall be as specified from time to time
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2012-08-02, 8-8-2012; amd. Ord. 2022-02-02,
2-8-2022; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
3-20-3: VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS PERMITTED:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Code to the contrary, video gaming
terminals shall be permitted within the Village but only in compliance with
this chapter and the Video Gaming Act. (Ord. 2012-08-02, 8-8-2012)
3-20-4: VILLAGE POLICY RELATIVE TO VIDEO GAMING CAFES:
   A.   Effective August 23, 2017, it is the policy of the Corporate
Authorities of the Village to not create any new liquor licenses for any
additional video gaming cafes in the Village, because the proliferation of such
establishments within the Village will discourage new restaurants from being
established within the Village and will thereby reduce the growth in the
Village's commercial tax base, except under the exceptions identified in
subsection B of this section. For purposes of this section and the Village
policy set forth herein, a video gaming cafe is defined as an establishment
whose primary or a major focus is video gaming, and the service of alcoholic
beverages and/or food is secondary to the video gaming operation. The following
factors shall be considered by the Corporate Authorities of the Village when
determining if a proposed establishment is a video gaming cafe:
      1.   The layout and design of the establishment;
      2.   The preparation and variety of food and beverages offered;
      3.   The creation and operation of a commercial kitchen on the premises
where gaming is situated or a partnership with an establishment that operates a
commercial kitchen;
      4.   The proposed number of video gaming machines relative to the
proposed customer seating capacity of the establishment must be at least ten
(10) customer seats to one video gaming terminal;
      5.   The square footage of space devoted to video gaming relative to the
amount of space which will be devoted to other activities must be at least four
(4) times as much space for non-gaming activities in comparison to the space
which will be devoted to video gaming;
      6.   The sources of proposed or actual revenue derived from an
establishment;
      7.   Whether the establishment is proposed to be marketed as a gaming
establishment and whether the establishment will have a gambling theme;
      8.   The number of employees of the establishment and their respective
proposed functions; and
      9.   Any other factors as determined relevant by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village and/or by the Village of Lake Villa Liquor
Commissioner.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporate Authorities of the
Village, in their sole discretion, may, however, consider creating a liquor
license for a video gaming cafe if one or more of the following conditions are
present:
      1.   The presence of a complementary nearby establishment that serves a
variety of food and beverages where another video gaming cafe is not in close
proximity; or
      2.   The proximity of the video gaming cafe to another establishment with
video gaming terminals; or
      3.   Whether the video gaming cafe offers a unique business opportunity
not then present in the Village. (Ord. 2017-08-02, 8-23-2017)
CHAPTER 21
SIDEWALK CAFES
SECTION:
3-21-1: Sidewalk Cafes; Provisions
3-21-1: SIDEWALK CAFES; PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person or entity shall place tables, chairs,
equipment, or other portable appurtenances upon any public sidewalk within the
Village or upon any Village road, street, or alley or upon other Village
property, or for an outdoor use on private property for the purpose of the sale
and serving of food and beverages to customers for on-site consumption without
having first obtained a permit from the Village for such outdoor use.
   B.   Applicant With Liquor License: If an applicant for such permit is a
holder of a current and valid Class A or Class C liquor license which
authorizes the sale and serving of alcoholic beverages at its place of
business, such applicant shall also be required to obtain from the Village a
Class J liquor license for a location on Village property, or a Class G liquor
license for an outdoor use location on private property prior to and as a
condition precedent to its obtaining a permit from the Village for such outdoor
use.
   C.   Applicant Without Liquor License: In the event an applicant for a
permit for any such outdoor use does not hold a current and valid Class A or a
Class C liquor license and a current and valid Class J or Class G liquor
license, no alcoholic beverages may be served in the outdoor premises.
   D.   Required Fees:
   1.   Application Fee: The non-refundable application fee for a permit for a
sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area or for such an outdoor use area
on private property shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   2.   Permit Fee For A Sidewalk Cafe, Or For An Outdoor Private Use Area, Or
For An Outdoor Area On Private Property: The annual fee for a permit for a
sidewalk cafe or for an outdoor private use area, or for such an outdoor use
area on private property, and/or any renewal thereof, shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each permit year, or portion thereof. This
shall be a fixed fee for each permit year, or portion thereof, and shall not be
prorated.
      3.   Waiver Or Reduction Of Fee(s): Notwithstanding the foregoing fee
provisions, the Mayor of the Village, or his or her designee, may waive or
reduce such fee if he or she, in his or her sole discretion, finds that exigent
circumstances provide good cause for such relief.
   E.   Term: A permit for such an outdoor use shall only be valid from April 1
through November 30 annually. Each holder of such a permit shall be required to
submit to the Village an annual application, together with any required fee(s),
for renewal thereof.
   F.   Application: Any person or entity desiring to obtain a permit for such
an outdoor use from the Village shall submit to the Village an application for
such a permit in such form as the Village may prescribe. Such application shall
be accompanied by such documentation that the Village may require to
appropriately consider and investigate the application as well as the payment
of the permit fee for such application, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Plat, Plan Or Drawing: A copy of a plat, plan, or drawing
indicating, to scale, the public sidewalk or other outdoor public area or such
private outdoor area that the applicant is seeking permission to occupy and the
location of furniture, equipment, and any other articles of the applicant which
are proposed to be utilized in connection with such outdoor use and intended to
occupy the public sidewalk, road, street, or alley, or on other Village
property or for an outdoor use on private property for which a permit is being
requested.
      2.   Insurance: Proof of insurance, including the dram shop insurance
coverage as required by Illinois Statutes if the applicant sells and serves
alcoholic beverages anywhere on the outdoor licensed premises, with a
Certificate of Insurance which shall also comply with the following
requirements:
         a.   The Certificate of Insurance shall evidence commercial general
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and in the aggregate as a combined single limit,
for personal injury, bodily injury, and property damage liability.
         b.   The Certificate of Insurance shall also evidence liquor liability
in the amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence and in the aggregate as a combined single limit, as well as dram
shop coverage for the licensed premises, including the Village premises in the
required statutory amount(s) if the applicant holds any current and valid Class
J or Class G liquor license or has applied for one.
         c.   The applicant's insurance coverage shall be primary and non-
contributory as respects the Village of Lake Villa and its officers, officials,
employees, agents and volunteers for any liability arising directly or
indirectly from the operations of a sidewalk cafe and/or from the Village
permit issued for such outdoor use.
         d.   Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the Village of Lake
Villa and/or on behalf of its officers, officials, employees, agents and/or
volunteers shall be in excess of the applicant's insurance and shall not
contribute to it.
         e.   The "Description" section of all Certificates of Insurance shall
name the Village of Lake Villa, its elected and appointed officials, officers,
employees, and agents as additional insureds in regard to the establishment and
operation of any such sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area, or for
an outdoor area on private property and relative to the Village permit issued
for such outdoor use.
      3.   Ownership Or Lease: Proof of ownership or a copy of the lease and
other satisfactory evidence of the applicant's ownership and/or leasehold
occupancy of any outdoor area on private property and the applicant’s
proprietorship of the business which will operate such outdoor area which is
proposed.
      4.   Indemnification Agreement: As a condition precedent to the Village's
issuance of a permit for a sidewalk cafe or outdoor private use area or for an
outdoor area on private property, the applicant shall agree to indemnify,
defend, and hold harmless the Village of Lake Villa, its elected and appointed
officials, officers, agents, and employees from any and all claims, actions,
injuries, or damages of every kind and description which may accrue to or be
suffered by any person by reason of or related to the establishment and/or
operation of any sidewalk cafe or outdoor private use area on any Village
property or any outdoor area on private property and shall be required to
execute an indemnification agreement substantially in the following form:
         INDEMNIFICATION AND
         HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT
      
         RE: PERMIT FOR SIDEWALK CAFE OR OUTDOOR PRIVATE USE AREA OR OUTDOOR
AREA ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
         PERMIT NUMBER:          
         NAME OF APPLICANT:    
         ADDRESS OF APPLICANT’S BUSINESS:    
                                                     , Lake Villa, Illinois
         The undersigned, for himself or herself individually and for the
aforesaid Applicant(s), represents and warrants to the Village of Lake Villa
that the undersigned is a duly authorized representative of the Applicant(s)
authorized to execute this Indemnification and Hold Harmless Agreement (the
"Agreement") on behalf of the Applicant(s) and agrees to and shall, to the
greatest extent permitted by law, indemnify and hold harmless and defend the
Village of Lake Villa (the "Village"), its elected and appointed officials,
officers, employees, and agents ("Village indemnitees") from and against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the Permit issued or to be issued
by the Village to the aforesaid Applicant(s) for the purpose of establishing
and operating a Sidewalk Cafe or other Outdoor Private Use Area or an Outdoor
Area on Private Property. The Applicant(s) shall and does hereby further waive
any claims that the Applicant(s) may have against the Village with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability.
         Nothing set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver by the
Village of any defenses or immunities that are or would be otherwise available
to the Village or any Village parties under the provisions of the Illinois
Local Government and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, or that are
otherwise available to local governments and their Corporate Authorities,
officers, employees, agents and volunteers under the common law of the State of
Illinois or the United States of America. The provisions of this Section shall
survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement or renewal
thereof.
         The undersigned Applicant(s) understand and agree that the Permit for
a Sidewalk Cafe or other Outdoor Private Use Area or for an Outdoor Area on
Private Property for which the Applicant(s) are applying is a temporary
license, terminable at will by the Village at any time for any reason or merely
for the convenience of the Village.
         The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall survive the
expiration, termination, suspension, and/or revocation of the Permit granted by
the Village.
         APPLICANT(S):    
         By:       
         Its duly authorized agent
         Print Name:    
         Title:    
         Date:       
   G.   Approval: The approval of an application for a permit for a sidewalk
cafe or for an outdoor private use area or for an outdoor area on private
property may be conditioned upon certain modifications being made to the
applicant’s request which are determined by the Village Administrator to be
necessary to mitigate, reduce, and/or avoid any risk to the public health,
safety, and welfare. If and when the application is approved by the Village
Administrator, such a Permit may be issued to authorize use of a public Village
sidewalk or a specified portion of a Village road, street, alley, or other
Village property and the sale and serving of food and beverages on such Village
premises or in an outdoor area on private property. Applicant(s) who knowingly
furnish false or misleading information or falsely answer any questions and/or
make any false statements in the application for such a Permit, or one who
knowingly furnishes false or misleading information to any Village official
during the application process, may have its application for such a Permit
denied, or if already issued, such Permit may be suspended or revoked, but only
after written notice to the applicant and after an opportunity to be heard has
been provided to the applicant by the Village Administrator.
   H.   Requirements: Upon issuance, a Permit for a sidewalk cafe or other
outdoor private use area, or for an outdoor area on private property shall be
subject to each of the following requirements:
      1.   All sidewalk cafes and other outdoor private use areas and outdoor
areas on private property shall be located only in the specific location
described in the approved application. Furnishings and/or other equipment of an
applicant(s) which have been approved by the Village for location on such
outdoor Village premises may not be modified or substituted without an
additional or supplemental written approval by the Village Administrator.
      2.   All areas authorized by the Village for outdoor use by an applicant
(s) shall be cordoned off in a manner approved by the Village Administrator by
the use of a temporary picket fencing or by use of stanchion poles with ropes
or plastic or metal chain. No permanently affixed fencing or stanchions shall
be allowed, except for an outdoor area on private property.
      3.   No portion of any umbrella or similar shelter located within a
sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area or within an outdoor area on
private property, other than any support member, shall be less than six and
one- half feet (61/2') above ground level. All umbrellas must have a mobile
base.
      4.   The operation of any outdoor area as regulated by this Chapter shall
at all times comply with any and all applicable public health and safety
guidelines and/or regulations as may be issued from time to time by the
Illinois Department of Public Health, the Lake County Board of Health, the
Center for Disease Control, the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity, and/or any other State or federal agency or jurisdiction.
      5.   Where emergency or exigent circumstances exist and any authorized
officer or employee of the Village gives notice to a permittee to temporarily
move from a location or suspend operations of any such sidewalk cafe or other
outdoor private use or other outdoor use area on private property, such
permittee shall immediately comply with said notice. For purposes of this
paragraph, exigent circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, a threat
of potentially dangerous or severe weather, other circumstances which may
negatively affect the public health, unusually heavy pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, the existence of any obstructions and/or encroachment(s) in the public
space at or near the location of a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use
area or other outdoor area on private property, a parade, a demonstration, or
any other such event or occurrence at or near the location of such a sidewalk
cafe or other outdoor private use area or other outdoor area on private
property, as determined by the Mayor, by the Village Administrator, by the
Chief of Police, or by any of their respective designees.
      6.   Except as otherwise expressly provided in chapter 8 of this title,
the hours of operation of any such sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use
area, or any outdoor area on private property shall be as follows:
 
Monday through Thursday 11:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
Friday                  9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Saturday                9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Sunday                  9:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.
 
      7.   Any holder of a permit for any outdoor area is required to clean and
clear the area authorized by the Village for outdoor private use no later than
ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday,
and no later than twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight on Friday and Saturday,
including but not limited to disposal of any litter and/or debris deposited on,
in, or adjoining the vicinity of the outdoor area, and all of the permittee’s
equipment and items used for seating, including but not limited to umbrellas,
chairs, tables, stations, etc. within the outdoor premises authorized by the
Village for outdoor private use shall be removed or positioned in a safe manner
as close as possible to the permittee’s building on the adjacent premises until
the next day’s use.
      8.   All food and beverages may be served only in/on a container/dish
made of a product that does not easily shatter or break. Glass and/or other
easily breakable containers/dishes are prohibited on and/or within any outdoor
premises.
      9.   Tables located within the sidewalk cafe area or other outdoor
private use area, or within any outdoor area on private property shall be
cleared of all moveable items when not being used or when outside of the hours
authorized for use.
      10.   No smoking shall be allowed within the sidewalk cafe area or within
such other outdoor private use area.
      11.   Any refuse or trash containers placed upon or located within any
sidewalk cafe area or any outdoor private use area by the permittee shall be
emptied by the permittee daily. Unemptied refuse or trash containers shall not
be allowed to remain on any such sidewalk cafe area or on any outdoor private
use area after the respective times provided in this chapter for the final
daily clearing of the sidewalk cafe area or other outdoor private use area. A
permittee’s refuse or trash shall not be placed into any Village refuse or
trash container and shall be properly disposed of by the permittee in one or
more private refuse containers.
      12.   The permittee shall at all times conduct all activities within the
sidewalk cafe area or within some other outdoor private use area or other
outdoor area on private property in an orderly fashion and in such a manner as
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      13.   The permittee shall comply with all applicable health, sanitation,
and safety rules and regulations relative to the sale and serving of food and/
or beverages, but alcoholic beverages may be sold and served on the sidewalk
cafe premises or on any outdoor private use area only if the permittee has a
current and valid Class J liquor license to authorize the sale and serving of
alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private
use area.
      14.   The name of the insured shown on the permittee's Certificate of
Insurance must be the same name as the person or entity that applied for the
permit for a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area or for an outdoor
area on private property.
      15.   The permit for a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area,
or for an outdoor area on private property shall be displayed and kept posted
in a conspicuous place on the exterior of the business premises of the
permittee.
      16.   The following additional restrictions shall be applicable with
respect to the outdoor premises of any sidewalk cafe or any outdoor private use
area or an outdoor area on private property authorized by the Village:
         a.   The premises of a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use
area, or an outdoor area on private property shall not in any way block any
entrance to or exit from the building(s) used for the licensed premises.
         b.   The premises of a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor private use area
shall be fully enclosed in such a manner so as to prohibit ingress to and
egress from the area of the outdoor premises except through designated
entrances and exits.
         c.   The maximum number of persons allowed at any time within such a
sidewalk cafe or within such other outdoor private use area or an outdoor area
on private property shall not exceed the permitted occupancy of said area as
determined by the Village’s Building Officer.
         d.   Live entertainment shall not be permitted on the premises or any
sidewalk cafe or the premises of any other outdoor private use area or of an
outdoor area on private property except when specifically approved in advance
in writing by the Mayor and Board of Trustees. Any other type of entertainment
and/or music provided shall not exceed sixty (60) decibels in noise level as
measured from any private property in the vicinity, other than from the
property of the applicant(s).
         e.   Any artificial lighting of the premises of any sidewalk cafe or
of any other outdoor private use area or of an outdoor area on private property
shall be sufficient to provide for the safety and security of all persons using
such area, but shall not be at such a level so as to create a nuisance or to
inhibit the normal use and enjoyment on other properties in the vicinity.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the artificial lighting shall not exceed one-
tenth (0.1) foot-candle both anywhere within and also on the boundaries of the
sidewalk cafe area or other outdoor private use area or of an outdoor area on
private property.
         f.   The entire operation and use of the premises of a sidewalk cafe
or of some other outdoor private use area or of an outdoor area on private
property shall be carried on so as to not pose any potential risk to the public
health, safety, or welfare or to create a nuisance or to interfere with the use
and enjoyment on other properties in the vicinity.
   I.   Suspension; Revocation: A permittee's failure to comply with any of the
above requirements of this chapter may result in the suspension and/or
revocation by the Mayor or by the Village Administrator of the permit issued by
the Village for such sidewalk cafe or for some other outdoor private use area
or for an outdoor area on private property. In addition, the Corporate
Authorities of the Village, the Mayor, or the Village Administrator as their
designee, may immediately terminate any license for an outdoor area issued a
permit pursuant to this chapter if the Corporate Authorities, the Mayor, or the
Village Administrator determine that such permit presents a substantial risk to
or potential negative impact upon the public health, safety, and/or welfare of
the Village or that such license is for any reason otherwise not in the best
interest of the Village.
   J.   Permit Not Assignable Or Transferable: Any permit for a sidewalk cafe
or for any other outdoor private use area or for an outdoor area on private
property issued pursuant to this section shall be a personal privilege provided
to the respective applicant and may not be transferred or alienated, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily.
   K.   Liquor License Required:
      1.   The holder of a Class A or Class C liquor license who wishes to
obtain a permit to establish and/or operate a sidewalk cafe or other outdoor
private use area or an outdoor area on private property within the Village
shall also be required to obtain and maintain a current and valid Class J
liquor license created by the Village Board of Trustees and issued by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner prior to being authorized to sell and serve
alcoholic liquor within such outdoor premises. A permittee holding a Class J or
Class G liquor license shall comply with all of the applicable rules and
regulations set forth in chapter 8, “Liquor Regulations,” of this title, or any
other applicable provision(s) of this Code.
         a.   Any alcoholic liquor sold or served outdoor premises shall be
limited to the specific alcoholic liquor authorized by the current and valid
liquor license(s) held by a permittee.
         b.   If the holder of a permit for a sidewalk cafe or such other
outdoor private use area or outdoor area on private property holds a Class J or
Class G liquor license, neither the permittee, nor any officer, agent, or
employee of the permittee, shall sell, serve, or allow such patrons to consume
alcoholic liquor on the outdoor premises unless such patrons are located within
the authorized area thereof identified in the approved site plans.
         c.   Alcoholic liquor shall not be brought into and/or onto the
premises of a sidewalk cafe area or into or onto the premises of such other
outdoor private use area, except by the permittee or by the employees of such
permittee carrying alcoholic liquor directly between the licensed establishment
and the authorized outdoor area of such establishment, and then only if the
permittee holds a current and valid Class J or Class G liquor license and
except that a customer of a Class J or Class G Licensee may bring onto such
outdoor premises his or her own bottle of wine still with the original seal
intact for serving in accordance with the terms of a current and valid Class H
license, if one has been issued to the permittee.
         d.   Unless the permittee holds both a current and valid Class J or
Class G liquor license and a current and valid Class H liquor license, neither
a permittee, nor any officer, employee, or agent of a permittee, shall permit
alcoholic liquor to be brought by a patron or customer into and/or onto the
authorized outdoor premises from off of any licensed premises.
         e.   Alcoholic liquor shall not be removed from the outdoor premises,
unless such permittee holds a current and valid Class J or Class G liquor
license and then only when such permittee or its employees are carrying
alcoholic liquor directly between the licensed establishment and the authorized
outdoor premises or except as provided pursuant to either Section 6-28.8 or
Section 6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act.
         f.   A permittee which holds a valid Class J or Class G liquor license
and its employees shall monitor the activities and movements of its patrons and
customers to ensure that alcoholic liquor is not removed from or brought into
and/or onto the outdoor premises except from the related licensed premises.
(Ord. 2018-11-02, 11-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-06-01, 6-1-2020; Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-1.1: Purpose
4-1-2: Nuisance Declared
4-1-3: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter and in order to carry out its provisions and
intentions, certain words, terms and phrases shall be determined to have the
meanings ascribed to them herein.
Words in the singular number include the plural, and those in the plural number
include the singular. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
DONATION BOX: A freestanding accessory structure, container, receptacle, or
similar device that is used for soliciting and collecting donations of clothing
or other salvageable personal property, provided, however, that this term
excludes any unattended donation boxes located within a secured building.
JUNK: Shall include, but is not limited to, discarded paper, cartons, boxes,
barrels, wood, plastics, metals, pieces of glass, crockery and other discarded
manufactured items.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy and wagon.
VEHICLE, ABANDONED: Abandoned vehicles are vehicles located on public or
private property which are allowed to remain on public property, or on private
property without the consent of the owner, for a period of more than twenty
four (24) hours.
VEHICLE, UNLICENSED AND/OR UNREGISTERED: Any vehicle which under the laws of
the state of Illinois would be required to be licensed or registered in order
to be operated on public highways within the state and/or which under the
ordinances of the village is required to bear a current sticker unless the
vehicle shall be entirely within a fully enclosed building. (Ord. 2013-05-02,
5-22-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-08-03, 8-27-2014)
4-1-1.1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to define and abate public nuisances to prevent
detriment to the people of Lake Villa and to the property values within the
village. The nuisances defined herein are detrimental to the safety, health and
public welfare, and are deemed adverse to the conservation of property values.
(Ord. 2013-05-02, 5-22-2013)
4-1-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The following are declared to be public nuisances when they exist upon property
within the limits of the village and are hereby prohibited:
   A.   Junk Accumulation: To cause, permit, or allow the accumulation or
storage within the village of trash, junk, and partially dismantled motor
vehicle, wrecked motor vehicle, any unlicensed or unregistered motor vehicle
which under the laws of the state would be required to be licensed or
registered in order to be operated on public highways within the state,
discarded appliances, used machinery, refuse, garbage, discarded furniture,
rubble, or other similar items or materials, whether on public or private
property, for a period in excess of thirty (30) days unless the same shall be
situated within a suitable enclosed building provided for the purpose.
   B.   Donation Boxes: Donation boxes are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and are hereby prohibited anywhere within the village unless all of
the following conditions are met: 1) such donation box is directly related to
an existing lawful use of the property; 2) such donation box is owned and
operated by the owner of the property on which it is located; and 3) a permit
was secured for such donation box as a temporary use as required by the village
of Lake Villa zoning ordinance in advance of the installation of such donation
box.
   C.   Animals, Where Restricted: The location of farm animals in any zone
other than the applicable zone of the Lake Villa zoning ordinance 1 .
   D.   Offensive Lights: It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, and/or
other person having control of real estate within the village to cause, permit,
or allow any light(s) located on such real estate to illuminate onto property
owned by another person in such a manner as to be offensive to and/or interfere
with the owner(s), tenants, and/or occupants of such other property. Lighting
with an illumination level of greater than three (3) lumens on, or at any
height above, the lot line shall be considered to be offensive, and is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and is prohibited. (Ord. 2013-05-02, 5-22-
2013)
   E.   Unregistered, Unlicensed, And Abandoned Vehicles: Unregistered,
unlicensed, and abandoned vehicles are declared a public nuisance. In addition
to all other remedies, the village shall have such further remedies to abate
such nuisances as are contained in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et
seq., and 5/4-201 through and including 5/4-213 are hereby adopted by
reference.
   F.   Other Nuisances: Any and all items or activities described or declared
to be a nuisance in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, or in this code, as amended
from time to time, are likewise hereby so declared to be public nuisances
pursuant to this code. (Ord. 2014-08-03, 8-27-2014)
   G.   Control Over Other Provisions: This chapter shall control over any
other provisions of this code or of other village ordinances which are
inconsistent herewith. (Ord. 2013-05-02, 5-22-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
4-1-3: PENALTY:
For the purposes of this chapter, a "person" shall mean and include any
individual, corporation, association, partnership, or any other legal entity.
Any person found guilty of or liable for violating any of the terms of this
chapter shallbe subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2013-05-02, 5-22-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ABATEMENT OF CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Violation
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Fines And Other Remedies
4-2-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
4-2-5: Notification Procedure
4-2-6: Commencement Of Action; Burden Of Proof
4-2-7: Emergency Procedures For Securing Of Chronic Nuisance Properties
4-2-8: Discretionary Action
4-2-9: Exempt Conduct
4-2-1: VIOLATION:
   A.   Any certain property within the village of Lake Villa which becomes or
remains a chronic nuisance property is in violation of this chapter and subject
to its remedies.
   B.   Any responsible party, as defined herein, who permits property under
his or her ownership, possession, and/or control to be a public nuisance
property is in violation of this chapter and subject to its remedies. (Ord.
2015-08-03, 8-12-2015)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth
below:
APPLICABLE TRIBUNAL: Either the administrative adjudication system and/or code
hearing department established, maintained, and/or jointly utilized by the
village of Lake Villa or the circuit court of the 19th judicial circuit, Lake
County, Illinois, as to matters within the respective jurisdiction of such
tribunal.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the village of Lake Villa police
department.
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which three (3) or more of the
nuisance activities listed below have occurred during any one hundred twenty
(120) day period, as a result of any three (3) separate events, the respective
facts of which have been independently investigated by any law enforcement
agency:
   A.   "Disorderly conduct" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-
1;
   B.   "Unlawful use of weapons" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1 et seq.;
   C.   "Mob action" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1;
   D.   "Discharge of firearm" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 and 1.5;
   E.   "Gambling" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1;
   F.   "Possession, manufacture or delivery of controlled substances" as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.;
   G.   "Public indecency" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
30;
   H.   "Assault or battery or any related offense" as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.;
   I.   "Prostitution" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 et
seq.;
   J.   "Criminal damage to property" as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq.;
   K.   "Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis" as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/3 et seq.;
   L.   "Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol" as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16 et seq.
   M.   "Domestic violence" means "abuse" as defined in section 103 of the
Illinois domestic violence act of 1986 by a "family or household member" as
defined in section 103 of the Illinois domestic violence act of 1986.
OWNER: Any person, entity, firm or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. Owner includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The person, persons, entity or entities which hold record legal title
to a property.
   B.   A mortgagee of a property in whom is vested:
      1.   All or part of the legal title to the property, or
      2.   All or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the present
use and enjoyment of the premises; or
   C.   Any tenant or other occupant who has the right or ability to control
what occurs on the property; or
   D.   The beneficiary(ies) of a land trust which holds record legal title to
a property.
PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce in, to fail to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership, limited liability
company, or corporation capable of owning or using property in the village.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land, which is affixed, incidental or
pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises, room, house,
building or structure or separate part or portion thereof, whether permitted or
not.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY(IES): Any person or persons in actual or constructive
possession and/or control of a property, including, but not limited to, an
owner of a property, occupant of a property, and/or an owner's agent.
SEXUAL VIOLENCE: Any act of sexual assault, sexual abuse, or stalking of an
adult or minor child, including, but not limited to, nonconsensual sexual
conduct or nonconsensual sexual penetration as defined in the civil no contact
order act and the offenses of stalking, aggravated stalking, criminal sexual
assault, aggravated criminal sexual assault, predatory criminal sexual assault
of a child, criminal sexual abuse, and aggravated criminal sexual abuse as
those offenses are described in the criminal code of 2012.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2015-08-03, 8-
12-2015)
4-2-3: FINES AND OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   Any person who is found guilty of or liable for a violation of this
Chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   Without any limitation on the foregoing, any person who is a
responsible person with respect to a chronic nuisance property shall be subject
to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each day such chronic nuisance property exists
or continues to exist without the implementation of a remedial plan approved by
the chief of police, provided, however, if one or more responsible persons have
been found guilty or liable by an applicable tribunal within the preceding
three hundred sixty five (365) days of any violation of this chapter, then, in
such event, the minimum fine shall be not less than as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   C.   In the event a property is a chronic nuisance property, the village,
through its village attorney or village prosecutor, may seek an order from an
applicable tribunal requiring all owner(s), occupant(s), and/or their
respective agent(s), guest(s) and invitees to temporarily or permanently cease
and desist from any or all use and/or occupancy of the property until adequate
and effective remedial steps have been taken by the one or more responsible
parties to ensure that the property in question will no longer be a chronic
nuisance property. (Ord. 2015-08-03, 8-12-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024)
4-2-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
The village attorney or village prosecutor may prosecute such cases or assist
in the prosecution of such cases as are filed in an applicable tribunal when
the remedies sought are within the respective jurisdictions of those
adjudicatory bodies.
The village attorney or village prosecutor may commence an action in the Lake
County circuit court in order to abate or cause the abatement of any violation
(s) of this chapter and may petition the Lake County circuit court for a
temporary restraining order and/or preliminary and/or permanent injunction(s)
to enjoin any and all responsible parties from maintaining such a chronic
nuisance property. (Ord. 2015-08-03, 8-12-2015)
4-2-5: NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE:
When the chief of police receives one or more police reports documenting the
occurrence of a nuisance activity on or within a property, the chief of police
shall independently review such reports to determine whether they describe one
or more of the nuisance activities specified in section 4-2-2 of this chapter.
Upon such findings, the chief may:
   A.   Notify the responsible party(ies) in writing that the property is at
risk of becoming a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The street address and a brief or full legal description of the
property sufficient for identification thereof;
      2.   A statement that the chief of police has information that the
property is at risk of becoming and/or may be a chronic nuisance property, with
a concise description of the nuisance activities that may exist or that have
occurred. The chief of police shall offer the responsible party(ies) an
opportunity to propose and implement a remedial course of action if the chief
of police determines that such proposed remedial course of action will more
likely than not abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation;
      3.   Demand that the responsible party(ies) contact the chief of police
within ten (10) days from the date of said notice to discuss the nuisance
activities and to determine what actions may be required to abate such nuisance
activities and mitigate such chronic nuisance property status.
      4.   For purposes of these notice provisions, the owner of the property
shall be determined to be the last taxpayer of record, or as otherwise
determined by such deed or other instrument of conveyance as recorded with the
Lake County recorder of deeds. Such notice shall be served on one or more of
the responsible party(ies) by either personal delivery or by mailing to one or
more of the responsible party(ies) by regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid.
Notice to the property owner shall be mailed to the taxpayer's mailing address
as shown on the last ascertainable tax bill.
   B.   If after complying with the notification procedures described herein
the chief of police receives a police report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within a property and determines that the
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the chief of police, or his
designee, shall:
      1.   Notify the responsible party(ies) in writing that the property has
been determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall conform to
the following:
         a.   It shall set forth the street address and a brief or full legal
description of the property sufficient for identification of the property;
         b.   It shall include a statement that the chief of police has
determined the property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to his/her findings;
         c.   It shall demand that the responsible party(ies) contact the chief
of police within ten (10) days from the date of said notice to discuss the
nuisance activities and determine what remedial course of action is necessary
to abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation;
         d.   Service of such notice shall be made upon the responsible
parties. For purposes of these notice provisions, the owner of the property
shall be determined to be the last taxpayer of record, or as otherwise
determined by such deed or other instrument of conveyance as recorded with the
Lake County recorder of deeds. Such notice shall be served on one or more of
the responsible party(ies) by either personal delivery or by mailing to one or
more of the responsible party(ies) by regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid.
Notice to the property owner shall be mailed to the taxpayer's mailing address
as shown on the last ascertainable tax bill.
         e.   If the responsible party(ies) has or have not contacted the chief
of police within the prescribed ten (10) day time frame set forth in said
notice to discuss and determine a course of action to remediate the chronic
nuisance property, the chief of police, or his designee, is and shall be
authorized to post a copy of said notice at the property;
         f.   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may
be a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this chapter.
      2.   If, after the chief of police, or his designee, has served the
aforesaid notification, but prior to the commencement of enforcement action by
the village before an applicable tribunal pursuant to this chapter, one or more
responsible parties enters into a written agreement with the chief of police
wherein such responsible party(ies) agree to pursue, within an agreed upon time
frame, a remedial course of action that both the responsible party(ies) and the
chief of police agree is more likely than not to abate the nuisance activities
giving rise to the violation, the chief of police may agree to postpone legal
proceedings for a period of not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty
(30) days. If the agreed course of action does not result in the abatement of
the nuisance activity or if no agreement concerning abatement is reached within
thirty (30) days after notice was served upon the responsible party(ies), the
chief of police shall request the village attorney or the village prosecutor to
commence enforcement action before an applicable tribunal to abate the chronic
nuisance property.
      3.   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
chief of police shall provide to the village attorney or village prosecutor
copies of such notices, as well as any other documentation which supports
enforcement action by the village.
   C.   When a responsible party responds to the chief of police as required by
this chapter, no such responsible party(ies) shall be required to waive their
right(s) against self-incrimination or any other constitutional protections.
(Ord. 2015-08-03, 8-12-2015)
4-2-6: COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; BURDEN OF PROOF:
In an action seeking the abatement of a chronic nuisance property, and/or
seeking to impose fines in any applicable tribunal, the village shall have the
burden of showing by preponderance of the evidence that the property is a
chronic nuisance property. (Ord. 2015-08-03, 8-12-2015)
4-2-7: EMERGENCY PROCEDURES FOR SECURING OF CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES:
   A.   In the event that it is determined that a property in the village is an
immediate threat to the public health, safety and welfare, the village may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for such interim relief as
determined by the circuit court to be appropriate to the circumstances. In such
an event, the village shall not be required to comply with the notification
provisions set forth in section 4-2-5 of this chapter, however, the village
will still be required to make a diligent effort to notify the responsible
party(ies) prior to any court hearing.
   B.   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction finds the property
constitutes a "chronic nuisance property" as defined in section 4-2-2 of this
chapter, the court may order such remedies as provided by this chapter and/or
such other remedies as are available at law or in equity.
   C.   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction authorizes the
village to physically secure a property against use or occupancy in the event
the owner and/or other responsible party fails to do so within the time
specified by the court, the village shall secure the property in question as
quickly as reasonably possible. In the event that the village is authorized to
secure the property, all costs incurred by the village to effect the securing
thereof shall be accounted for and assessed and recorded as a lien against the
property, and each of the responsible parties with respect to such property
shall be jointly and severally liable for and obligated to pay all such costs.
   D.   Any person(s) who is or are responsible for payment of the cost
incurred by the village for the securing of a chronic nuisance property shall
be personally liable for the payment thereof to the village, and the
responsible parties with respect to such property shall be jointly and
severally liable for same. (Ord. 2015-08-03, 8-12-2015)
4-2-8: DISCRETIONARY ACTION:
The provisions of this chapter are designed and intended to give discretion to
the chief of police, the village attorney, the village prosecutor, and other
village officers, employees, and/or agents, and are intended to provide tools
and mechanisms for the village to abate or to cause the abatement of chronic
nuisance properties and to help preserve the peace and order of its
neighborhoods and to protect the public health, safety and welfare. For these
reasons, the following provisions, consistent with the reservation of
discretion shall apply:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall create or shall be construed as creating
any rights to any private person to require action to be taken by any elected
or appointed official, employee or agent of the village.
   B.   Nothing herein is intended to give any party(ies) whose ownership,
possession, and/or tenancy of any property is disrupted by any action taken
pursuant to this chapter any claim against the village or its elected or
appointed officers, officials, employees, and agents relative to any loss of
use, occupancy, possession, and/or control of such property. (Ord. 2015-08-03,
8-12-2015)
4-2-9: EXEMPT CONDUCT:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, this chapter does not
apply to and shall not be interpreted or construed in such a manner so as to
penalize any tenant(s) or any landlord(s) based upon:
   A.   Contact made with police or other emergency services, if: 1) the
contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond to domestic violence or
sexual violence; 2) the intervention or emergency assistance was needed to
respond to or prevent domestic violence or sexual violence; or 3) the contact
was made by, on behalf of, or otherwise concerns an individual with a
disability and the purpose of the contact was related to that individual's
disability;
   B.   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic violence or
sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest occurring in the
dwelling unit or on the premises; or
   C.   Any criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring in a
dwelling unit or on the premises that is directly related to domestic violence
or sexual violence, engaged in by a tenant, member of a tenant's household,
guest, or other party, and against a tenant, household member, guest, or other
party; or
   D.   The reporting of any emergency situation involving neither criminal
activity nor any local ordinance violation(s).
   E.   None of those activities listed in subsection A, B, C, or D of this
section shall constitute or be construed as nuisance activities. (Ord. 2015-08-
03, 8-12-2015)
CHAPTER 3
OUTDOOR BURNING REGULATED
SECTION:
4-3-1: Burning Prohibited
4-3-2: Wood Burning Regulated
4-3-1: BURNING PROHIBITED:
The outdoor burning of leaves, refuse, garbage, yard waste, or other waste
materials is prohibited. (Ord. 2008-07-02, 7-9-2008)
4-3-2: WOOD BURNING REGULATED:
Wood may be burned in a burning pit or other suitable device subject to the
following:
   A.   There shall be no burning on any public road or within ten feet (10')
of any structure or within thirty feet (30') of any lake, wetland, or
conservation area.
   B.   Each fire must be attended to by a competent person until the fire is
extinguished.
   C.   An extinguishing source, such as a functioning garden hose, must be
available at the site of the fire.
   D.   The fire shall be extinguished immediately if requested by an employee
of the village who has determined that a hazard exists due to the atmospheric
conditions, excessive smoke, high flames, or otherwise.
   E.   The person burning is responsible to ensure that the fire does not
become a nuisance. (Ord. 2001-3-3, 3-28-2001)
CHAPTER 4
DUMPING IN LAKES PROHIBITED
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Depositing Property Into Water Prohibited
4-4-3: Reserved
4-4-4: Restitution; Mandatory Fine(s)
4-4-5: Remedies Cumulative
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
PERSON: Any individual, association, corporation, partnership, or any other
legal entity.
PROPERTY: All types of personal property, including, but not limited to,
debris, garbage, refuse, motor vehicles, watercraft, or abandoned property.
(Ord. 92-6-7, 6-24-1992)
4-4-2: DEPOSITING PROPERTY INTO WATER PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any lake, pond,
stream, river, or any other navigable water, any property.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of property to allow or permit any
such property to be deposited in any lake, pond, stream, river, or any other
navigable water. (Ord. 92-6-7, 6-24-1992)
4-4-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
4-4-4: RESTITUTION; MANDATORY FINE(S):
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter, in addition to
paying to the Village the mandatory fine(s) as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, shall make restitution to the village for all
reasonable costs incurred by it in removing, disposing, or storage of the
property, and including any attorney fees incurred by the village. (Ord. 92-6-
7, 6-24-1992; amd. Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
4-4-5: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4-4-4 of this chapter, the village
may institute any appropriate actions in law or equity. (Ord. 92-6-7, 6-24-
1992; amd. Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
CHAPTER 5
WATERFOWL BLIND REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 2022-02-01, 2-8-2022)
CHAPTER 6
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT AND SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Stormwater Management Regulations; Adoption Of Lake County Watershed
Development Ordinance
4-6-2: Adoption Of Site Development Regulations
4-6-1: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS; ADOPTION OF LAKE COUNTY WATERSHED
DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE:
The Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the
“Watershed Development Ordinance” or as the “LCWDO”), as most recently amended
by the County of Lake on July 11, 2023, is hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set out herein and shall be and is in full force and effect within the
Village of Lake Villa, with the exception of Section 1201 “Fines”, which
Section 1201 is not adopted. Such Ordinance is found in its own compilation on
file in the Village Clerk’s Office, and a copy of said Ordinance has been on
file in the Village Clerk’s Office for a period of not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the effective date hereof. Fines applicable to the LCWDO as
adopted by this Section
4-6-1 shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines and Other Amounts Payable to the
Village", of the Lake Villa Village Code, as amended from time to time. (Ord.
2015-12-02, 12-9-2015; amd. Ord. 2021-01-01, 1-18-2021; Ord. 2023-08-02, 8-21-
2023; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
4-6-2: ADOPTION OF SITE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS:
The site development regulations are hereby adopted by reference by the village
of Lake Villa, and to the extent that the site development regulations hereby
adopted are inconsistent with the Lake County watershed development ordinance
as adopted in section 4-6-1 of this chapter, said site development regulations
shall govern and prevail, except where the Lake County watershed development
ordinance mandates more restrictive provisions, in which case the Lake County
watershed development ordinance shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 2005-09-02, 9-
28-2005)
CHAPTER 7
AERATORS 1
SECTION:
4-7-1: Purpose
4-7-2: Aerators Required
4-7-3: Responsible Parties
4-7-4: Type Of Equipment
4-7-5: Exceptions
4-7-6: Compliance
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 11-2-4G11 of this code.
4-7-1: PURPOSE:
The village has determined that aerators should be installed in ponds and other
bodies of water to oxygenate the water and thereby prevent the buildup of
noxious weeds and algae, and to inhibit the breeding of mosquito larvae. (Ord.
96-7-1, 7-10-1996)
4-7-2: AERATORS REQUIRED:
Aerators shall be installed in every pond or other body of water which is wet
or designed to be wet on a year round basis in normal weather, excluding for
example drought conditions. This requirement shall apply to all existing bodies
of water, excluding Deep Lake and Cedar Lake, for which aerators are
unnecessary. (Ord. 96-7-1, 7-10-1996)
4-7-3: RESPONSIBLE PARTIES:
The owner of the pond, or the land upon which it is situated, shall be
responsible to install and properly maintain the aerator so that it is always
functional and operating. (Ord. 96-7-1, 7-10-1996)
4-7-4: TYPE OF EQUIPMENT:
The type of aerator and associated apparatuses shall be subject to the prior
review and approval of the village engineer, who shall approve equipment and
installations, which are suitable for the given body of water, and will
function as intended. (Ord. 96-7-1, 7-10-1996)
4-7-5: EXCEPTIONS:
No aerator shall be required if the village engineer determines that an aerator
is not practical or would not accomplish the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 96-
7-1, 7-10-1996)
4-7-6: COMPLIANCE:
For all existing such bodies of water, the aerators shall be installed and
fully operational within six (6) months of adoption of this chapter. For all
new bodies of water, which are created subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter, the aerator shall be installed at the time of construction of the pond
or other water storing device, such as detention or retention pond areas. (Ord.
96-7-1, 7-10-1996)
CHAPTER 8
RESTRICTIONS ON THE OUTSIDE USE OF WATER
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Restrictions On The Outside Use Of Water Enumerated
4-8-3: Special Permit
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
It is necessary and prudent to institute restrictions on the nonessential
outside use of water to conserve water as a valuable resource. (Ord. 2011-05-
01, 5-11-2011)
4-8-2: RESTRICTIONS ON THE OUTSIDE USE OF WATER ENUMERATED:
Lawn and garden sprinkling and all other nonessential outside use of water
shall only be permitted as follows:
   A.   Even numbered property addresses: Even numbered calendar days.
   B.   Odd numbered property addresses: Odd numbered calendar days.
   C.   All such watering and all other nonessential outside use of water is
prohibited between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M.
   D.   All such watering and all other nonessential outside use of water is
prohibited on Sundays.
   E.   The foregoing restrictions on lawn and garden sprinkling and all other
nonessential outside use of water shall be applicable at a minimum from May 15
through September 15 of each year, and for such additional periods as may be
established by the village pursuant to subsection F of this section from time
to time.
   F.   Effective upon a specific written determination by the village board,
when conditions warrant further and more restrictive conservation measures than
the foregoing, all nonessential water use may be prohibited by the village
board. Notice of such restrictions may be provided by a press release to the
local newspapers, by posting on the village website and at the village hall,
and by temporary signage at the main entrances to the village. (Ord. 2011-05-
01, 5-11-2011)
   G.   New and replacement sprinkler systems shall be equipped with a
WaterSense labeled irrigation controller and shall be in compliance with
section 2.5(g) of the Illinois plumbing license law 1 . (Ord. 2015-09-01, 9-9-
2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 320.
4-8-3: SPECIAL PERMIT:
Upon good cause shown, a special permit may be issued for a period of fourteen
(14) consecutive days to allow watering on both even and odd numbered days.
These special permits may be obtained from the village hall during normal
business hours. The outside use of water on Sundays is still prohibited despite
the issuance of a special permit and all such outside use of water shall, in
any event, conform with subsection 4-8-2C of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-05-01, 5-
11-2011)
CHAPTER 9
PROHIBITED NOISES
SECTION:
4-9-1: Purpose
4-9-2: Construction Activities
4-9-3: Exemption
4-9-4: Special Permit
4-9-1: PURPOSE:
Construction activities generate considerable noise which detracts from the
overall quality of life and intrudes upon the peace and well being of the
general public. The intent of this chapter is to limit such activities to
reasonable hours. (Ord. 2004-07-03, 7-28-2004)
4-9-2: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
It shall be unlawful to operate construction equipment such as, but not limited
to, hand tools, such as hammers or saws, power tools, backhoes, bulldozers,
jackhammers, compressors, and the like, before:
   A.   Seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
weekdays.
   B.   Eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on
Saturdays.
   C.   Nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on Sundays.
In the event that the construction activities are subject to a preconstruction
meeting such as for a subdivision development, then in the event of a conflict
between the terms of this chapter and those of the preconstruction meeting, the
hours of permitted construction activities established in the preconstruction
meeting shall govern. (Ord. 2004-07-03, 7-28-2004)
4-9-3: EXEMPTION:
This chapter does not apply to the activities of the village of Lake Villa
employees while performing their respective duties. (Ord. 2004-07-03, 7-28-
2004)
4-9-4: SPECIAL PERMIT:
Upon good cause shown in cases of necessity in the interest of public health
and/or safety, the building commissioner may issue a special permit, which
permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three (3) days or less while
the necessity continues, to operate construction equipment at times other than
as permitted in sections 4-9-2 and 4-9-3 of this chapter, and which permit may
be renewed for periods of three (3) days or less while the necessity continues.
(Ord. 2004-07-03, 7-28-2004)
CHAPTER 10
LAKE VILLA SMOKE FREE ILLINOIS ACT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Short Title
4-10-2: Findings
4-10-3: Definitions
4-10-4: Smoking In Public Places, Places Of Employment, And In Other Locations
Prohibited
4-10-5: Posting Of Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays
4-10-6: Designation Of Other Nonsmoking Areas
4-10-7: Exemptions
4-10-8: Enforcement And Penalties
4-10-9: Discrimination Prohibited
4-10-10: Effective Date
4-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA SMOKE
FREE ILLINOIS REGULATIONS. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
4-10-2: FINDINGS:
The corporate authorities of the village of Lake Villa find that tobacco smoke
is harmful and dangerous to human beings and a hazard to public health. The
corporate authorities of the village additionally find that the vapor, odor
and/or other byproducts produced by the use, by any means, of any alternative
nicotine product in public places and places of employment is a nuisance which
may annoy, disturb, injure and/or endanger the comfort, repose, convenience,
health, peace and/or safety of others in the presence or vicinity of a person
using an alternative nicotine product. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
4-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section unless different meanings are plainly
indicated by the context:
ACT: The "smoke free Illinois act", 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq.
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" excludes
cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco products as these terms
are defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 675/1 et seq., and any product
approved by the United States food and drug administration as a nontobacco
product for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than ten percent
(10%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the premises.
"Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges,
adult entertainment facilities, and cabarets.
BUSINESS: Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
association, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, or other
business entity, whether formed for profit or nonprofit purposes.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of public health.
EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for direct
or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or her
services for a nonprofit entity.
EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with: a) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, or
b) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies
and corridors. For the purposes of this chapter, an "enclosed area" shall also
include any open air dining area, and the area within or under any tent,
canopy, trailer, and/or any other partially enclosed or partially covered
permanent or temporary structure.
ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley, or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational, or
other events.
GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES: Gaming equipment/supplies as defined in the
Illinois gaming board rules of the Illinois administrative code.
GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of gaming
and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. "Healthcare facility" includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
OPEN AIR DINING AREA: A seating area open to the air that is accessory to a
restaurant, hotel, cafeteria, club or other enclosed public place engaged in
purveying commercial food or beverage service where members of the public,
members or guests are invited to sit and receive food or beverage service.
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any workplace or area under the control of a public or
private employer within the village that employees are required to enter,
leave, or pass through during the course of employment, including, but not
limited to, entrances and exits to places of employment, including a minimum
distance, as set forth in section 70 of the act, of fifteen feet (15') from
entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited; trailers, offices, and work areas;
restrooms; conference rooms and classrooms; breakrooms and cafeterias; and
other common areas. A private residence or home based business, unless used to
provide licensed childcare, foster care, adult care, or other similar social
service care on the premises, is not a "place of employment", nor are enclosed
laboratories, not open to the public, in an accredited university or government
facility where the activity of smoking is exclusively conducted for the purpose
of medical or scientific health related research. For the purposes of this
chapter, any open air dining area, and the area within or under any tent,
canopy, trailer, and/or any other partially enclosed or partially covered
permanent or temporary structure shall be considered a "place of employment".
PRIVATE CLUB: A not for profit association that: a) has been in active and
continuous existence for at least three (3) years prior to January 1, 2008,
whether incorporated or not, b) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building
or portion thereof used exclusively for club purposes at all times, c) is
operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political,
benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain, and d) only sells
alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. For purposes of this
definition, "private club" means an organization that is managed by a board of
directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting, has established bylaws, a constitution, or both, to govern its
activities, and has been granted an exemption from the payment of federal
income tax as a club under 26 USC 501.
PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation, a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a private residence.
PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any building, vehicle, or open air dining area,
used by and open to the public, regardless of whether the building, open air
dining area, or vehicle is owned in whole or in part by private persons or
entities, the state of Illinois, or any other public entity and regardless of
whether a fee is charged for admission, including a minimum distance, as set
forth in section 70 of the act, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits,
windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where
smoking is prohibited. A "public place" does not include a private residence
unless the private residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster
care, or other similar social service care on the premises. A "public place"
includes, but is not limited to, hospitals, restaurants, retail stores,
offices, commercial establishments, elevators, indoor theaters, libraries,
museums, concert halls, public conveyances, educational facilities, nursing
homes, auditoriums, enclosed or partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting
rooms, schools, exhibition halls, convention facilities, polling places,
private clubs, gaming facilities, tents, trailers, all government owned
vehicles and facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or
operated by the village or by the state or state subcontract, healthcare
facilities or clinics, enclosed shopping centers, retail service
establishments, financial institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas,
public hearing facilities, public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars,
taverns, bowling alleys, skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel,
resort, inn, lodge, bed and breakfast, or other similar public accommodation
that are rented to guests, but excludes private residences. For the purposes of
this chapter, any open air dining area, and the area within or under any tent,
canopy, trailer, and/or any other partially enclosed or partially covered
permanent or temporary structure shall be considered a "public place".
RESTAURANT:
   A.   An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee shops,
cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias, that
gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, and
   B.   A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, other smoking devices for burning tobacco
and related smoking accessories, and alternative nicotine products and in which
the sale of other products is merely incidental. "Retail tobacco store"
includes an enclosed workplace that manufactures, imports, or distributes
tobacco, tobacco products or alternative nicotine products, when, as a
necessary and integral part of the process of making, manufacturing, importing,
or distributing a tobacco product or alternative nicotine product for the
eventual retail sale of that tobacco, tobacco product, or alternative nicotine
product, tobacco is heated, burned, or smoked, or a lighted tobacco product or
alternative nicotine product is tested, provided that the involved business
entity: a) maintains a specially designated area or areas within the workplace
for the purpose of the heating, burning, smoking, or lighting activities, and
does not create a facility that permits smoking throughout; b) satisfies the
eighty percent (80%) requirement related to gross sales; and c) delivers
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products to consumers, retail
establishments, or other wholesale establishments as part of its business.
"Retail tobacco store" does not include a tobacco or alternative nicotine
product department or section of a larger commercial establishment or any
establishment with any type of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
SMOKE OR SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling or exhaling of any
kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs, smoking herb(s)
(as defined in section 6-2-14 of this code) or any other lighted smoking
equipment, or the use, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving,
inhaling, snorting, sniffing or by any other means, of alternative nicotine
product.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-
11-2015)
4-10-4: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES, PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT, AND IN OTHER LOCATIONS
PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of employment
or within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public place or place of
employment.
   B.   No person may smoke in any vehicle located in the village owned,
leased, or operated by the village, by the state, or by any political
subdivision of the state.
   C.   Smoking is prohibited in indoor public places and workplaces unless
specifically exempted by this chapter.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or to carry any form of
lighted cigar, cigarettes, pipe or tobacco or to use, whether by chewing,
smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing or by any other
means, alternative nicotine product, in any building on village property.
   E.   An owner shall reasonably assure that smoking is prohibited by signage
specified in section 4-10-6 of this chapter within a minimum distance of
fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation
intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited under this
chapter so as to ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through
entrances, exits, open windows, or other means.
   F.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is
prohibited in any portion of the living quarters, including, but not limited
to, sleeping rooms, dining areas, restrooms, laundry areas, lobbies, and
hallways, of a building used in whole or in part as a student dormitory that is
owned and operated or otherwise utilized by a public or private institution of
higher education. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
4-10-5: POSTING OF SIGNS; REMOVAL OF ASHTRAYS:
   A.   "No Smoking Or Use Of Alternative Nicotine Products" signs or the
international "No Smoking" symbol, consisting of a pictorial representation of
a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it, shall be
clearly and conspicuously posted in each public place and place of employment
where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or
other person in control of that place.
   B.   Each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   C.   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person having control
of the area. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
4-10-6: DESIGNATION OF OTHER NONSMOKING AREAS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any employer, owner,
occupant, lessee, operator, manager, or other person in control of any public
place or place of employment may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place
or place of employment, including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is
also prohibited, provided that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall
conspicuously post signs prohibiting smoking in the manner described in
subsections 4-10-5A and B of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
4-10-7: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, smoking is allowed in the
following areas:
   A.   Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a childcare,
adult daycare, or healthcare facility or any other home based business open to
the public.
   B.   Retail tobacco stores as defined in section 10 of the act in operation
prior to January 1, 2008. The retail tobacco store shall annually file with the
department and with the village by January 31 an affidavit stating the
percentage of its gross income during the prior calendar year that was derived
from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes,
other smoking devices for smoking tobacco and related smoking accessories, or
alternative nicotine products. Any retail tobacco store that begins operation
after January 1, 2008, may only qualify for an exemption if located in a
freestanding structure occupied solely by the business and smoke from the
business does not migrate into any enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
   C.   Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking
is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the nursing
home.
   D.   Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms.
   E.   Enclosed laboratories that are excluded from the definition of "place
of employment".
   F.   Common smoking rooms in long term care facilities operated under the
authority of the Illinois department of veterans' affairs that are accessible
only to residents who are smokers and have requested in writing to have access
to the common smoking room where smoking is permitted and the smoke shall not
infiltrate other areas of the long term care facility. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-
2015)
4-10-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A person, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity who
violates this chapter shall be subject to the mandatory fines as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Each day that a violation occurs or continues
shall be a separate violation and subject to a separate fine.
   B.   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited under this
chapter shall be subject to the mandatory fines as specified from time to time
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and each day a violation occurs or continues shall
be considered a separate offense.
   C.   A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment that violates this chapter shall be subject to the
mandatory fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, provided, however, such fines as provided by this
section shall not apply to any person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls
a public place or place of employment and who violates, more than twice during
any one year period, any provision of this chapter which is substantially the
same as any of the provisions of the act, in which event, the provisions of the
act, including, but not limited to, the penalties therein, shall be applicable
and control.
   D.   The village may institute, in a circuit court, an action to enjoin
violations of this chapter and of the act. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015; amd.
Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
4-10-9: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
No individual may be discriminated against in any manner because of the
exercise of any rights afforded by this chapter. (Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
4-10-10: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The prohibitions stated in this chapter shall be effective on March 15, 2015.
All premises affected by this chapter that are in existence on the approval
date hereof shall cause signs to be posted, pursuant to the requirements of
this chapter, in a conspicuous location within the public place or place of
employment on or before March 1, 2015. All premises affected by this chapter
that are established subsequent to the effective date hereof shall cause such
signs to be posted as a condition to obtaining applicable business licensing.
(Ord. 2015-03-01, 3-11-2015)
CHAPTER 11
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL SPILLER PAYS REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: Enforcement Official
4-11-3: Waiver By Board
4-11-4: Prohibited Acts
4-11-5: Response Authority
4-11-6: Liability For Costs
4-11-7: Defenses
4-11-8: Costs And Penalties
4-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
COSTS: All expenses incurred by the village for any removal or remedial action.
FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline,
including, but not limited to, any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned
treatment works, well, pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage
container, tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft. Also,
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed, or otherwise come to be located.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, substance or mixture of materials or
substances which are toxic, flammable, corrosive, explosive, carcinogenic or
radioactive including, but not limited to, any substance or material which is
designated a hazardous material pursuant to the "hazardous materials
transportation act" (49 USC section 5101 et seq.) in a quantity and form which
may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or
the environment when improperly released, treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
MUTUAL AID: Any action taken by a public entity pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement.
PERSON: Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation, association,
trust, estate, joint venture or other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent, or assign.
RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, disposing, and/or otherwise
depositing of a hazardous material into or on any land, air, water, well,
stream, sewer or pipe so that such hazardous material or any constituent
thereof may enter the environment.
REMEDIAL ACTION: Any action taken in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent and/or
minimize the release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate or
cause a substantial present or potential hazard to the public health and/or
welfare, to any property, and/or to the environment. The term includes, but is
not limited to, such actions at the location of the release such as storage,
confinement, perimeter protection using dikes, trenches, or ditches, clay
cover, neutralization, cleanup of released hazardous materials or contaminated
materials, recycling or reuse, diversion, destruction, segregation of reactive
wastes, repair or replacement of leaking containers, collection of leachate and
runoff, on site treatment or incineration, provision of alternate water
supplies, and any monitoring reasonably required by the village and/or any
other applicable governmental agency to assure that such actions protect the
public health and/or welfare, to any property, and/or to the environment.
REMOVAL: The cleanup and/or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, such actions as may be necessary, required, and/or appropriate to
monitor, assess, and/or evaluate the release of, and/or threat of release of,
any hazardous materials, the disposal of removed hazardous material, or the
taking of such action as may be necessary, required, and/or appropriate to
prevent, minimize, and/or mitigate damage to the public health and/or welfare,
to any property, and/or to the environment. The term includes, but is not
limited to, security fencing, provision of alternative water supplies, and
temporary evacuation of threatened humans and/or other living things.
RESPONSE: Any removal or remedial action.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois, an Illinois
municipal corporation. (Ord. 2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The director of public works, or his designee, is hereby designated as the
enforcement official authorized to implement the necessary process for
enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-3: WAIVER BY BOARD:
The board of trustees of the village, or its designee, shall be and is hereby
authorized to waive any or all fees or fines, or both, due under this chapter
by established written policy or on an individual basis, when it determines the
fairness and equity that warrant such waiver. (Ord. 2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall cause, threaten, or allow the release of any hazardous material
(s) into the environment of, or in the vicinity of, the village unless such
release is in accordance with an appropriate permit granted by the Illinois
environmental protection agency or such other state or federal agency having
primary jurisdiction over the release and such release is in such place and
manner as will not create a substantial present or potential hazard to the
public health and/or welfare, to any property and/or to the environment. (Ord.
2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-5: RESPONSE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The director of public works, or his designee, shall be and is hereby
authorized to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous
materials within the village or affecting the village in any way, including,
but not limited to, the village's public water supply, wells, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, and/or sewage treatment works located within or serving the
village, and he shall enlist the aid of the applicable fire protection district
relative thereto. This authority includes, but is not limited to, taking any
necessary or appropriate remedial action and/or removal.
   B.   The director of public works, or his designee, shall be and is hereby
authorized to respond to any release or threatened release of hazardous
materials as described above. The director of public works, or his designee,
shall report any release or threatened release of hazardous materials to all
appropriate federal, state, county and local public health, safety and
emergency agencies within twenty four (24) hours of any substantial release of
hazardous materials. The director of public works, or his designee, shall
relinquish his response authority at such time, if any, as the federal, state,
county, or local public health, safety or emergency agency having primary
jurisdiction over the release or threatened release has assumed responsibility
for response to the release or threatened release.
   C.   The director of public works, or his designee, during such time as
response authority pursuant to this chapter is vested in him, shall be and is
hereby authorized to utilize the necessary village personnel and equipment for
such response, and he may, in his sole discretion, take such remedial or
removal action as he may deem necessary or appropriate to respond to the
release or threatened release of hazardous material.
   D.   All responding personnel shall cooperate with and operate under the
direction of the director of public works, or his designee, until such time as
the person exercising such response authority has determined that the response
is complete or responsibility for response is assumed by the federal, state,
county, or local public health, safety or emergency agency having primary
jurisdiction over the release or threatened release.
   E.   The person exercising response authority under this chapter shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state, county, or local public
health, safety or emergency agencies involved in response to the release or
threatened release of hazardous materials. (Ord. 2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-6: LIABILITY FOR COSTS:
Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, and subject only to the
defenses set forth in this chapter, the following persons shall be jointly and
severally liable for all costs of removal and remedial action incurred by the
village as a result of a release or threatened release of a hazardous material:
   A.   The owner and/or operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of a hazardous material.
   B.   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of a hazardous material, owned or operated the facility or vessel
used for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of any such hazardous material.
   C.   Any person who by contract, agreement, or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous material owned, controlled or possessed by such person at a facility
owned or operated by another party or entity from which facility there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of such hazardous material.
   D.   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous material for transport
to disposal, storage or treatment facilities or sites from which there is a
release or a substantial threat of release of such hazardous material. (Ord.
2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-7: DEFENSES:
There shall be no liability under this chapter for a person otherwise liable
who can establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the release or
substantial threat of release of a hazardous material and the damages resulting
therefrom were caused solely by:
   A.   An act of nature over which the person had no control;
   B.   An act of war;
   C.   Any combination of the foregoing. (Ord. 2009-01-03, 1-14-2009)
4-11-8: COSTS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who is found to be liable for the release or threatened
release of a hazardous material who fails without sufficient cause to pay for
or provide for the lawful and appropriate removal or remedial action upon and
in accordance with a notice and request of the village to do so, or in
accordance with any order of any court having jurisdiction over the matter,
shall be liable to the village for any costs incurred by the village as a
result of such failure to provide or take such removal or remedial action,
together with the cost of any removal or remedial action taken by the village
in accordance with this chapter, and all attorney fees and related legal costs
incurred in connection with the collection of such costs of any removal and/or
remedial action, and the collection of unpaid fines.
   B.   In addition, any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to mandatory fines as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   C.   Minimum charges for removal or remedial action when rendered by the
village, or any agency assisting the village, or any contractor hired by the
village for this purpose, shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2009-01-03, 1-14-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 12
PHOSPHORUS FREE FERTILIZER
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definitions
4-12-2: Prohibition
4-12-3: Impervious Surfaces, Drainageways, And Buffer Zones
4-12-4: Exemptions
4-12-5: Signs
4-12-6: Penalty
4-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the followings words and phrases shall have the
meaning ascribed to them:
COMMERCIAL APPLICATOR: A person who is engaged in the business of applying
fertilizer for hire.
FERTILIZER: A substance containing nitrogen, phosphorus, potash or any other
recognized plant nutrient element or compound which is used primarily for its
plant nutrient content. Fertilizer shall not include the following natural
products: agricultural limestone, sea solids, and unprocessed manure, which
have not been manipulated so as to alter or change them chemically, burnt or
hydrated lime, and sewage sludge produced by any sanitary treatment facility,
and shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
NONCOMMERCIAL APPLICATOR: A person who applies fertilizer but who is not a
commercial applicator. (Ord. 2015-04-05, 4-22-2015)
4-12-2: PROHIBITION:
No commercial or noncommercial applicator, including homeowners and renters,
shall apply to any area within the village any fertilizer, whether liquid,
granular, or solid, which contains any amount of phosphorus or other compound
containing phosphorus, such as phosphate, except:
   A.   The naturally occurring phosphorus in unadulterated natural or organic
fertilizing products such as yard waste or compost; or
   B.   As otherwise provided for in section 4-12-4 of this chapter. (Ord.
2015-04-05, 4-22-2015)
4-12-3: IMPERVIOUS SURFACES, DRAINAGEWAYS, AND BUFFER ZONES:
No commercial or noncommercial applicator shall apply any fertilizer to:
   A.   Impervious surfaces;
   B.   Areas within drainage ditches;
   C.   Waterways or within twenty feet (20') thereof; and
   D.   Any delineated wetland and any area established as a natural buffer
zone therefor. (Ord. 2015-04-05, 4-22-2015)
4-12-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following are exemptions to the prohibitions described in this chapter:
   A.   The prohibition against the use of fertilizer containing phosphorus
shall not apply to turf and lawn areas for which soil tests confirm the ambient
phosphorus content is below median phosphorus levels for typical area soils.
The scope of this exemption shall only be for such volume or concentration of
phosphorus necessary to permit such turf or lawn area to contain phosphorus
levels equal to the median phosphorus levels for typical area soils. Phosphorus
applied as fertilizer pursuant to this exemption shall be integrated into the
soil where it is immobilized and generally protected from loss by stormwater
runoff.
   B.   The prohibition against the use of fertilizer containing phosphorus
shall not apply to flowerbeds and vegetable gardens and establishing newly
seeded, sodded, sprigged or plugged turf/lawn areas.
   C.   The prohibition contained in this chapter shall not apply to any
farming or agricultural business, provided the use of fertilizers is related to
the growth of a product or maintenance of growing fields. Appropriate steps
shall be taken to integrate the fertilizer into the soil where it is
immobilized and generally protected from loss by stormwater runoff. This
exemption shall not apply to the standard lawn area of said farm or
agricultural business. (Ord. 2015-04-05, 4-22-2015)
4-12-5: SIGNS:
Any person, firm, corporation or partnership which sells any fertilizer at
retail in the village shall be required to post a sign or signs at the point of
sale for fertilizer containing the following legend:
THE VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA PROHIBITS THE APPLICATION OF FERTILIZER CONTAINING
PHOSPHORUS TO ANY IMPERVIOUS SURFACE, DRAINAGE WAY, WETLAND, OR WETLAND BUFFER
ZONE, OR TO ANY LAWN OR TURF AREA EXCEPT FOR THE USE IN THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
NEWLY SEEDED, SODDED, SPRIGGED OR PLUGGED LAWN OR TURF AREAS.
Such sign or signs shall be clearly readable and shall be conspicuously posted
on each aisle containing fertilizer. (Ord. 2015-04-05, 4-22-2015)
4-12-6: PENALTY:
In addition to any other sanctions and remedies provided by statute, any person
who shall be convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to mandatory fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2015-04-05, 4-22-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Openings Or Excavations
5-1-2: Railroad Crossings, Facilities
5-1-3: Barbed Wire Fences
5-1-4: Tree Removal; Permit
5-1-4.1: Trees And Woodlands Protection
5-1-5: Street Sign Or Signal Interference Or Removal
5-1-6: Gasoline Apparatus On Streets
5-1-7: Handbills On Public Ways
5-1-7.1: Public Right Of Way Protected
5-1-8: Telephone Lines; Connections Restricted
5-1-9: Street And Sidewalk Damage Prohibited
5-1-9.1: Damage Prohibited
5-1-9.2: Responsibility For Repair
5-1-10: Illinois Routes 83 And 132
5-1-11: Depositing Substances On Streets
5-1-1: OPENINGS OR EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person other than a
public utility holding a franchise heretofore granted by the village or a
contractor performing work under a construction contract with the village, to
make any opening or excavation in any street, parkway, sidewalk or public place
or to tunnel under any street or public place in the village without first
having obtained a permit as herein required.
   B.   Application: Application for such permit shall be made to the village
clerk and shall state therein the location of the intended opening, excavation
or tunnel, the size thereof, the purpose thereof, and the person doing the
actual excavating and the name of the person or firm for whom the work is being
done.
   C.   Deposit And Fee Required: The deposit and non-refundable fee for such
permits for openings or excavations or tunnels in or under improved streets
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The fee for permits for openings, excavations or
tunnels in or under unimproved or gravel streets shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. From such deposits the village shall retain as a
non-refundable permit fee such fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code and hold the balance of the deposit as a guarantee
for the restoration of such openings or excavations to their original
condition. Such deposits shall be held for a period of six (6) months from the
date of such deposit. If within that time satisfactory proof is presented to
the village board that such street, sidewalk or parkway has been restored to
its original condition, then the balance remaining of such deposit shall be
refunded to the person making such deposit. In the event that no restoration of
such opening is made as herein provided, after the expiration of six (6) months
as aforesaid, no refund of such deposit shall be made and the money so
deposited shall be used by the village to restore or resurface such openings
and to compensate the village for such default.
   D.   Barricades: Any person making any excavation, opening or tunnel shall
do so according to the terms and conditions of the application and permit
authorizing the work to be done and according to the ordinances of the village
and subject to the inspection and approval by such officers as may be
designated by the village. Sufficient and proper placards or signs and lights
shall be maintained to protect persons and vehicles from injury by or because
of the opening or excavation being made.
   E.   Restoration Of Surface: Promptly upon the completion of the work for
which the opening, excavation or tunnel was made, the person making such
opening, excavation or tunnel shall restore said street or public place to its
original condition.
   Openings or excavations in public parkway areas shall be backfilled using
suitable excavated subsoil materials with proper allowance for shrinkage and
which will develop a compacted stability satisfactory to the village engineer.
Backfill shall be carefully placed and compacted using six inch (6") layers of
selected excavated material which is free of large stones, clods of turf, roots
or rubble, or using gravel, crushed stone, or other granular material. The
backfilled surface shall be left smooth and sufficiently crowned to allow for
settlement.
   Wherever the excavation is in streets, parking areas, driveways, or other
paved areas, the opening shall be backfilled to within twelve inches (12") of
the surface with gravel, crushed stone, controlled low strength material
(CLSM), or other approved granular backfill material, jetted for compaction.
   The top twelve inches (12") of the openings in streets, parking areas,
driveways, or other paved areas shall be filled with approved road gravel or
crushed stone as a temporary pavement, and shall be maintained level with
adjoining pavement surface until the original type of pavement, or equal, is
replaced.
   All public parkway areas which are removed or damaged during the work shall
be provided with a prepared topsoil of not less than four inches (4") of black
dirt raked smooth and level without any stones or debris. Prior to seeding,
standard commercial grade fertilizer shall be applied and raked uniformly into
the topsoil at a rate of ten (10) pounds per one thousand (1,000) square feet.
Grass seed shall be planted only during the months of March through May and
August through October. Grass seed mixtures shall be proportioned by weight and
consist of sixty percent (60%) Kentucky bluegrass, twenty five percent (25%)
perennial ryegrass, ten percent (10%) redtop or creeping red fescue, and five
percent (5%) white Dutch clover. Seeding shall be applied at a uniform rate of
not less than two and five-tenths (2.5) pounds per one thousand (1,000) square
feet. Areas which require protection from erosion shall be mulched with straw
or burlap, or may be sodded.
   All street and driveway pavements including surfaces, bases and stabilized
subbases, curbs and gutters, and sidewalks shall be reconstructed as required
for the complete replacement of existing pavement surfaces which were removed
or which were damaged or destroyed by the excavation work. This work shall not
be started until the trenches have been properly backfilled and thoroughly
compacted. The work shall be constructed in accordance with applicable
provisions of and the most recent amendments to the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction", adopted by the state of Illinois, department
of transportation.
   Where the original surface was gravel, crushed stone, or cinder materials,
the temporary pavement shall be reshaped to proper grade and condition equal to
or better than the original surface in accordance with the state
specifications.
   Replacement of all other pavement surfaces shall be in accordance with the
following paragraphs. Grade, cross section and thickness shall match the
existing adjoining pavement, except that thickness shall not be less than
specified hereinafter. The temporary gravel pavement shall be prepared as a
base or subbase for the new pavement in accordance with the state
specifications.
   Brick pavements shall be replaced with a minimum of six inches (6") of
portland cement concrete surface pavement.
   Portland cement concrete base or surface pavement shall be replaced with a
minimum of six inches (6") of portland cement concrete. The concrete pavement
shall have steel reinforcing bars equal in size and spacing to the
reinforcement of the original pavement; the minimum size steel reinforcing
shall be six inch by six inch (6" x 6") #6 welded wire fabric. This work shall
be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the state specifications.
   Bituminous aggregate mixture base or surface pavement shall be replaced with
a minimum thickness of six inches (6") of bituminous aggregate mixture and
shall be constructed in accordance with state specifications.
   Bituminous surface pavement shall be replaced with a minimum thickness of
six and one-half inches (61/2") of hot mix asphalt consisting of a minimum of
two inches (2") hot mix asphalt surface course and a minimum of four and one-
half inches (41/2") hot mix asphalt binder course, constructed in accordance
with the requirements of the state specifications.
   Portland cement concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed to match the
original type, thickness, grade and cross section, and shall have a prepared
subbase of not less than four inches (4") of compacted sand or fine gravel.
This work shall be completed in accordance with the requirements of the state
specifications.
   Portland cement concrete sidewalks and crosswalks shall have a minimum
thickness of four inches (4") and shall be constructed on a prepared subbase of
not less than two inches (2") of compacted sand or fine gravel. Portland cement
concrete sidewalks through driveways shall have a minimum thickness of six
inches (6") and shall be constructed on a prepared subbase of not less than two
inches (2") of compacted sand or fine gravel. This work shall be completed in
accordance with the requirements of the state specifications.
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 275, 7-6-1955; amd. 1983 Code; Ord. 86-5-1,
5-15-1986; Ord. 88-9-1, 9-14-1988; Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015; Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
5-1-2: RAILROAD CROSSINGS, FACILITIES:
   A.   Gates At Crossings: All railroad companies owning, leasing or operating
a steam railroad in or through the village shall construct, operate and
maintain at their own expense, at all points where the track or tracks of said
railroad shall cross any street, in said village, railway gates which shall
provide proper protection against injury to person or property at such
crossings, which gates shall be so maintained on each side of said tracks at
the respective crossings, and shall open and close and at all times shall be
operated simultaneously. It is hereby made the duty of such railroad company
operating, leasing or controlling said steam railroad to comply with the
provisions of this subsection, and whoever shall fail or refuse to maintain or
operate such gates, as herein provided, shall be subject to the penalty
prescribed in this section.
   B.   Whistles: No railroad company in charge of any locomotive engine, shall
cause or allow the whistle of any such locomotive engine to be sounded within
the limits of the village except for the necessary brake signals and such as
may be rendered absolutely necessary by imminent danger to prevent injury to
personal property other than their own, and property in their own possession.
   C.   Bells To Be Rung: A bell at each crossing shall be rung continually
while said locomotive engine is in motion and approaching and within eighty
(80) rods of any street crossing the track upon which said locomotive engine is
so running.
   D.   Cars In Motion: No person shall get upon or off or attempt to get upon
or off any locomotive engine, tender, car or train of cars while the same, or
either of them, is in motion, without having first obtained from the person in
charge thereof express permission so to do.
   E.   Disorderly Conduct: No person, persons or idlers shall lounge or loaf
or use any disorderly language or do any shouting, scuffling, or any improper
or disorderly conduct in and around any railroad depot of any railroad company
in the village. (Ord. 59, 5-7-1909; amd. Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
5-1-3: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
   A.   Barbed Wire Restricted: From and after the passage and publication
hereof, there shall not be built along the line of any sidewalk, or along the
line of any street where there is a public footpath which is generally used by
pedestrians, within the corporate limits of the village any barbed wire fence
or any fence composed wholly or in part of barbed wire, except that there may
be a barbed wire stretching along the top of any such fence where such barbed
wire will be at least three feet (3') above the surface of such walk or
footpath, which said fence, when so built will be nearer such walk or footpath
than four feet (4') on either side.
   B.   Maintenance Required: The owner or owners of any property, along the
street line of which there shall be at the time of the passage and publication
of this section any barbed wire fence, or any fence composed wholly or in part
of barbed wire, except as above stated, or any part of which shall be nearer
than four feet (4') to either side of any sidewalk or public path running along
either side of any street within the village shall be required to keep the same
in perfect repair; and in an upright or perpendicular position and firmly
braced and shall be required to keep all wires composing said fence tightly
drawn and firmly attached to said fence and shall not allow any loose ends of
wire to dangle from the said fence. (Ord. 45, 6-4-1907)
5-1-4: TREE REMOVAL; PERMIT:
Whoever shall cut, fell, box, bore, destroy or carry away any tree or sapling,
standing, growing upon, along or adjacent to any highway, street or alley
within the corporate limits of the village without having first obtained a
permit from the village shall be subject to mandatory fines as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and each tree removed in violation hereof shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2014-06-03, 6-25-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-12-
03, 12-2-2024)
5-1-4.1: TREES AND WOODLANDS PROTECTION:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this section is, through
the preservation, protection, planting, and proper maintenance of trees and
woodlands within the village and on land to be annexed to the village, to:
      1.   Prevent the unnecessary destruction of trees in the village;
      2.   Aid in the stabilization of soil by the prevention of erosion and
sedimentation;
      3.   Aid in the control of drainage and restoration of denuded soil
subsequent to construction or grading;
      4.   Reduce stormwater runoff and the costs associated therewith and
replenish groundwater supplies;
      5.   Provide a buffer and screen to protect against the adverse impacts
associated with noise;
      6.   Provide moderation of temperature extremes;
      7.   Aid in the removal of carbon dioxide and generation of oxygen in the
atmosphere and purify air and offset car emission pollution;
      8.   Provide a habitat and feed source for birds and other wildlife
which, in turn, assists in the control of pests;
      9.   Protect and increase property values;
      10.   Conserve and enhance the village's unique physical and aesthetic
environment;
      11.   Prevent the existence of trees which pose a threat, danger or
nuisance to the public or to the property in the village; and
      12.   Generally protect and enhance the quality of life and the general
welfare of the village and its citizens.
   B.   General Scope: Except as specifically exempted in this section, the
provisions of this section shall apply generally and uniformly to property
within the village. The provisions of this section shall apply for any and all
activity within the corporate limits of the village involving the proposed or
possible removal of live trees having a breast diameter of six inches (6") or
more diameter breast height (dbh). Diameter at breast height shall be
considered to represent a height of four and one-half feet (41/2') above the
ground. This section shall also apply to all areas seeking annexation to the
village.
   C.   Definitions: Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
meanings of terms used in this section shall be as follows:
   BUILDING ENVELOPE: See definition of Building Pad.
   BUILDING PAD: An area of a lot enclosed by the front, rear, and side yard
setback lines. Such areas are defined on approved village of Lake Villa plats
of subdivision.
   CALIPER: As measured at a point twelve inches (12") above the ground.
   CLOSED CANOPY: A wooded area that allows little or no light into the forest
floor.
   CONDITION: Life expectancy of trees. State whether good, poor, dying, or
dead.
   CONSERVANCY: Any area designated as "conservancy" or equivalent on a plat of
subdivision or plat of dedication approved by the village and recorded.
   CUTTING: Felling or removal of a tree or any procedure the result of which
is to cause the death or substantial destruction of a tree. "Cutting" does not
include normal pruning, trimming or maintenance topping of trees.
   DESIGNEE: A person appointed by the building and/or planning department to
inspect the subject property for compliance or violation of this section.
   DESTRUCTION: Any human or animal activity which destroys or shortens the
life expectancy of a tree.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any proposed material change in the use of or character of land
from an undeveloped or natural state.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (dbh) The diameter of the trunk of the tree measured
in inches at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above ground level. This
point of measurement is used for mature and established trees.
   DRIP LINE: The outside perimeter of the tree's canopy extended to the ground
to represent the preservation area.
   FOREST: A dense growth of trees and underbrush covering a large tract of
land, or a significant portion of a large tract of land.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT: One whose profession is the arrangement of land for
human use and enjoyment, involving the design and placement of structures,
vehicular and/or pedestrian circulation, plantings, and their relationships
with adjacent areas and who has professional and educational qualifications in
plant physiology.
   REDEVELOPMENT: Any increased use or restructuring of present use of land
that was already considered developed.
   SITE: That tract, parcel or lot of land for which a tree removal permit is
sought.
   STRUCTURE: Any structure, building, patio, pool, deck, fence, shed, gazebo,
etc., that would require a building permit to construct.
   TIMBERLAND: Land covered with forest and especially with marketable timber.
   TREE: Any self-supporting woody plant together with its root system, growing
upon the earth usually with one trunk, or a multistemmed trunk system,
supporting a definitely formed crown.
   TREE AND WOODLAND PLAN: A plat indicating the woodlands and trees,
indicating the existing trees proposed to be preserved, the existing trees
proposed to be removed, and/or new trees proposed to be planted. This may be
included in a landscape plan.
   TREE CANOPY: The area of space that live tree leaves and branches occupy.
   TREE COVERAGE: The total area of space a woodland canopy occupies.
   TREE REMOVAL PERMIT: The permit required by this section to remove any tree
protected and regulated under the provisions of this section.
   TREE SURVEY: A survey that shows the number, diameter, location, condition
and species cultivars of all live trees on the subject property prior to any
regulated tree destruction activity.
   VIABLE: A tree which is capable of sustaining its own life process, unaided
by man.
   WOODLANDS: A tract or parcel of land covered wholly or in substantial part
with trees and related environs.
   YARD AREA: An open space on the same lot or parcel with a building, said
space being unoccupied with the exception of trees and other vegetation and/or
accessory structures.
   D.   Inside The Village: Trees and woodlands on vacant lots or lots already
developed, built upon, and occupied.
      1.   Tree Permit Required: For removal or relocating of trees six inches
(6") or larger dbh or groves under the definition of "woodlands" with trees
three inches (3") or larger dbh, the conditions under which a permit may be
issued include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Removal due to interference with the location or relocation of a
parking lot, driveway, sidewalk, patio, deck, garden, fruit trees, swimming
pool, and other structures.
         b.   Removal due to interference with the safe performance of planned,
contemplated or existing underground or overhead utilities including water and
sanitary and storm sewer lines, gas pipes, and telephone and electric poles and
wires.
         c.   Removal in no conservancy areas if the trees in a yard have
matured to a point where they are blocking reasonable light and air reaching
the yard and patio areas of the house or housing unit.
         d.   Removal due to damage or injury to the extent that the tree is
likely to die or become diseased.
         e.   Removal will avoid or alleviate an economic or health hardship of
another nature on the property.
         f.   Removal is consistent with good forestry practice.
         g.   Removal will enhance a tree preservation area and the health of
the remaining trees.
      2.   Exceptions: The permit requirements set forth in subsection D1 of
this section shall not apply to:
         a.   Emergencies involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms,
floods, freezes or other natural disasters.
         b.   Trees which have become, or immediately threaten to become, a
hazard to persons, property or other vegetation and require immediate removal
or destruction. The building department may grant immediate verbal
authorization by on site inspection confirmed later with the issuance of a tree
removal permit for record purposes.
         c.   Diseased, dead or dying trees as confirmed by the building
department and when necessary by a designated plantsman or other vegetation
professional.
         d.   All active orchards and state or village approved tree nurseries
shall be exempt from the terms and provisions of this section, but only in
relation to those trees which are planted and growing for the sale or intended
sale to the general public in the ordinary course of business or for some
public purpose.
         e.   Removal of invasive, nonnative species, and village or state
designated nuisance trees shall not require a tree removal permit.
   E.   Prior Destruction Or Removal: If during the course of the review of an
application for an annexation to or a development within the village, it shall
be determined that mature trees, or mature or young woodlands, have been cut or
relocated from the site prior to the application for an annexation or a
development, the net result of which would be to frustrate or interfere with
the application of a site capacity analysis required under the zoning
ordinance, then, in that event, the village shall treat the annexation or
development as if the trees were still existing on the site, and require all
appropriate site capacity calculations to be so applied. In addition, as a
condition of approval of the annexation or development, the village shall
require that the developer replenish the site with like species which aggregate
to the full sum of the diameter of the trees which have been removed.
   F.   Permit Required; Tree Removal Application Form And Fees: Removal,
relocation or replacement of trees is prohibited unless a permit therefor has
been first obtained from the village. Tree removal permits for the removal,
relocation, or replacement of trees shall be obtained by submitting to the
village an application on a form prescribed by the village. There shall be no
fee for a tree removal permit.
      1.   Application Procedure: For tree removals in conjunction with new
development on lots with or without designated building pad or building areas:
         a.   Tree removal permit application shall include:
            (1)   A sketch, photo or other description showing the location of
the tree or trees to be removed.
            (2)   Information on the size, types, and number of trees to be
removed.
            (3)   Reasons for removing the trees.
            (4)   Any reports or studies, if any, indicating that the trees
should be removed.
            (5)   Such other relevant information as the building department
shall reasonably require.
   G.   Application Review And Approval: Upon receipt of a completed
application, the village shall review said application. Such review may include
site inspections and referral of the application for comment and
recommendations to other appropriate village officials. A tree removal permit
shall be granted only if:
      1.   In the opinion of the village, the criteria in subsection D1 of this
section are met.
      2.   There is a tree replacement plan conforming with the village of Lake
Villa zoning ordinance, as amended, article eight, section V, G, table V-E6,
except that this requirement shall not apply to any existing lot which is one
acre or less in size and which has been both platted and improved with a
structure on or before March 15, 2006.
      3.   Where more than five (5) trees (which qualify for replacement) are
to be removed, adequate security for the replacement thereof shall be posted
with the village in the form of an irrevocable, unconditional standby letter of
credit in the amount of one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the value of the
replacement stock and the costs of installation.
   H.   Permit Time And Expiration: The following sets forth the time
limitations and expiration time of a tree removal permit:
      1.   Tree removal permits shall expire and become null and void if work
authorized by such tree removal permit is not commenced within six (6) months
from the date of the tree removal permit or if such work, when commenced, is
suspended or abandoned at any time for a period of ninety (90) days.
      2.   A tree removal permit extension may be granted when deemed
necessary.
   I.   Maintenance And Tree And Woodland Preservation And Protection:
      1.   Planting Standards: Any tree required to be planted as a condition
of a permit or approval pursuant to this section shall conform to the "American
Standard For Nursery Stock" as approved by the American Standards Institute,
Inc. (or equivalent nationally recognized standard, as may be chosen by the
village).
      2.   Preservation Techniques: The technique to be used to preserve trees
and woodlands during construction shall be stated in the tree/woodland plan.
The preservation technique employed shall be approved by the building
department and shall be sufficient to preserve the life of the trees and/or
woodland, and shall include:
         a.   Leave woodland intact wherever possible.
         b.   Place buildings adjacent to the woodland rather than within the
woodland.
         c.   Fencing outside the drip line of the tree(s) or woodland to be
saved before any grading or construction activities. Do not cut, fill, or
compact soil within the tree(s) drip line area.
         d.   During construction, all reasonable steps necessary to prevent
the destruction or damaging of trees shall be taken and unless authorized by
the issuance of a tree removal permit, no excess soil, additional fill,
equipment, liquids or construction debris shall be placed within the drip line
of any tree that is required to be preserved in its present location unless the
addition of excess soil fill or excavation is required in order to comply with
the watershed development ordinance.
         e.   The "Lake County Soil And Water Conservation District Opinion"
includes the article "Preserving Trees During Construction". The article shall
be referenced for construction guidelines.
         f.   No attachments or wires other than those of a protective or
nondamaging nature shall be attached to trees during construction.
         g.   Unless otherwise authorized by a tree removal permit, no soil is
to be removed from within the root zone of any tree that is to remain at its
original location.
         h.   Retain natural conditions of woodland floor or simulate natural
conditions with ground cover.
         i.   The drainage of tree(s) or woodland(s) shall not be impeded.
         j.   Where applicable all removal operations and resulting conditions
of the land shall comply with the watershed development ordinance.
   J.   Large Properties And Development Sites: The provision of this section
shall apply generally and uniformly to all development, redevelopment or
expansion of multi-family, commercial, industrial or agricultural properties or
uses of any size and residential property greater than one acre or subdivision
of residential property resulting in the creation of two (2) or more lots
within the village limits, as well as properties newly annexed or undergoing
annexation.
      1.   Application Procedure: Any person requesting the destruction or
relocation of trees or woodland shall submit the following information to the
village:
         a.   An application containing the name, address and telephone number
of the applicant as well as the owner(s) of the property.
         b.   Location of the subject property including address or legal
description and the size of the subject property acreage.
      2.   Tree Survey And Landscape Plan: The applicant shall submit a tree
survey and landscape plan developed by a qualified landscape architect drawn at
a scale not smaller than one inch to fifty feet (1":50').
Reduced copies may be required by the building department or village board. The
survey and plan shall comply with the following:
         a.   Show the acreage of woodland area, the location of woodland(s)
and trees three inches (3") in diameter or larger at breast height (dbh) of
desirable native species (using both common and botanical names). Show dead,
dying and trees requiring major pruning six inches (6") in diameter or larger
dbh.
         b.   Show all existing trees six inches (6") in diameter or larger
measured at breast height (dbh), all natural features, existing and proposed
public and private rights of way and easements, proposed landscaping, including
such details as the species, varieties, size and quantity of plant materials
and indication shown on the plat of those that are proposed to be removed.
         c.   Have attached a written statement from the landscape architect
describing the environmental effect of the landscaping on the development and
neighboring, adjacent properties. Include setting goals of the plan in the
statement, reasons for selections of specific plant materials, and time
required for the plan to produce the desired environmental effect. Include how
the plan will deal with any special environmental conditions, including
wetlands, lakes, ponds, rivers or streams (flowing or intermittent), existing
on site or to be created by the development.
      3.   Approval Of Landscape Plan: The landscape plan shall be subject to
approval by the building department and in recommended cases, by the village
board.
      4.   Tree Preservation: The developer or owner(s) shall retain and
protect wherever possible, woodlands and trees in areas of construction,
including existing public and private street rights of way and easements. The
preservation techniques under subsection I2 of this section shall be followed.
      5.   Tree And Woodland Compensation/Replacement:
         a.   The developer or owner(s) shall replace any trees six inches (6")
in diameter or greater dbh and/or a significant number of less caliper trees
that are to be removed. The developer or owner(s) shall replace these trees
including planting, according to the following size schedule:
TABLE V-E6
STANDARDS FOR REPLACEMENT OF WOODLANDS
 
dbh Of Canopy Trees Removed Replacement Canopy Trees
                            Amount Caliper
36 inch or larger           5      4 inch
24 inch - 35 inch           3      4 inch
16 inch - 23 inch           3      3 inch
9 inch - 15 inch            2      3 inch
3 inch - 8 inch             1      3 inch
 
         b.   Replacement trees shall be of a high quality, disease free,
regionally grown trees with a single straight trunk with no scars. Plants
installed to satisfy the requirements of this section shall meet or exceed the
plant quality standards of the most recent edition of "American Standard For
Nursery Stock", published by the American Association Of Nurserymen. Plants
shall be nursery grown and balled and burlapped.
   K.   Enforcement: This section shall be a minimum standard and shall be
enforced by the building and police departments.
   L.   Penalties, Permit Revocation: Any tree removal permit issued under this
section shall be revoked or suspended if the permit holder violates the terms
of the permit or any other provisions of this section. Any violation of this
section shall be subject to mandatory fines as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Each day that a violation hereof exists shall be
considered a separate offense, and each tree removed in violation hereof shall
be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 2014-06-03, 6-25-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-
12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-1-5: STREET SIGN OR SIGNAL INTERFERENCE OR REMOVAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, deface, remove, obliterate,
destroy or in any manner interfere with any street or road direction or warning
sign or signal within the corporate limits of the village whether such sign or
signal is erected and maintained by the village, by the state, or by any other
person by permission of the said village or its board of trustees. (Ord. 137,
10-6-1925)
Whoever shall violate this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 137, 10-6-1925; amd. 1983 Code)
5-1-6: GASOLINE APPARATUS ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating any oil or gasoline
station or business in the village to locate or maintain any gasoline pump or
other apparatus connected with said oil or gasoline station or business on
either the traveled portion of any street in the village, or any of the
parkways of said streets.
Any person constructing or maintaining any gasoline pump or apparatus contrary
to the provisions herein is hereby declared guilty of the offense of harboring
and maintaining a nuisance in the village, and upon conviction, shall be fined
in a sum not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and each day that the said nuisance shall be allowed to exist after
ten (10) days' notice in writing to move same shall be served on the person
owning or operating same, shall be regarded as a separate offense. (Ord. 146,
12-5-1927)
5-1-7: HANDBILLS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Distribution Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute advertising matter of any kind on any public way or other public
place of the village, or to distribute, hand out or scatter on any public way
any handbills or dodgers or any other loose sheets of advertising matter which
would litter the public ways if allowed to drop thereon.
   B.   Posting Prohibited: No person shall post, stick, stamp, tack, paint or
otherwise fix, or cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard,
bill, card, poster, advertisement, or other device calculated to attract the
attention of the public, to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb or curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any public way, lamppost, electric
light, telephone, telegraph or other pole, hydrant, shade tree or tree trunk,
or on any public bridge or viaduct, except such as may be required by the laws
of the United States, the state or the village.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 78-5-3, 5-24-1978)
5-1-7.1: PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY PROTECTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any object, such as, but not
limited to, a newspaper, thing, stone, garbage, offal, cigar or cigarette butt,
boulder, landscape timber, or any other thing, on the public right of way
unless a permit has been issued therefor by the village.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed to occur for each day a violation occurs or continues. "Person", for the
purposes of this section, shall mean and include any individual, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other legal entity. (Ord. 97-7-4, 7-30-1997;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-1-8: TELEPHONE LINES; CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or become attached to in any
manner whatsoever any automatic telephone apparatus to any telephone lines
being used by the village, and any person who violates this provision shall be
fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. Each day that said apparatus remains on the
telephone line of the village shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 72-
4-1, 4-17-1972; amd. 1983 Code)
5-1-9: STREET AND SIDEWALK DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
5-1-9.1: DAMAGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage any public facility, including,
but not limited to, any public street, sidewalk, parkway, or tunnel. It shall
further be unlawful to place, dump, or deposit any object or thing, such as,
but not limited to, leaves, grass clippings, refuse, or landscape waste, into
any ditch or culvert which is located within the public right of way of any
public street. (Ord. 98-5-3, 5-27-1998)
5-1-9.2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR:
Any person who damages any public facility, including, but not limited to, any
public street, sidewalk, parkway, ditch, culvert, or tunnel shall promptly
repair the same to the satisfaction of the village engineer. In the event that
said person fails or refuses to perform the necessary repairs promptly, the
village may, at its election, perform the necessary repairs and the person
causing the damage shall be responsible for all costs incurred by the village
in performing such repairs. Whether or not the village elects to perform the
repairs, the person causing the damage shall be fully responsible for the cost
of the repairs. (Ord. 98-5-3, 5-27-1998)
5-1-10: ILLINOIS ROUTES 83 AND 132:
Relative to the state rights of way for Milwaukee Avenue, Illinois Route 83,
from the north corporate limits to the south corporate limits of the village of
Lake Villa, and for Grand Avenue, Illinois Route 132, from the east corporate
limits to the west corporate limits of the village of Lake Villa, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or any other legal entity, to:
   A.   Discharge, or cause, permit, or allow any discharge of any sanitary
sewage or industrial wastewater into any storm sewers or drainage facilities
which are constructed as part of said rights of way as described above; or
   B.   Install, place, maintain, and/or construct, or cause, permit, or allow
the installation, placement, maintenance, and/or construction of any
encroachment upon or within any portion of said rights of way as described
above. (Ord. 2010-10-01, 10-6-2010)
5-1-11: DEPOSITING SUBSTANCES ON STREETS:
Any soil; aggregate; mud; dirt; dust; plowed, blown, and/or shoveled snow;
debris and/or any other substance deposited on any street, road, or highway by
any vehicle shall be immediately and substantially removed by the owner and/or
operator of the vehicle depositing such soil; aggregate; mud; dirt; dust;
plowed, blown, and/or shoveled snow; debris and/or any other substance and/or
by the building permittee, and/or owner of the site or property within the
village where such soil; aggregate; mud; dirt; dust; plowed, blown, and/or
shoveled snow; debris and/or any other substance originates, and such parties
shall be jointly and severally liable and culpable for such violation if such
immediate and substantial removal of any soil, aggregate, mud, dirt, dust,
plowed snow, debris and/or any other substance does not occur. Any person
violating this section shall be subject to mandatory fines as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2009-02-02, 2-11-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definition
5-2-2: Rules And Regulations, Prohibited Conduct
5-2-3: Hours Of Operation
5-2-4: Damage To Property
5-2-5: Dangerous Deposits
5-2-6: Dumping Garbage, Refuse And Trash
5-2-7: Animals In Parks
5-2-8: Fires
5-2-9: Alcoholic Beverages
5-2-10: Motorized Vehicles
5-2-11: Boat Mooring
5-2-12: Motorboat Regulations
5-2-13: Frank M. Loffredo Park; Skateboard Park Regulations
5-2-14: Lehmann Park
5-2-15: Glacier Park
5-2-16: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITION:
PARK: Open space property owned by the village, whether or not designated as a
village park. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS, PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: Each person who visits any village park shall
abide by the provisions of this code, all other applicable ordinances of the
village, and all posted rules and regulations.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any persons in or on any public
park, walk, pier, beach or other public place of amusement in the village, to
act in a loud or boisterous manner, to use profane or indecent language, to
annoy person or persons lawfully there, to conduct any gambling game or games,
to deface any bench, rail, walk, pier, plank, board, boat, car, sod, flower,
grass, tree, shrub, bush, fence, post, or other property, public or otherwise
that may be there or to make use of the same or to move or interfere in any way
with the same except with the permission of the village board or of the private
owner as the case may be.
   C.   Attire: No person shall appear on any beach or pier or in any park of
this village except in conventional bathing costume of their sex, or in their
regular conventional dress nor shall any person or persons disrobe or change
clothes in any park, or on any walk, pier or beach of this village except in an
especially provided bathhouse. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
All village parks shall be open from sunrise to sunset daily. Village parks are
closed from sunset to sunrise. Use of any village park after sunset and before
sunrise for special events shall be approved by the village board. (Ord. 2015-
03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-4: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
No person shall perform or attempt to perform any of the following acts on any
park property in the village: wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper
with or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces,
railings, parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether
temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or
other structures or equipment, facilities or park property including shrubs,
trees and other landscaping or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or
personal. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-5: DANGEROUS DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in or on any park, beach, or pier of this
village to break, or cause to be broken, glass of any kind or to leave the same
in any such place that may be broken or to leave or cause to be left any tin,
tin can, paper, paper bag, cloth, lunchbox, food or any other noxious, harmful
or unsightly object except in especially provided receptacles for that purpose.
(Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-6: DUMPING GARBAGE, REFUSE AND TRASH:
No person shall perform or attempt to perform any of the following acts on any
park in the village: bring in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken
glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, or refuse or
other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters thereof, but
shall be placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided. Where
receptacles are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried
away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly
disposed of elsewhere. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-7: ANIMALS IN PARKS:
No animals shall be allowed in any park except that dogs or cats which are on a
leash and under control may be permitted to traverse the walking paths within
any village park, but shall not be permitted on any beach or in any bathing
area. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-8: FIRES:
No person shall perform or attempt to perform any of the following acts in any
park in the village: light or make use of any fire in any village park, except
at such places as may be designated by posted rules for that purpose, in which
case, such fire shall be continuously under the care and direction of a
competent person from the time it is kindled until it is completely
extinguished. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-9: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person shall perform or attempt to perform any of the following acts in any
park in the village: carry, possess, consume, sell, or give away any beverage
or container containing alcoholic liquor, beer or wine. This section shall not
apply to Lehmann Park or at special events on other park property when
authorized by a village license or permit. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-10: MOTORIZED VEHICLES:
   A.   No vehicles subject to registration in Illinois as motor vehicles shall
be operated on park property outside of parking lots or other designated areas.
   B.   The use of minibikes, ATVs, motor driven scooters, snowmobiles or other
off road motorized vehicles on park property is prohibited.
   C.   Emergency and/or police vehicles, vehicles operated by any public
utility, and vehicles used for park maintenance are exempt from this section.
   D.   There shall be no parking of vehicles within any village park when it
is closed, except when approved as part of a special event by the village
board. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-11: BOAT MOORING:
All boats, canoes or other watercraft that are conducted in an orderly manner
may tie up to and use the public pier for a temporary landing and as a mooring
place for a period of not more than four (4) hours at a time, provided however,
that a space of four (4) hours must elapse before such boat again ties up.
(Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-12: MOTORBOAT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Speed: No person shall operate a motorboat on waters within the
jurisdiction of the village at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper
considering the use of the waters for bathing, boating, fishing and hunting, or
in such a manner as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any
person.
   B.   Mufflers, Noise: Every motorboat operated on such waters shall be
equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation, so as
to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke, and no person shall
use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device on such motorboat.
   C.   Engine Capability: No boat propelled by an internal combustion engine
shall be operated on any of the waters within the jurisdiction of the village
except in a manner consistent with the safety of persons or property. No
motorboat propelled by an internal combustion engine, which has a
manufacturer's rating in excess of ten (10) horsepower, shall be operated on
any portion of Cedar Lake or any other body of water, excluding Deep Lake,
within the jurisdiction of the village. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-13: FRANK M. LOFFREDO PARK; SKATEBOARD PARK REGULATIONS:
The use of the Skateboard Park at Frank M. Loffredo Park shall be limited to
persons utilizing skateboards, bicycles, rollerblades, or roller skates. The
village may post rules and regulations at the park facility, which may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015)
5-2-14: LEHMANN PARK:
   A.   Park Established: That certain real estate commonly known as Lehmann
Park is hereby declared to be a village public park pursuant to the authority
granted to the village by Illinois law, the use of which by the public shall be
subject to the regulations provided herein.
   B.   Limited Parking: Due to the limited capacity of the Lehmann Park
Parking Lot, the use of such parking lot shall be restricted to vehicles
belonging to residents of the village, which shall be determined based upon the
registration address of a vehicle and/or based upon display of a current
village resident vehicle sticker on such vehicle.
   C.   Motor Vehicles: No motor vehicle shall be driven onto, upon, or parked
on the beach. No parking shall be permitted on the east side of the road to the
lake. Parking shall be limited to designated areas, and appropriate signs
giving notice thereof shall be so posted.
   D.   Contagious Diseases Restricted: No person suffering from a contagious
disease or ailment shall go into the water.
   E.   Boat Regulations:
      1.   No boat or other watercraft with a motor greater than ten (10)
horsepower shall be launched from within Lehmann Park into Cedar Lake.
      2.   Prior to launching any motorized boat or other motorized watercraft
from Lehmann Park, the exterior of such boat or watercraft shall be washed by
high pressure jet cleaning, and any of its engines, cooling systems, live
wells, and bilges shall be flushed with water over one hundred ten degrees
Fahrenheit (110°F), in order to prevent and/or reduce the spread of invasive
species of fish, algae, mussels, and other organisms.
      3.   There shall be no overnight storage of boats, trailers, or other
watercraft within Lehmann Park.
      4.   Prior to launching any motorized boat or other motorized watercraft
from Lehmann Park, a nonresident shall be required to pay for and have in his
possession a current, valid daily nonresident boat launch pass for the date of
such launch, the fee for which daily nonresident boat launch pass shall be as
specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code. Village
residents shall be permitted to launch a motorized boat or other motorized
watercraft without a boat launch pass. No such fee shall apply to non-
motorized boats or other non-motorized watercraft, including but not limited to
canoes, kayaks and paddleboards.
      5.   Each such daily nonresident boat launch pass shall permit only one
boat or motorized watercraft to be launched from Lehmann Park.
      6.   All boats or other watercraft, including but not limited to any non-
motorized watercraft, launched at Lehmann Park shall be removed from Lehmann
Park prior to sunset on the day of the launch.
      7.   The Village Treasurer may, from time to time, limit the number of
nonresident daily boat launch passes issued for any given day, or for any
specific period of time as the Village Board determines to be necessary to the
circumstances.
   F.   Glass Objects Prohibited: Glass bottles, glass containers, and all
other glass objects (excluding eyewear), are prohibited within the beach area
of Lehmann Park.
   G.   Swimming; Supervision Of Children: No swimming alone shall be
permitted. Children under twelve (12) years of age must be accompanied by an
adult at all times.
(Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024; Ord. 2025-03-01,
3-18-2025)
5-2-15: GLACIER PARK:
   A.   Park Established: That certain real estate commonly known as Glacier
Park is hereby declared to be a village public park pursuant to the authority
granted to the village by Illinois law, the use of which by the public is
subject to the regulations provided herein.
   B.   Limited Parking: Due to the limited capacity of the Glacier Park
Parking Lot, the use of such parking lot shall be restricted to vehicles
belonging to residents of the village, which shall be determined based upon the
registration address of a vehicle or based upon display of a current village
resident vehicle sticker on such vehicle.
   C.   Glass Objects And Alcohol Prohibited: Glass bottles, glass containers,
and all other glass objects (excluding eyewear) are prohibited within the park.
No alcoholic beverages shall be permitted within the park.
   D.   Contagious Diseases Restriction: No person suffering from a contagious
disease or ailment shall go into the water.
   E.   Swimming; Supervision Of Children: No swimming alone shall be
permitted. Children under twelve (12) years of age must be accompanied by an
adult at all times.
   F.   Boat Regulations:
      1.   No boat with a motor greater than ten (10) horsepower shall be
launched from within the park into Deep Lake.
      2.   Prior to launching any boat from Glacier Park, the exterior of the
boat shall be washed by high pressure jet cleaning, and any of its engines,
cooling systems, live wells, and bilges shall be flushed with water over one
hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F), in order to prevent and/or reduce the
spread of invasive species of fish, algae, mussels, and other organisms.
      3.   There shall be no overnight storage of boats or trailers within the
park.
      4.   Prior to launching any boat from Glacier Park, both residents and
nonresidents shall obtain from the village a key which shall allow access to
the boat launch on an annual basis. The annual cost for this key for residents
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. All persons having a boat launch gate key are
responsible for each gate key issued to such person(s) and are and shall be
prohibited from giving or loaning any such gate key to any other person(s).
      5.   Prior to launching a boat, any person launching a boat at Glacier
Park shall execute a boat launch agreement as established and approved from
time to time by the village.
      6.   All boats launched at Glacier Park shall be removed prior to sunset.
      7.   The village board may, from time to time, limit the number of annual
nonresident gate keys issued, as the board determines to be necessary to the
circumstances.
   G.   Motor Vehicles: No motor vehicle shall be driven onto, upon, or parked
on the beach. Parking shall be limited to designated areas, and appropriate
signs giving notice thereof shall be so posted. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-2-16: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be subject to mandatory
fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Notwithstanding such minimum fine, any citation
issued for a first offense of this chapter may be settled prior to the initial
court date in the circuit court or in the Village's Administrative Adjudication
System by the payment to the village, by cash or certified funds in settlement
thereof an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A second or subsequent offense committed by the
same person within any twelve (12) month period shall be subject to mandatory
fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, but no settlement amount shall be applicable in
such case(s). Fines and penalties through the village's administrative
adjudication system shall be as specified from time to time in section
1-18-1 of this code. (Ord. 2015-03-03, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Water System Improvements
5-3-3: Sanitary Sewer System Improvements
5-3-4: Stormwater Drainage Improvements
5-3-5: Street And Sidewalk Improvements
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-4 of this code for subdivision improvements.
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
AWWA: American Water Works Association.
BUILDING SEWER: A private sewer that conveys sewage and polluted industrial
wastes from a building to the public sanitary sewer.
CISPI: Cast Iron Soil Pipe Institute.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one open end and being permanently terminated
at the other end by a vehicle turnaround.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or any installation of site improvements.
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: The network of water mains by which a water supply is
delivered to consumers.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer registered as such in the state of Illinois.
INFILTRATION: The quantity of groundwater that leaks into a pipe through
joints, porous walls, or breaks.
MAJOR STREET: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is intended
to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
OWNER: Any person having legal and equitable title to the land sought to be
subdivided, developed or otherwise improved.
psi: Pounds per square inch of pressure.
psig: Pounds per square inch of gauge pressure.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, corporation, trust, or
any other legal entity.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of public land which affords pedestrian and
vehicle access to abutting private properties.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights of connection and use, and is operated, maintained and controlled by the
village.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage and polluted industrial wastes, and
to which stormwater, surface drainage, groundwater or unpolluted wastewater are
not intentionally admitted.
SECONDARY STREET: A street which is intended to carry traffic from minor
streets to major streets and highways, including the principal entrance streets
of residential subdivisions.
SEWAGE: A combination of the wastewater from residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional buildings together with such groundwater
infiltration and surface water inflow that may be in the sewers.
SHALL: Mandatory.
SIDEWALK: A paved walk for pedestrians in the public street right of way.
STORM SEWER: A sewer that conveys stormwater runoff and surface water drainage,
but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of precipitation which is not absorbed into the
ground and which is drained from the ground surface to a natural outlet or
watercourse.
STREET: A roadway for motor vehicles in the public right of way.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works of the village or his duly
authorized deputy or representative.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The engineer duly designated or appointed by the village
president and board of trustees, or his duly authorized deputy or
representative.
WATER MAIN: A pressure pipe through which water supply is delivered for
domestic, industrial and fire protection uses. (Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
5-3-2: WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The standard sizes of water main shall be as follows and under the
following conditions:
 
6 inch diameter  For hydrant leads only
8 inch diameter  Minor streets, cul-de-sacs and replacement of existing 6 inch
                 mains on minor streets and cul-de-sacs
                 Village owned collector streets; village owned arterials;
                 state, county, and township roads; jack and bored crossings;
12 inch diameter publicly owned easements; railroad crossings; electric
                 easements; submerged crossings; well house discharges; storage
                 and all systems that connect into the village system at 2 or
                 more points
16 inch diameter All new industrial parks
 
Any new commercial or industrial user, and any person requesting water mains
requiring sizes larger than twelve inches (12") in diameter may be required by
the village engineer to provide a hydraulic study in order to confirm the
required minimum sizing of water mains required to serve such use.
In any cases where a hydraulic study is required by the village engineer, water
mains shall be sized as determined by a hydraulic study based on anticipated
fire flow demands and pressure requirements to maintain a normal working or
static pressure in the distribution system of not less than forty (40) psi and
a minimum residual pressure of twenty (20) psi under fire flow conditions.
(Ord. 2006-01-02, 1-25-2006)
   B.   All water main extensions shall be looped to avoid dead ends and shall
extend across the entire frontage of the property to be served. (Ord. 2004-02-
03, 2-25-2004)
   C.   Village distribution water mains shall either be AWWA C900 or AWWA C905
PVC, gasketed push-on joints, or DR 11 HDPE, DIPS sizing, as a minimum. Cement
lined class 52 ductile iron pipe shall only be used for building/site piping.
Directionally drilled water mains shall either be HDPE or Certa-Lok or an
equivalent as approved in advance in writing by the village's director of
public works. All water mains shall have continuous three-sixteenths inch (3/
16") insulated stainless steel aircraft cable as tracing wire. HDPE pipe
installations shall include concrete pipe anchors at transition points. All
tracing wires shall be physically connected to every installed fire hydrant,
valve vault and valve box for conductivity and tracing. Fittings shall be of
domestic manufacture. All water main fittings shall be ductile iron rated at
two hundred fifty (250) psi minimum. Approved manufacturers are Tyler/Union.
All bends, tees, hydrants, valves, plugs and caps shall be restrained with
retainer glands in lieu of concrete thrust blocks. Approved manufacturers for
retainer glands are Meglug or Uniflange.
   D.   Water mains shall have a minimum bury of six feet (6') over all pipe
and fittings, and services. All water mains installed within village owned
right of way shall be backfilled with controlled low strength material (CLSM)
under roadways and within two feet (2') of the back of curb. Water mains
installed under village owned sidewalk shall be backfilled with CA 6.
   E.   Water mains shall be provided with resilient wedge gate valves (RWGV)
at all tees and crosses, and at not more than five hundred foot (500')
intervals in commercial districts and at not more than eight hundred foot
(800') intervals in residential and industrial districts. No brass valves shall
be used or accepted.
   F.   All RWGVs shall be of domestic manufacture and rated for two hundred
fifty (250) psi working pressure and the resilient seated disc wedge shall be
fully (100 percent) encapsulated in styrene butyl rubber (SBR). All valves
shall have mechanical joints unless they are attached directly to a fire
hydrant or are used in an aboveground application in which case that joint
shall be flanged. All RWGVs shall be Mueller A2360.
   G.   All gate valves, excluding hydrant auxiliary valves, shall be installed
inside forty eight inch (48") diameter booted precast concrete valve vault
structures with a concentric cone and a Cretex, or the equivalent exterior
rubber chimney seal as approved in advance in writing by the director of public
works. Valve vaults shall be located in paved areas, except when the location
thereof in a specific unpaved area has been approved in advance in writing by
the village's director of public works. The valve vault shall have cast iron
steps with a precast base on a six inch (6") sand bed. Manhole frames and
covers shall be Neenah R-1772, or East Jordan 1022. Covers shall be self-
sealing with the word "Water" imprinted on it. Frames will be flush with final
grade. Hydrant auxiliary valves and valves in unpaved areas shall have six inch
(6") valve boxes. Boxes must also be flush with final grade with covers marked
"Water".
   H.   Fire hydrants shall be installed at all street intersections and at
intervals of not more than three hundred feet (300') in commercial and
industrial districts and intervals of not more than four hundred feet (400') in
residential districts. An acceptable manufacturer is Mueller Super Centurion
250 with a mechanical joint or an equivalent as approved in advance in writing
by the director of public works. Each hydrant shall be provided with a six inch
(6") RWGV mounted directly to an anchoring tee. Bolts shall be Cor-ten steel.
Each hydrant shall be painted gloss red and contain a five foot (5') long,
spring mounted reinforced fiberglass hydrant whip marker. Acceptable
manufacturers are RoDon, Barco, or an equivalent as approved in advance in
writing by the director of public works. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
   I.   Domestic service connections shall be one inch (1") diameter minimum,
type K copper. Copper services larger than one inch (1") shall be mounted on a
pipe saddle. Copper connections shall be flared. Stops and curb boxes shall be
Mueller H 15000 corporation stops, Mueller H 15154 curb stops and Mueller H
10300 Minneapolis style curb box. Connections to existing water mains shall be
made forty five degrees (45°) from upper vertical axis. Services shall be
centered on the lot and away from driveways and sidewalks. Curb box alignment
shall be marked in the curb head with a chiseled or stamped "W". The box shall
be within one foot (1') inside the right of way line and the box cover shall be
flush with the final grade of the ground. Existing gate valves and curb stops
shall only be operated by personnel of the village department of public works.
Fire hydrants shall only be operated by the village personnel, the Lake Villa
fire department for emergency use, or by personnel approved by the village
department of public works director.
   J.   All new, cleaned or repaired water mains, fittings, valves and hydrants
shall be pressure tested, leakage tested and disinfected in accordance with
"Standard Specifications For Sewer And Water Main Construction In Illinois".
(Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
5-3-3: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary sewers shall be designed to carry, when flowing half full, not
less than the following domestic sewage flow rates, exclusive of sewage or
other wastewater from industrial plants, for the ultimate tributary area to be
served as determined by the village engineer.
 
Lateral sewers 300 gallons per capita per day
Main sewers    200 gallons per capita per day
 
   B.   All public sanitary sewer extensions shall extend across the entire
frontage of all abutting properties to be served unless otherwise recommended
by the village engineer and/or approved by the board of trustees.
   C.   Sanitary sewers shall not be less than eight inch (8") diameter size
pipe, and shall be installed with uniform invert slope and straight alignment
between manholes.
   D.   Building sewers shall not be less than six inch (6") diameter size pipe
installed at a minimum slope of 0.125, one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot, or not
less than four inch (4") diameter size pipe in lengths of not less than ten
feet (10') installed at a minimum invert slope of 0.25, one-fourth inch (1/4")
per foot.
   E.   Sanitary sewers shall be constructed with polyvinyl chloride plastic
gravity sewer pipe and fittings conforming to the latest revision of ASTM
specification D3034, for SDR26 with integral bell and spigot joints and
elastomeric type compression gaskets conforming to the latest revision of ASTM
specification D3212, installed in accordance with the latest revised
recommended practice of ASTM standard D2321 using either class I or class II
embedment materials for bedding, haunching and initial fill to provide adequate
side support so that the maximum deflection does not exceed five percent (5%)
of the pipe internal diameter.
   F.   Building sewers shall be constructed with polyvinyl chloride plastic
gravity sewer pipe and fittings conforming to the latest revision of ASTM
specification D3034, for SDR26 with integral bell and spigot joints and
elastomeric type compression gaskets conforming to the latest revision of ASTM
specification D3212, installed in accordance with the latest revision
recommended practice of ASTM standard D2321 using either class I or class II
embedment materials for bedding, haunching and initial fill to provide adequate
side support so that the maximum deflection does not exceed five percent (5%)
of the pipe internal diameter. (Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
   G.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the branch fitting, if such is available at a suitable location.
Manhole connections are not allowed. If the public sewer is twelve inches (12")
in diameter or less, and if no properly located branch fitting is available,
the owner shall, at his expense, install in the public sewer a branch fitting
approved by and at a location specified by the village's director of public
works. Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in diameter,
and no properly located branch fitting is available, a neat hole may be cut
into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty
five degree (45°) elbow may be used to make such connection, with the spigot
end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. A
smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made secure and watertight
by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection but
only when approved in advance in writing by the village's director of public
works.
   H.   All sanitary sewers and building sewers shall be bedded on a layer of
gravel or crushed stone conforming to the latest revision of ASTM specification
D448, to provide a minimum thickness of four inches (4") under and supporting
the full bottom quadrant of the pipe. Backfill materials shall be placed and
tamped by hand in six inch (6") layers around the pipe to a height of twelve
inches (12") over the top of pipe. All sewers and sewer services installed
within village owned right of way shall be backfilled with controlled low
strength material (CLSM) under roadways and within two feet (2') of the back of
curb. Sewers and sewer services installed under village owned sidewalk shall be
backfilled with CA 6.
   I.   All sanitary sewers and building sewer branches shall be tested for
watertightness by a low pressure air test to assure that infiltration will not
exceed two hundred (200) gallons per inch of pipe diameter per twenty four (24)
hours per mile of sewer. The contractor shall furnish all testing equipment and
personnel required for conducting the low pressure air test as directed by the
director of public works or village engineer.
      1.   Prior to low pressure air testing, the sewers shall be thoroughly
cleaned and mandrel tested and televised. Televised sewer video records shall
be provided to the village in an electronic file format.
      2.   After cleaning and dampening, all sewer pipe openings shall be
sealed with suitable airtight plugs and braces.
      3.   Wherever the sewer to be tested is submerged under groundwater, a
pipe probe shall be inserted by boring or jetting into the backfill material
adjacent to the center of the sewer pipe. Air shall be forced to flow very
slowly through the probe pipe to determine the back pressure caused by
groundwater static head. The gauge pressure of the groundwater static head
shall be added to the standard air test pressure to compensate for the back
pressure effect of groundwater static head on the low pressure air test.
      4.   The low pressure air test shall be made by slowly adding air to the
plugged sewer sections under test until the internal air pressure reaches four
(4.0) psig greater than any groundwater hydrostatic pressure. After the initial
pressurization, at least two (2) minutes shall be allowed for air temperature
to stabilize and adding only the amount of air to maintain the initial test
pressure.
      5.   After the initial air pressure temperature has been stabilized, the
air supply shall be shut off. An approved stopwatch shall be used to record the
time in seconds for the internal sewer pressure to drop from three and five-
tenths (3.5) psig to two and five-tenths (2.5) psig greater than any
groundwater hydrostatic pressure. The low pressure air test of sanitary sewers
shall be considered satisfactory if the total rate of air loss from any section
of sewer tested in its entirety does not exceed 0.0030 cubic feet of air per
minutes per square foot of internal pipe surfaces. If the low pressure air test
fails to meet these requirements, the contractor shall locate and repair, or
remove and replace the faulty sections of sewer in a manner approved by the
superintendent or village engineer, as necessary to perform a satisfactory low
pressure air test upon retesting. The use of acrylamid gel sealants as a method
of correcting leakage will not be acceptable.
   J.   Sanitary sewer manholes shall have an inside diameter of forty eight
inches (48") for all sewer sizes of eight inch (8") through twenty four inch
(24") pipe diameter, and an inside diameter of sixty inches (60") for all sewer
sizes of twenty seven inch (27") through thirty six inch (36") pipe diameter.
Manholes shall be constructed of precast reinforced concrete sections
conforming to the latest revision of ASTM specification C478. Manhole sections
shall be joined together using either flexible watertight rubber ring gaskets
or preformed bituminous plastic gaskets similar to RAM-NEK made by K.T. Snyder
Company, Inc., or type CS-208 made by Concrete Sealants, Inc., or equal
approved by the village engineer, and shall include an external joint wrap
system, MacWrap or equal. Sanitary sewer manholes shall have a Cretex exterior
rubber chimney seal or an equivalent exterior rubber chimney seal as approved
in advance in writing by the village's director of public works. Top manhole
sections shall be precast eccentric type cones with a twenty four inch (24")
diameter manhole cover opening. All exterior surfaces of manhole sections shall
be sealed with bitumastic material for watertightness. Manhole frames and
covers shall be Neenah Foundry Company no. R-1772, or East Jordan Iron Works,
Inc., no. 1022, or an equivalent as approved in advance in writing by the
village engineer, with standard duty, nonrocking type, indented top solid lids
marked "SEWER". Not more than eight inches (8") of grade adjusting rings will
be permitted. Frames shall be set on a preformed bituminous plastic gasket to
provide a watertight joint. Cast iron steps similar to Neenah Foundry Company
no. R-1980-C, or East Jordan Iron Works, Inc., no. 8501, or an equivalent as
approved in advance in writing by the village engineer, shall be installed at
twelve inch (12") spacing on centers. Precast concrete bottom slabs shall be
carefully bedded on a six inch (6") compacted sand cushion. Spaces around and
under all pipes entering the manholes shall be filled with concrete from the
outside. The invert elevations of sewer pipes entering manholes shall be such
that the inside top of pipe is level with that of the outlet sewer unless a
drop pipe connection is provided on the outside of the manhole. All pipe
connections shall be made with flexible watertight connectors meeting the
requirements of ASTM C923. Resilient connectors shall be cast in place into
manhole walls and shall provide a watertight, flexible seal between the pipe
and manhole. Each manhole shall have bottom concrete fillets shaped to provide
smooth flow channels through manholes conforming in shape and slope to that of
the sewers, with the top of fillet sides at one-half (1/2) of the outlet sewer
vertical diameter dimension. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
5-3-4: STORMWATER DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Storm sewers, culverts, inlets, and open ditches shall be designed to
carry a rate of flow not less than the runoff rate computed by the rational
method formula:
Q = CIA                                         
Q = Runoff rate in cubic feet per second        
A = Drainage area in acres                      
I = Rainfall intensity for a 10-year storm      
C = Runoff coefficient using following values:  
Commercial and industrial                      0.95
Residential, single-family                     0.55
Residential, multi-family                      0.75
Parks, golf courses, etc.                      0.35
Undeveloped                                    0.15
 
   B.   The storm sewer sizes shall be determined on the basis of the Kutter's
formula or the Manning's formula using an "n" roughness coefficient of
thirteen-hundredths (0.13) for smooth pipe and twenty one hundredths (0.21) for
corrugated pipe. The minimum size storm sewer shall be twelve inch (12")
diameter pipe.
   C.   Storm sewers shall be constructed with reinforced concrete pipe
conforming to the latest revision of ASTM specification C76 for class III pipe
with all joints sealed with preformed flexible rubber gaskets in accordance
with the recommendations of the manufacturer.
   D.   Culvert sizes shall be designed to carry the 10-year storm with no head
available at the culvert inlet. The minimum size culvert shall be fifteen inch
(15") diameter pipe. Flared end sections shall be provided for all culvert
pipes of twenty four inch (24") diameter and larger sizes. (Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-
25-2004)
   E.   Storm sewer inlets shall be located at street intersections, low points
between intersections, and at sufficiently frequent intervals that gutters or
ditches will not be overloaded. Low points shall include double inlets. (Ord.
2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
   F.   Storm sewer manholes shall be located at all changes in pipe sizes,
slope or alignment, at all sewer junctions, and at distances of not greater
than five hundred feet (500') for sewer sizes of twelve inch (12") to twenty
one inch (21"), and not greater than six hundred feet (600') for sewer sizes of
twenty four inches (24") and larger.
   G.   Catch basins shall not be provided for storm sewer inlets in curbs and
gutters. Catch basin type inlets shall be provided for ditch and area drains
where excessive silt can be expected to be carried with the stormwater runoff
from unpaved areas. (Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
   H.   Manholes, inlets and catch basins shall be standard types approved by
the state of Illinois department of transportation, division of highways. Inlet
and catch basin frames and grates shall be consistent with the curb and gutter
size. All storm inlets and catch basin frames shall include the "no dumping"
stamp.
   I.   Storm manholes shall have external chimney seals. Chimney seals shall
be Cretex or an equivalent external rubber chimney seals as approved in advance
in writing by the village's director of public works. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-
2015)
5-3-5: STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Street and sidewalk improvements shall be constructed in accordance
with the latest applicable provisions of the "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction" adopted by the state of Illinois department of
transportation, division of highways, hereinafter referred to as the "state
standard specifications" 1 .
   B.   Prior to the construction of public streets and/or sidewalks, all
fences, walls, foundations, buildings, debris, trees and hedges within the
improvement area of the public right of way shall be removed in accordance with
section 201 of the state standard specifications.
   C.   The following specifications shall govern the design, grading and
surfacing of new and existing public streets, unless otherwise approved by the
village engineer 2 .
      1.   The minimum pavement width between backs of curbs shall be:
Class Of Street Residential Industrial Or Business
Class Of Street   Residential                          Industrial Or Business
Major streets     2 24-foot roadway divided by a        
                  vertical strip
Secondary streets 36 feet                              44 feet
Minor streets     27 feet                              40 feet
Cul-de-sac        27 feet                              40 feet
Frontage road     24 feet                              36 feet
Half street       1/2 the width of proposed street but Not permitted
                  not less than 18 feet
Alleys            18 feet                              24 feet
 
      2.   The minimum diameter of cul-de-sac pavements between back of curbs
shall be:
 
Residential            80 feet
Industrial or business 100 feet
 
Island cul-de-sacs shall not have islands that exceed thirty two feet (32') in
diameter as measured face to face.
      3.   Grades of major streets shall not exceed seven percent (7%). Grades
of other streets shall not exceed ten percent (10%). Grades for all streets
shall not be less than four-tenths percent (0.4%).
      4.   The minimum radius of centerline horizontal curves shall be:
 
Major streets     1,000 feet
Secondary streets 300 feet
Minor streets     100 feet
 
      5.   Vertical curves shall be provided for all changes in centerline
grades of streets. The minimum length of vertical centerline curves shall be:
 
Major and secondary streets 300 feet
Minor streets               150 feet
 
      6.   The minimum stopping sight distance shall be three hundred feet
(300') measured from an eye level of four feet (4') above the pavement
centerline with a clear view of an obstacle one foot (1') in height.
      7.   The minimum requirements for street pavement design shall be: (Ord.
2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
 
Class Of Street             Type Of Pavement
                            Subbase 4" granular, CBR = 70 base course 9"
Major streets               stabilized, MS/900 or equal surface course 4"
                            bituminous concrete or class I or 8" portland
                            cement concrete
                            Subbase 4" granular CBR = 70 base course 8"
Industrial/business streets stabilized, MS/900 or equal surface course 3"
                            bituminous concrete, class I or 7" portland cement
                            concrete
                            Base course 6" stabilized MS/900 or 10" gravel or
Secondary streets           crushed stone surface course 3" bituminous
                            concrete, class I or 6" portland cement concrete
                            Base course 8" gravel or crushed stone surface
Minor streets               course 3" bituminous concrete, class I. Minimum 2"
                            binder
 
(Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-15-2004; amd. Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
      7.1.   The minimum requirements for major and industrial/business street
pavement design shall be:
         a.   Two inch (2") hot mix asphalt surface course, mix "D", N50.
         b.   Five inch (5") hot mix asphalt binder course, IL-19.0, N50.
         c.   Twelve inch (12") type A aggregate base course, extending two
feet (2') beyond back of curb.
         d.   Eighteen inch (18") improved subgrade, extending two feet (2')
beyond back of curb.
         e.   Underdrain where determined to be necessary by village engineer.
         f.   Wick drains/Geonet at inlets.
      7.2.   The minimum requirements for secondary street pavement design
shall be:
         a.   Two inch (2") hot mix asphalt surface course, mix "D", N50.
         b.   Five inch (5") hot mix asphalt binder course, IL-19.0, N50.
         c.   Ten inch (10") type A aggregate base course, extending two feet
(2') beyond back of curb.
         d.   Eighteen inch (18") improved subgrade, extending two feet (2')
beyond back of curb.
         e.   Underdrain where determined to be necessary by village engineer.
         f.   Wick drains/Geonet at inlets.
      7.3.   The minimum requirements for minor street pavement design shall
be:
         a.   Two inch (2") hot mix asphalt surface course, mix "D", N50
         b.   Four and one-half inch (41/2") hot mix asphalt binder course, IL-
19.0, N50.
         c.   Six inch (6") type A aggregate base course, extending two feet
(2') beyond back of curb.
         d.   Sixteen inch (16") improved subgrade, extending two feet (2')
beyond back of curb.
         e.   Underdrain where determined to be necessary by village engineer.
         f.   Wick drains/Geonet at inlets. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
      8.   Street pavements shall be constructed in accordance with sections
200, 300 and 400 of the state standard specifications. (Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-25-
2004)
   D.   Combination concrete curbs and gutters shall be constructed along the
edges of all street pavements.
      1.   Gutters and curbs shall be M-4.12 (mountable curb type) for
secondary and minor streets and standard type B-6.24 (barrier curb type) for
major streets as approved by the state division of highways.
      2.   Formed depressed type of entrance curbs having a width of not less
than twelve feet (12') shall be provided at all private driveways. Curb cut
entrances shall be by written approval only. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
      3.   The outside edge of curbs and gutters shall be parallel to street
lines, and radii at intersections shall not be less than twenty five feet
(25').
      4.   Concrete curb and gutters shall be constructed of air entrained
class X portland cement concrete in accordance with section 616 of the state
standard specifications. Contraction joints shall be provided at uniform
intervals of fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
   E.   Sidewalks shall be constructed of air entrained class X portland cement
concrete in accordance with section 624 of the state standard specifications.
      1.   The minimum width of sidewalks shall be:
 
Residential 5 feet
Business    6 feet
 
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
      2.   Sidewalks shall be located one foot (1') inside the right of way
line, and not more than twelve inches (12") nor less than three inches (3")
above the centerline of the street.
      3.   Sidewalk thickness shall be not less than four inches (4") for
pedestrian walks and not less than six inches (6") for private driveway
crossings.
      4.   Sidewalks shall be constructed on a prepared subgrade of not less
than a four inch (4") compacted layer of coarse sand or fine aggregate
conforming to a gradation of one hundred percent (100%) passing a three hundred
seventy five thousandths inch (0.375") sieve.
   F.   Where any roadway within the village is being used by construction
vehicles and equipment, the owner and/or operator of said vehicles or equipment
shall clean said roadway of dirt and any other foreign materials occurred by
the use of said vehicles and equipment at the end of each day's operation or as
directed by the village.
   G.   Sidewalks removed for utility repairs shall be replaced with same.
Driveway approaches removed for utility repairs shall be replaced with two inch
(2") bituminous concrete regardless of the preexisting driveway material. (Ord.
2004-02-03, 2-25-2004)
   H.   Pavement markings shall be thermoplastic with glass beads. (Ord. 2015-
03-02, 3-11-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 605 ILCS 5/7-202.2 et seq.
2 1. See also subsection 11-2-4G of this code.
CHAPTER 4
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Administration And Enforcement Provisions
5-4-2: Use Of Public System Required
5-4-3: Connections To System
5-4-3.1: Southern Line Sewer Recapture Fee
5-4-3.2: Southern Line Sewer Supplementary Connection Fee
5-4-3.3: Northern Line Sewer Recapture Fee
5-4-3.4: Northern Line Sewer Supplementary Connection Fee
5-4-4: Water Meter Inspection
5-4-5: Water Meter Conduit
5-4-6: Water Meter Specifications
5-4-7: Water Service Piping Sizing
5-4-8: Water Towers
5-4-9: Water Meters, New Construction
5-4-9.1: Water Meters
5-4-9.2: Reserved
5-4-9.3: Reserved
5-4-9.4: Remote Meters
5-4-9.5: Commercial, Industrial And Institutional Water Meters
5-4-9.6: Outdoor Lawn Sprinkling Systems
5-4-9.7: Radio Read Meter Transceiver Unit ("MXU")
5-4-10: Program For Reduction Of Unaccounted For Flows
5-4-11: Limited Water Hydrant Use
5-4-12: Use Of Pumpage From The Village's Deep Aquifer Wells
5-4-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Regulations Provided; Notice Of: A copy of this chapter properly
certified by the village clerk shall be filed in the office of the recorder of
deeds of Lake County, and shall be deemed notice to all owners of real estate
of their liability for service supplied to any user of the service of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system of said village on their properties.
   B.   Officers' Authority To Enforce Claims: It shall be the duty of the
village clerk and such other officers of the village to take all action
necessary or required by the laws of the state thereunto enabling to file all
claims and liens for money due to the village, as well as interest, penalties
thereon, and reasonable attorney fees and other costs of collection, and to
prosecute and enforce such claims in the manner, form and time as permitted by
the laws of the state of Illinois 1.
   C.   Village Right Of Access: The village of Lake Villa shall have the right
of access to any premises served by the combined waterworks and/or sewage
system for the reading, inspecting, maintaining, or installation of any and all
equipment related to the waterworks and/or sewage system. The village of Lake
Villa shall also have the right of access to any premises served by the
combined waterworks and/or sewerage system in order to inspect waterworks or
sewerage equipment necessary to maintain and efficiently manage said system, if
the village believes this equipment is not functioning properly.
      Where said inspections and maintenance are not of an immediate or urgent
nature, the village of Lake Villa shall arrange for appointments mutually
convenient to the owner(s) and/or tenant(s) of the premises served. Any person
refusing the village of Lake Villa right of access or refusing to make an
appointment to the applicable premises in order to make an inspection, or
perform maintenance as defined in this subsection, shall be subject to not only
cessation of utility services until the required opportunity to inspect the
premises is afforded but also to a penalty as hereinafter provided. The village
of Lake Villa shall provide at least a thirty (30) day notice prior to the
cessation of utility services for the reasons described in this subsection.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to mandatory fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A determination by a court or a determination
reached by the Village's Hearing Officer in the Village's Administrative
Adjudication System that a violation of this chapter has taken place and the
assessment of a fine for such violation shall not preclude the village from
seeking a recovery of any unpaid charges, fees or other sums due the village
under this or other ordinances because of the furnishing by the village of its
utility services. (Ord. 2009-02-04, 2-25-2009; amd. Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016;
Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant, or party or parties in possession
of any house, structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment or any
other building of any other character located on property abutting on the
public waterworks and sewerage system, to cause such house, structure, factory,
industrial or commercial establishment or any other building of any other
character to be connected with the said waterworks and sewerage system within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so or within ninety (90)
days from the date that water or sewerage facilities become available to such
property, whichever is the event last to occur, provided that said public water
main or sewer is within one hundred feet (100') (30.5 meters) of the property
line. It shall be the duty of the owner of premises hereinafter constructed in
the village which shall be located along the public combined waterworks and
sewerage system to immediately connect with the said combined system. (1983
Code)
5-4-3: CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Specifications And Regulations: The Mayor and board of trustees are
hereby authorized to make such rules and regulations consistent with this
chapter for the connections to the waterworks and sewerage system, specifying
the types and sizes of pipes and all the other appurtenances and extensions
thereto, and amend the same from time to time as may be deemed necessary. All
service pipes and connections to the combined waterworks and sewerage system
shall comply with the said specifications and rules. Any person not complying
with the specifications and rules for connection to the combined waterworks and
sewerage system shall be subject to a penalty as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Permit Provisions:
      1.   Permit Signed By The Village Administrator Required: No connection
shall be made with the combined waterworks and sewerage system without a permit
signed by the Village Administrator after consultation with the Village
Engineer. Any connection or opening made with the said system without such
signed permit or in any manner different from the mode prescribed for such
opening or connection shall subject the maker to a penalty hereinafter
provided.
      2.   Application Required: No person shall make any connection to the
water mains or the sewer mains of the combined waterworks and sewerage system
of the village except upon written application submitted to the Village
Administrator and the issuance of a permit by the Village Administrator for
such connection. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the
permit desired, the location to be used, and the fees to be paid; and each
application shall contain such additional information as may be needed for the
proper guidance of the village officials in the issuing of the permit.
   C.   Inspection Required; Fee: The Village Engineer or a licensed plumber
retained by the Village shall inspect each connection to either the waterworks
system or sewerage system of the Village. The inspection will determine that
the construction thereof is in accordance with specifications established by
the village for the regulation of said systems. Each application for connection
to the waterworks and/or sewerage systems shall be accompanied by an inspection
fee and said inspection fee shall be in addition to the connection charge
authorized by statute. The inspection will determine that the tap-on thereof is
in accordance with specifications established by the village for the regulation
of said system. The charge for making said inspections shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   D.   Construction; Workmen, Bonds: Each applicant shall provide and pay the
cost of construction, both labor and material, of the service and fittings from
the main to the premises to be served. The construction work relative to any
new water service shall be performed by a licensed plumber who has a properly
executed bond in the amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, unless the requirement for such bond is waived in
writing by the Village Administrator, and such bond shall be kept on file in
the office of the village clerk. The construction work in connection with the
building sewer shall be performed by a licensed drain layer, licensed
journeyman plumber, or registered apprentice plumber under the supervision of a
licensed plumber who has a properly executed bond on file in the office of the
village clerk.
   E.   Meters, Charge: The water meter and fittings shall be furnished by the
village and the applicant shall be required to pay an additional fee to the
Village for the cost of said meter and fittings as well as any out-of-pocket
costs incurred by the Village, including for the installation of same and/or
for the replacement of a frozen, broken, missing, or otherwise damaged water
meter, in an amount as specified from time to time in section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   F.   Connection Fees: Pursuant to the authority granted in the Illinois
municipal code and all other applicable authority, there is hereby established
within the village a charge for connecting into the sewage collection and
treatment system or the water system of the village and shall be known as a
"connection charge". The connection charge shall be payable at the time a
building or connection permit is issued. The amount of the "connection charge"
may be comprised of several component charges. The basic component charge shall
be a sum fixed within this chapter to be designated as the "water connection
tap-on fee" and/or "sewer connection tap-on fee".
      The "connection charge" shall be determined by adding together the
component charges which are applicable to each new or additional user of the
system, the sum of which shall constitute the total connection fee. This fee
shall reimburse the village for a portion of the waterworks and/or sewerage
system previously constructed by the village which the applicant now seeks to
utilize and to increase the water storage capacity of the entire system,
provided however, the payment of such connection charges shall not relieve an
applicant which is a subdivider or other developer, as the case may be, from
providing and constructing, at its own expense, such additional sewerage system
and/or waterworks infrastructure as may be uniquely attributable to a specific
development and as deemed necessary by the village board to permit the village
to provide such services to such development. The several component charges of
any "connection charge" are established as follows:
      1.   Single-Family Residential: For a single-family residential
connection, the water connection tap-on fee shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      2.   Multi-Family Residential: For all multi-family residential
connections, including a duplex, which are to be served collectively by one
water meter, the water connection tap-on fee shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per dwelling unit. No credit shall apply for multi-
family units.
      3.   Service By More Than One Meter: For all multi-family residential
connections, including a duplex, which are not to be served collectively by one
water meter, the water connection tap-on fee shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per dwelling unit. Where a single- family home is
converted into a multi-family unit, water connection tap-on fee shall be paid
for each dwelling unit.
      4.   Other Types Of Connections: For all other types of connections, such
as, but not limited to, commercial, institutional, or industrial, the water
connection tap-on fee shall be determined by the village engineer utilizing the
flow rate for nonresidential water usage chart, as approved from time to time
by the village board, to calculate the residential equivalent (RE). The RE
shall then be multiplied times the water connection tap-on fee for a single-
family residential connection as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code to determine the water connection tap-on fee for
the commercial, institutional, or industrial connection, but in no event shall
the water tap-on fee be less than as specified from time to time in Section 1-
18-1 of this Village Code. In the event the use is not listed on the chart,
then the village engineer shall utilize a comparable type use from the chart,
or if no such comparable use is reflected on the chart, then utilize generally
accepted criteria for flow rates for the intended use to calculate an RE.
      5.   Basis Of Fees: Connection fees are based upon dwelling units or
residential equivalents and may be reduced by an amount as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per dwelling unit or per residential equivalent in
the event a developer installs, at its sole expense, a well to serve its
development, and if such developer transfers title to such well to the village.
      6.   One Inch Water Service Required: All dwellings shall be serviced
with a minimum of one inch (1") water service, or such greater diameter service
as determined necessary by the village engineer to ensure adequate and safe
service.
      7.   Sewer Tap-On Fee For Single-Family Residential: For a single- family
residential connection, the sewer connection tap-on fee shall be as specified
from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      8.   Sewer Tap-On Fee For Multi-Family Residential: For all multi- family
residential connections, the sewer connection tap-on fee shall be as specified
from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code per dwelling unit.
      9.   Sewer Tap-On Fees For All Other Connections: For all other types of
connections, such as, but not limited to, commercial, institutional, or
industrial, the sewer connection tap-on fee shall be determined by the village
engineer utilizing the flow rate for nonresidential water usage chart, as
approved from time to time by the village board, to calculate the residential
equivalent (RE). The RE shall then be multiplied times the sewer connection
tap-on fee for a single-family residential connectionas specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code to determine the sewer connection tap-on fee for
the commercial, institutional, or industrial connection, but in no event shall
the sewer tap-on fee be less than as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. In the event the use is not listed on the chart,
then the village engineer shall utilize a comparable type use from the chart,
or if no such comparable use is reflected on the chart, then utilize generally
accepted criteria for flow rates for the intended use to calculate an RE.
   G.   Disposition Of Revenue: The revenue received by the village from the
fees and charges described above shall be deposited into the waterworks and
sewerage fund of the village.
   H.   Temporary Connections: Temporary connections to the waterworks system,
through a fire hydrant or such other means as is approved by the village board,
shall be permitted, by express approval of the village board, for connections,
which do not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days in duration. Such connections
shall be subject to inspection, connection, and water usage fees, as may be
approved by the village board from time to time, and be done in a manner and
with equipment approved by the village superintendent of public works. The
permittee shall fully comply with the terms of this section, except as may be
specified by the village board as a condition of permit approval.
   I.   Sewer Subarea System: The Lake Villa sewer subarea system is hereby
established. All property served by the village sewage system which is located
southerly of the boundary line depicted on exhibit A, attached to the ordinance
codified herein, shall be considered part of the south system and shall be
connected to, directly or indirectly, and served by the southern line sewer.
All property served by the village sewage system which is located northerly of
the boundary line depicted on exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified
herein, shall be considered part of the north system and shall be connected to,
directly or indirectly, and served by the northern line sewer. (Ord. 75-6-1, 6-
11-1975; amd. Ord. 87-11-1, 11-11-1987; Ord. 88-7-4; Ord. 95-7-2, 7-12-1995;
Ord. 2002-10-1, 10-23-2002; Ord. 2005-04-01, 4-13-2005; Ord. 2005-12-05, 12-28-
2005; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4-3.1: SOUTHERN LINE SEWER RECAPTURE FEE:
The village is in the process of constructing a southern line interceptor sewer
to enable the village to take out of service its existing sewage treatment
plant, and to divert the sewage flow previously treated by the plant to the Fox
Lake regional treatment plant through the southern line interceptor sewer, and
then through the Lake County interceptor situated on Route 59.
Lake Villa previously entered into a certain first amendment to annexation
agreement on March 27, 1991, which was duly recorded with the Lake County
recorder of deeds on April 11, 1991, as document number 3007221, which
provides, in part, that the developer and owner governed by that instrument are
entitled to recapture of the funds advanced by them for the southern line sewer
project. For connections to lots in subdivisions, which have final plats
recorded after adoption of this section, and, as to all other connections after
the southern line interceptor sewer is operational, prior to the issuance of a
building permit for any residential or commercial structure which is designed
to discharge, directly or indirectly, into the southern line interceptor sewer,
a recapture fee shall be paid in accordance with the formula set forth in
exhibit I to the first amendment to annexation agreement. If, at the time of
building permit issuance, the total southern line sewer project costs are not
known or undetermined, then the applicant shall be required to deposit a sum
equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the recapture fee as estimated by the
village engineer. At such time as the southern line total project costs are
known, the actual recapture fee shall be determined. Any excess funds paid by
the permittee shall be released to the permittee. If additional funds are due
and owing from the building permit permittee, they shall be promptly paid
within ten (10) days of written notice. The failure to pay any outstanding
balance of the recapture fee shall automatically result in the building permit
and any occupancy permit issued thereafter being rendered null and void.
These recapture fees shall be remitted by the village on a quarterly basis.
This recapture fee is in addition to any other connection fees or any other
fees charged by the village for connection for sewer service. (Ord. 92-4-2, 4-
8-1992)
5-4-3.2: SOUTHERN LINE SEWER SUPPLEMENTARY CONNECTION FEE:
The village has constructed a southern line sewer to enable the village to take
out of service its sewage treatment plant, and to divert the sewage flow
previously treated by the plant to the Fox Lake regional treatment plant
through the southern line sewer, and then through the Lake County interceptor
situated on Route 59.
A supplementary connection fee shall be paid for every dwelling, business,
industry, and institution connecting to the village system and discharging
directly or indirectly into the county's collector system in an amount
determined by the Lake County connection fee schedule as specified in the Lake
County code of ordinances or such other sum as may be lawfully determined from
time to time by the county per residential customer equivalent. In determining
multi-family housing connection fees, the schedule as set forth in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be used for calculation of this fee.
These fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of a building permit. These
supplementary connection fees shall be in addition to any other connection fees
or any other fees charged by the village for connection for sewer service.
(Ord. 2017-02-01, 2-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4-3.3: NORTHERN LINE SEWER RECAPTURE FEE:
The northern line interceptor sewer is presently under construction. After
completion, it will be accepted by, and thereafter owned and operated by the
village. The sewer will accept sanitary waste from the area of Route 83 and
Petite Lake Road and other immediate areas, and transport the waste to the
county interceptor sewer situated on Route 59, at or near the intersection of
Route 59 and Petite Lake Road, which is described as the "northern line service
area".
Lake Villa previously entered into a certain first amendment to annexation
agreement on March 27, 1991, which was duly recorded with the Lake County
recorder of deeds on April 11, 1991, as document number 3007221, which
provides, in part, that the developer and owner governed by that instrument are
entitled to recapture of the funds advanced by them for the northern line sewer
project. Accordingly, after the northern line interceptor sewer is operational,
prior to the issuance of a building permit for any residential or commercial
structure, which is located within the northern line service area, and which is
designed to discharge, directly or indirectly, into the northern line
interceptor sewer, a recapture fee shall be paid in accordance with the formula
set forth in exhibit I to the first amendment to annexation agreement. If, at
the time of building permit issuance, the total northern line sewer project
costs are not known or undetermined, then the applicant shall be required to
deposit a sum equal to one and one-half (11/2) times the recapture fee as
estimated by the village engineer. At such time as the northern line total
project costs are known, the actual recapture fee shall be determined. Any
excess funds paid by the permittee shall be released to the permittee. If
additional funds are due and owing from the building permit permittee, they
shall be promptly paid within ten (10) days of written notice. The failure to
pay any outstanding balance of the recapture fee shall automatically result in
the building permit and any occupancy permit issued thereafter being rendered
null and void.
These recapture fees shall be remitted by the village on a quarterly basis.
This recapture fee is in addition to any other connection fees or any other
fees charged by the village for connection for sewer service. (Ord. 95-4-1, 4-
12-1995)
5-4-3.4: NORTHERN LINE SEWER SUPPLEMENTARY CONNECTION FEE:
The northern line sewer has been constructed. This sewer accepts sanitary waste
from the area of Route 83 and Petite Lake Road and other immediate areas, and
transports the waste to the county interceptor sewer situated on Route 59, at
or near the intersection of Route 59 and Petite Lake Road, which is described
as the northern line service area.
Accordingly, a supplementary connection fee shall be paid for every dwelling,
business, industry, and institution connecting to the village system and
discharging directly or indirectly into the county's collector system in an
amount determined by the Lake County connection fee schedule as specified in
the Lake County code of ordinances or such other sum as may be lawfully
determined from time to time by the county per residential customer equivalent.
In determining multi-family housing connection fees, the schedule as set forth
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be used in calculating this fee.
These fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of a building permit. These
supplementary connection fees shall be in addition to any other connection fees
or any other fees charged by the village for connection for sewer service.
(Ord. 2017-02-01, 2-8-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4-4: WATER METER INSPECTION:
If any water user should request in writing that their water meter be checked
by the village for accuracy, the village shall supply said inspection. If the
meter is operating correctly in the opinion of the village or its
representative, then the owner shall assume the costs for said inspection. If
the meter is not operating correctly in the opinion of the village or its
representative, then the village will not bill the user for the inspection and
the village will repair or replace the meter. (Ord. 79-7-1, 7-25-1979)
5-4-5: WATER METER CONDUIT:
In all new construction, metal conduit and 3-conductor, 18-gauge wire shall be
installed from the water meter location to an outside wall at a point
approximately five feet (5') from the front of the building or to a location
approved by the electrical inspector. Village will install and connect a remote
reader to each water meter. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
5-4-6: WATER METER SPECIFICATIONS:
Plumbing shall be provided by the owner to accommodate meter installation at an
accessible location as determined by the plumbing inspector. There shall be no
more than five feet (5') of exposed water pipe on the street side of the meter.
Meter spreads shall be as follows:
Meter Size (Inches) Spread Opening (Inches) Meter Length (Inches)
Meter Size (Inches) Spread Opening (Inches) Meter Length (Inches)
5/8 x 3/4           12                      71/2 face to face
3/4                 12                      71/2 face to face
1                   151/4                   103/4 face to face
11/2                141/2                   13 face to face
2 compound                                 17 face to face
3 compound                                 17 face to face
4 compound                                 24 face to face
 
(Ord. 88-5-1, 4-27-1988)
5-4-7: WATER SERVICE PIPING SIZING:
The water service piping from the street main to the distribution system for
the building shall be of sufficient size to provide an adequate flow of water
to meet the requirements of the entire building at peak demand. In no case
shall the service pipe be less than one inch (1") nominal diameter. All duplex
dwellings shall be a minimum of one and one-fourth inches (11/4") nominal size.
(Ord. 89-4-1, 4-12-1989)
5-4-8: WATER TOWERS:
Any water tower which provides potable water for residential consumption or
commercial purposes shall have clearly painted on the bulb the colors, words
and symbols approved in advance by the village board. All water towers shall
have cathodic protection and have top warning lights with one hundred ten (110)
volt outlets and mounting rail. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
5-4-9: WATER METERS, NEW CONSTRUCTION:
5-4-9.1: WATER METERS:
   A.   New Construction And Major Remodeling: As to all new construction, all
buildings serviced by the village water system shall be equipped with an
approved water meter. All existing nonmetered water services connected to the
village water system shall be metered as part of any major remodeling. Such
meters will be supplied by the village, and shall be properly installed by or
at the expense of the permit holder in accordance with specifications approved
by the village. The meter shall be supplied with connections.
   B.   Costs; Installation; Specifications: The owner and permit holder shall
be jointly and severally responsible for the cost of all meter installation(s)
and/or replacement(s) and accessories costs and shall reimburse the village for
all such costs. Such costs are subject to change periodically as determined by
the Village Administrator. No accessories or equipment shall be installed
within twelve inches (12") of either side or in front of the water meter. The
water meter shall have a ball valve located within twelve inches (12")
downstream of meter.
   C.   Functionality: The owner and the permit holder shall be jointly and
severally obligated to install the water meter so that it is fully functional
and operational. This functionality requirement includes the requirement that
the meter, phone jack, meter interface unit ("MIU") or meter transceiver
("MXU") (phone jack not required), and the outside touchpad all be installed,
operational, and be accessible to village personnel. The village will determine
if an MIU or MXU will be installed. Village personnel shall make such
inspection(s) as necessary to ensure that the meter is functioning and
operational. The cost of the initial inspection is included in the fees paid by
the owner. However, if the meter is not functional and operational at the time
of the initial inspection, and should village personnel thereafter find it
necessary to make additional inspections to ensure that the meter is installed
and functional, then the owner and permit holder shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the cost of each additional inspection at the rate as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each such inspection. (Ord. 2011-05-01, 5-11-
2011; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4-9.2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
5-4-9.3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
5-4-9.4: REMOTE METERS:
A remote readings system shall be installed on all new residential, commercial,
and industrial buildings serviced by village water. The remote touchpad
installed by the village shall be installed on the front of each building or on
the side of such building within five feet (5') of the front of such building.
Connecting wire shall be 3-conductor, 18-gauge wire. The wire shall be run in
one-half inch (1/2") EMT conduit and be installed with one foot (1') excess
wire for village connection to an MXU. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
5-4-9.5: COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER METERS:
Custom meter assemblies for meters larger than those used in residential
applications shall be designed and installed by or at the expense of the permit
holder and owner so that each such meter is firmly affixed to and supported by
the adjoining wall and floor. Before the installation of any custom water meter
assembly, the proposed design shall be submitted to the village and reviewed
and approved in writing, in advance by the village engineer. Remote metering
requirements shall be the same as for residential installations as set forth
above. (Ord. 2005-10-03, 10-26-2005)
5-4-9.6: OUTDOOR LAWN SPRINKLING SYSTEMS:
All commercial, industrial and institutional outdoor lawn sprinkling systems
may be submetered if requested and installation shall be by or at the expense
of the owner and permit holder. Before the installation of such submetering
assembly, the proposed design shall be submitted to the village and reviewed
and approved in writing, in advance by the village engineer. (Ord. 2005-10-03,
10-26-2005)
5-4-9.7: RADIO READ METER TRANSCEIVER UNIT ("MXU"):
For all new construction, all buildings serviced by the village shall be
equipped with an MXU supplied by the village. The MXU will be installed on the
exterior of the building next to the remote reader by a village employee. A
phone jack is not required if an MXU is used instead of an MIU. (Ord. 2005-10-
03, 10-26-2005)
5-4-10: PROGRAM FOR REDUCTION OF UNACCOUNTED FOR FLOWS:
As soon as practical, and not later than sixty (60) days after the director of
public works is able to calculate the net annual pumpage of water from the
village water system for each twelve (12) month period beginning October 1 and
ending on the following September 30, the director will submit to the village
board of trustees proposed annual programs to be implemented as soon as
practical, which shall include proposed measures: a) to conduct leakage
monitoring and correction relative to the village water system, including, but
not limited to, the storage, transmission and distribution systems thereof; b)
the installation of facilities and the implementation of programs to reduce to
a reasonable minimum and to account for water used for navigational, lockage
and leakage purposes and for pollution treatment, control and abatement
purposes; c) to endeavor to reduce or eliminate wasteful water use and to
endeavor to reduce unaccounted flows to eight percent (8%) or less, based upon
net annual pumpage of the village water system; and d) proposed public
education programs for encouraging reduction of water use. Each program
submitted annually to the board of trustees shall include a report on the
status of implementation of the prior year's annual program measures which were
approved for implementation by the board of trustees. After the approval by the
board of trustees of each such annual program, the director of public works
shall submit such annual program, as approved by the board of trustees, in
writing to the Illinois department of natural resources, and each such annual
submittal shall include a written report on the implementation of the prior
year's program. (Ord. 2011-05-01, 5-11-2011)
5-4-11: LIMITED WATER HYDRANT USE:
The director of public works will use a reasonable effort to monitor the
quantity of village water system hydrant use flows and limit the use of such
hydrant to one percent (1%) or less of the net annual pumpage. (Ord. 2011-05-
01, 5-11-2011)
5-4-12: USE OF PUMPAGE FROM THE VILLAGE'S DEEP AQUIFER WELLS:
Within five (5) years of the date that the village's use of its Lake Michigan
water allocation becomes fully operational, the village will terminate the use
of pumpage from its deep aquifer wells, except for emergency and standby use.
(Ord. 2011-05-01, 5-11-2011)
ARTICLE A. COMBINED SYSTEM CHARGES AND RATES
SECTION:
5-4A-1: Definitions
5-4A-2: Classes Of Users
5-4A-3: Service Rates Established; Provisions
5-4A-4: Service Billing
5-4A-5: Delinquencies
5-4A-6: Nonpayment For Village Service(s); Disconnection Procedures
5-4A-7: Nonpayment For Sanitary Sewer Services; Disconnection Procedures
5-4A-8: Revenues
5-4A-9: Accounting, Audit
5-4A-10: Use Of Village Fire Hydrants And/Or Village Fill Station
5-4A-11: Tampering Prohibited
5-4A-12: Emergency Provisions
5-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The sum of interest and principal of outstanding revenue
bonds and bond reserve account requirements for each fiscal year.
FEDERAL GRANT: Grant in aid funds from the United States environmental
protection agency for financing the construction of waste treatment works
pursuant to title II of the federal water pollution control act amendments of
1972, public law 92-500, 33 USC 1251 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the
"act").
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the waste treatment works
that:
   A.   Contributes a waste flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average workday.
   B.   Contributes a waste flow greater than five percent (5%) of the total
flow.
   C.   Contributes a waste with pollutants in toxic amounts defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the act, PL 92-500.
   D.   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the waste treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from the treatment works as defined in the NPDES permit issued
pursuant to sections 402 and 405 of the act, PL 92-500.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS: Expenditures for normal recurring costs for
operating and maintaining the waste treatment works in accordance with the
requirements of the NPDES permit including salaries for operating personnel,
electrical power, fuel, chemicals, materials and supplies, contract services,
replacement and other incidental costs.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for purchasing and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the waste treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
SEWER CHARGE: The sum of "user charge" and "debt service charge".
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of the waste treatment works for the cost
of operation and maintenance including replacement. (Ord. 76-2-2, 2-25-1976)
5-4A-2: CLASSES OF USERS:
The division of wastewater treatment customers by waste characteristics and
process or discharge similarities is hereby established as follows:
Commercial: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments
or places engaged in selling merchandise for personal, household or industrial
consumption, and/or rendering services to others.
Governmental: Shall include legislative, judicial, administrative, and
regulatory activities of Federal, State and local governments, such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, city halls, and similar governmental
users.
Industrial: Shall include manufacturing activities involving the mechanical or
chemical transformation of materials of substance into new products. These
activities occur in establishments usually described as plants, factories, or
mills and characteristically use power driven machines and material handling
equipment.
Institutional: Shall include social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.
Residential: Shall include all dwelling units such as detached, semidetached,
and row houses, mobile homes, garden and standard apartments, permanent multi-
family dwellings. (Transit lodging, considered commercial in nature, is not
included.) (Ord. 75-7-3, 7-9-1975)
5-4A-3: SERVICE RATES ESTABLISHED; PROVISIONS:
There shall be and there are hereby established rates or charges for the use of
and for the service supplied by the combined waterworks and sewerage system
(sometimes referred to herein as "the combined system") of the Village, based
upon the amount of water consumed as shown by the water meters, as follows:
   A.   Water Charges Per Month:
      1.   Past, Current and Future Charges
         a.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2015, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered
water usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined
system shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         b.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2016, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered
water usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined
system shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         c.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2017, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water
usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined system
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         d.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2018, and
thereafter until amended by the Board of Trustees, for each user of water of
the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water
usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined system
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         e.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2019, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered
water usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined
system shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         f.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2020, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered
water usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined
system shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         g.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2021, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered
water usage, and the minimum charge for water service of the combined system
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         h.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2022, for each user
of water of the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water
usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined system
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         i.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2023, and
thereafter until amended by the Board of Trustees, for each user of water of
the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water
usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined system
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         j.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2024, and
thereafter until amended by the Board of Trustees, for each user of water of
the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water
usage, and the minimum monthly charge for water service of the combined system
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         k.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2025, and
thereafter until amended by the Board of Trustees, for each user of water of
the combined system, the charge shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for water service
of the combined system shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   Sewer Charges Per Month:
      1.   Past, Current and Future Charges:
         a.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2015, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         b.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2016, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         c.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2017, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         d.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2018, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         e.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2019, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         f.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2020, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         g.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2021, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         h.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2022, for each user
of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each one
thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         i.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2023, a for each
user of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each
one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per month.
         j.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2024, a for each
user of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each
one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
         k.   Effective for all bills released after May 1, 2025, a for each
user of the sanitary sewer system of the combined system, the charge for each
one thousand (1,000) gallons of metered water usage shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and the minimum monthly charge for sanitary sewer
service of the sanitary sewers of the combined system shall be as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the monthly charge during the period of
May 15 to September 15, for sewer service for residential customers of the
combined system, shall not exceed the percentage as specified from time to time
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code of metered water usage of the average monthly usage
for the preceding period between November 1 and April 30 multiplied by the then
applicable sewer service rate for each one thousand (1,000) gallons. Where
sufficient information is not available, as in the case of a new customer, the
maximum amount per month charged to said account/customer shall not exceed two
hundred eleven (211) gallons per day, or based upon the actual metered usage,
whichever is less, multiplied by the then applicable aggregate rate for each
one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      Where the user of the sewerage system uses water from a source other than
the Village owned waterworks system, the user shall, at his cost, install a
water meter to record the amount of water used. In such cases, employees of the
village shall have the right of access to the premises for the purpose of
reading the water meter to establish the charge for the sewerage service. The
water meter shall be of a type and size designated by the Village. The water
meter shall be maintained in good operating and recording condition at all
times at the expense of the user. Any person who fails to or refuses to install
a water meter in accordance with this subsection within twenty-one (21) days
after being requested in writing by the Village to do so shall be subject to
mandatory fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Each day that said water meter is not installed
pursuant to this chapter shall be considered a separate offense.
   C.   Regional Inflow and Infiltration (I & I) Surcharge: Effective January
1, 2014, in addition to those Village charges billed to each user of the
sanitary sewer system of those portions of the Village's combined system
tributary to the Lake County Northwest Regional Sanitary Sewer System, the
Village shall also charge each such user a monthly surcharge user fee as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per Residential Customer Equivalent ("RCE") per
month based upon metered water usage. Such surcharge user fee shall be billed
by the Village as part of the customary sewer and water bills sent to each such
user tributary to the Lake County Northwest Regional Sanitary Sewer System.
Such Regional I & I Surcharge shall be collected by the Village and paid to
Lake County to support the Northwest Regional Excess Flow Facility Improvements
which will mitigate excess flows caused by inflow and infiltration into the
public sanitary sewer systems which are tributary to the Lake County Northwest
Regional Sanitary Sewer System.
   D.   Multiple Users: The aforesaid rates described herein shall apply to
each single-family unit, or commercial unit of each building served. In cases
where more than one unit is located in a single building or being served
through a single water meter; such as duplex, multi-unit dwellings, more than
one commercial unit in the same building, or commercial and residential units
located in the same building, there shall be a separate minimum water and sewer
service charge for each commercial unit or single-family unit served.
      The payment of the minimum charge for each unit shall allow the use of
the quantity of water allowed for each minimum service charge. After
determining the total water allowance, calculated by multiplying the number of
units billed times the water allowed for each unit, any water consumed in
excess of the total water allowance shall be billed to the owner of the
premises at the then applicable water and sewer rates applicable to the excess
for water and sewer service without further consideration to the number of
units connected.
   E.   Specialized Business Users: With the prior approval of the Village
Board, or by the Village Administrator, as the Village Board's designee, any
specialized business using excess quantity of water for resale commodity shall
be billed at a water rate as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2012-08-04, 8-22-2012, eff. 9-15-2012; amd.
Ord. 2021-03-02, 3-15-2021; Ord. 2022-05-01, 5-2-2022; Ord. 2024-05-04, 5-6-
2024; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4A-4: SERVICE BILLING:
   A.   Dates Payable: Said rates or charges for service shall be payable
monthly, bimonthly or quarterly as the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall
direct, on the first day of the month succeeding the period for which service
was supplied.
   B.   Liability For Payment: The owner(s) and occupant(s) of the premises
shall be jointly and severally liable for all water and sewer services rendered
by the Village for such premises.
   C.   Bills Rendered: All bills for service shall be rendered as of the first
day of the month succeeding the period for which the service is billed, and
shall be payable not later than the close of business on the twentieth day
after date of bill.
      It is hereby made the duty of the Village Administrator of the Village to
render bills for service and for all rates and charges in connection therewith
and to collect all monies due thereon.
   D.   Penalty: If payment of the full amount of the bill is not made within
said period, then a fee for late payment as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be added thereto. (Ord. 75-7-3, 7-9-1975;
amd. Ord. 76-1-2, 1-28-1976; Ord. 90-10-1, 10-24-1990; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024)
5-4A-5: DELINQUENCIES:
In the event the charges for service are not paid within thirty (30) days after
rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter such delinquencies shall
constitute liens upon the real estate for which such service is supplied, and
the village clerk and/or village treasurer are hereby authorized and directed
to file sworn statements showing such delinquencies in the office of the
recorder of deeds of Lake County, and the filing of such statements in such
office shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges for such service.
(Ord. 2009-02-04, 2-25-2009)
5-4A-6: NONPAYMENT FOR VILLAGE SERVICE(S); DISCONNECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   If the rates or charges for the services as set forth in this chapter
are not paid within thirty (30) days after rendition of the bill for such
services, then a notice shall be sent to the delinquent party who is
responsible for payment of said bill. The notice will advise that if the bill
is not paid within five (5) days that the service will be disconnected. Any
delinquent party may request a hearing by the village board upon receipt of the
"water shutoff" notice.
   B.   If service is disconnected, it shall not be reinstated until all past
due bills, including any penalties thereon, are paid in full, together with
payment of a reconnection fee for each line as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, or such other amount as may be established from
time to time by the village board, for reinstating such service. (Ord. 2009-02-
04, 2-25-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4A-7: NONPAYMENT FOR SANITARY SEWER SERVICES; DISCONNECTION PROCEDURES:
In cases where the village provides water service through its combined
waterworks and sewerage system but sanitary sewer services are provided to a
particular property or premises by a sanitary sewer service provider other than
the village, if there is then in effect an intergovernmental agreement with
such sanitary sewer service provider to so provide, the village may disconnect,
or shut off such village water service to such premises upon written request of
the sanitary sewer service provider and written evidence received from such
sanitary sewer service provider that the owner and/or occupant of the premises
has been sent written notice not less than thirty (30) days prior to any
proposed disconnection and/or shutoff of village water service by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and by regular mail, such village water service
may be disconnected or shut off by the village due to a failure by the property
owner or occupant to pay for service provided by the sanitary sewer service
provider, but notwithstanding the foregoing: a) at the sole discretion of the
mayor and/or the board of trustees, in order to protect the public health and
safety and/or to address other exigent circumstance(s), the mayor and/or board
of trustees may defer or postpone such disconnection or shutoff for up to sixty
(60) additional days; or b) at the sole discretion of the director of public
works of the village, the director of public works may defer or postpone such
disconnection or shutoff until weather conditions permit. If service is
disconnected or shut off by the village, the village may not reinstate water
service to the premises until all past due bills due to the sanitary sewer
service provider and due to the village for water service and relative to such
disconnection or shutoff are paid in full, including any penalties thereon,
together with the payment to the village of both a shutoff fee as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each line, and a water service reconnection fee
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each line, or such other amount(s) as may be
established from time to time by the board of trustees for such fees. (Ord.
2009-02-04, 2-25-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4A-8: REVENUES:
   A.   Disposition Of Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the
operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be held by the
village clerk separate and apart from her private funds and separate and apart
from all other funds of the village and all of said sum, without any deductions
whatever, shall be delivered to the village treasurer not more than ten (10)
days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from
time to time be directed by the president and board of trustees.
   B.   Deposit Of Revenues: The village treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the combined waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds
and monies incident to the operation of such system as the same may be
delivered to her and deposit the same in a separate fund designated as the
waterworks and sewerage fund of the village of Lake Villa and said treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by the
provisions of the Illinois municipal code and all laws amendatory thereof and
supplementary thereto 1 . (Ord. 75-7-3, 7-9-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-133-3.
5-4A-9: ACCOUNTING, AUDIT:
The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals she shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the combined system. (Ord. 75-7-3, 7-9-1975)
5-4A-10: USE OF VILLAGE FIRE HYDRANTS AND/OR VILLAGE FILL STATION:
Use of any water from fire hydrants located within the Village is prohibited,
except for use by first responders in cases of emergency and/or when otherwise
authorized in writing by a Village official. All fill-ups shall occur at the
designated fill station located at the Village of Lake Villa Public Works
facility unless another location for such purpose is otherwise approved in
advance in writing by the Village. Prior to the use of any Village water,
persons and/or entities request the use of Village water shall be charged a
non-refundable deposit per day which shall be paid to the Village, plus an
additional deposit for metered water usage which shall be charged at the then
current water rate per 1,000 gallons of water as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, which sum or sums shall be paid by the Village
into the waterworks and sewerage fund. Any amount of water used which is in
excess of the water usage deposit received by the Village shall be the
responsibility of the user to promptly pay to the Village. (Ord. 75-3-1, 3-12-
1975; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-4A-11: TAMPERING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Unlawful To Tamper: It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized
by the village to tamper with, alter or injure any part of the village's
combined waterworks and sanitary sewerage system, or any meter related thereto.
   B.   Persons Authorized To Turn On: No water from the village's water supply
system shall be turned on for service into any premises except by a person
authorized by the mayor, the director of public works, or the village
treasurer, or some other person authorized by one of them to perform this
service.
   C.   Resale Of Water: No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient thereof from the village's water system to any premises other than
that which application has been made for and the meter installed, except in
cases of emergency, and only then as authorized by the village or by the
applicable fire department.
   D.   Tampering With System And Cross Connection Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the village to
tamper with, alter, or damage any part of the village's combined waterworks and
sewerage system, including, but not limited to, any water tower, water well,
well house, pump(s), lift station(s), manhole(s), fire hydrant(s), meter(s),
buffalo box(es), or other system equipment, or other valve(s). Whenever any
meter installed in any premises or buffalo box, or other system equipment has
been damaged, altered or tampered with, the cost of replacement and/or
repairing such equipment shall be a charge upon the person and the premises
responsible for the payment of water and/or sewage recorded by said meter, and
such sums shall become a part of the bill for utility service. Nonpayment
thereof shall be subject to the other applicable provision of this code.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the village to
attach any form of pump directly to any water line, water main or service pipe
for the purpose of increasing the water pressure or to maintain any direct or
indirect interconnection or cross connection between a village water main and
any private well on the property. The director of public works, or his
designee, is authorized at any reasonable hour to inspect any water line,
service pipe, or water main on any premises or within any structure for the
purposes of determining compliance with this section.
   E.   Fire Hydrants: No person shall tamper with any fire hydrant nor shall
any person take water from any fire plug, hydrant, valve, faucet or pipe, or
any other opening connected with the water system of the village, except where
such person has made application for the use of water for such purpose and has
received permission from the village, except in the case of emergencies and
only then when authorized by the village or the applicable fire department.
   F.   Installation Supervision: All service pipes from the village water
mains to the premises to be served shall be installed by and at the cost of the
owner of the property to be served or the applicant for the service, but such
installations shall only be made under the supervision of the director of
public works, or his designee.
   G.   Responsibility/Authority To Repair And/Or Shut Off Facilities:
      1.   All water service pipes from the buffalo box to the building being
served, all sanitary sewer service pipes, except those portions within any
village right of way, and the plumbing systems of buildings shall be the
property of the owner of the premises served and all repairs thereto shall be
the responsibility of the owner. The village shall own and be responsible for
the maintenance of buffalo boxes, water meters, any water service pipes from
the corporation to the buffalo box, and that portion of any sanitary sewer
service pipe within a village right of way, except as otherwise specifically
authorized by this code.
      2.   The village may, in any case it determines to be an emergency,
repair any water service; but shall not be obligated to do so, and, if this is
done, the cost of such repair work shall be paid to the village by the owner of
the premises served. The village may also shut off water or sanitary sewer
service to any premises without notice where the mayor or director of public
works determines that an emergency condition exists, where there is a threat or
potential threat to the public health and safety to the village's combined
waterworks and sewerage system, and/or a threat or potential threat to the
wastewater treatment plant utilized by said system.
   H.   Permit Required For Excavations:
      1.   Excavations for installing water services or repairing the same
shall be made in compliance with the provisions of this code relating to making
excavations in streets.
      2.   No person shall uncover or excavate under or around any water or
sewer main, meter or service line of the village for any purpose whatever
without a written permit as provided in this code. The right is reserved by the
village to deny any such permit for such excavation, and instead require that
such work be accomplished by tunneling or boring, instead of excavation, under
the supervision of the village, at the discretion of the director of public
works or his designee. (Ord. 2012-09-02, 9-16-2012)
5-4A-12: EMERGENCY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to Section
5-4A-4, “Service Billing,” of the Lake Villa Village Code, Village sewer, water
and refuse and recycling customers presently have twenty (20) days from the
date of their bill to pay such bills in full. If such bills are not paid by the
due date, the Village Code provides that a ten percent (10%) late charge per
month shall be added to each such delinquent account. As an emergency interim
provision, from the date of this section through the first bi- monthly utility
billing cycle after June 1, 2021, for past-due accounts where single-family
customer(s) pay, and continue to pay, at least fifty percent (50%) of the
current bill and twenty percent (20%) of any past due balance on such account,
in such circumstances, the Village will temporarily forebear from adding
additional late charges onto any such account and from shutting off or
discontinuing Village utility and/or refuse and recycling service while such
payment targets are being met. The failure of a single-family customer to make
the required partial payment(s) as set forth above will subject such delinquent
account to the late charges and service shut-offs as otherwise required by the
Village Code. This emergency interim provision shall remain in effect through
that first bi-monthly utility billing cycle beginning after June 1, 2021,
unless extended by further action of the Village Board. The foregoing emergency
interim provision shall not affect any utility accounts other than single-
family customers, i.e., commercial, institutional, and/or multi-family accounts
shall be unaffected by this section.
   B.   Beginning with the second bi-monthly utility billing cycle after June
1, 2021, the aforesaid interim emergency provisions of Article A, “Combined
System Charges,” of Chapter 4, “Combined Waterworks and Sewer System
Regulations,” of Title 5, “Public Properties and Utilities,” shall expire, and
the current provisions of said Article A, “Combined System Charges,” of Chapter
4, “Combined Waterworks and Sewer System Regulations,” of Title 5, “Public
Properties and Utilities,” shall automatically resume and shall be in full
force and effect without any further action of the Corporate Authorities of the
Village, unless it is otherwise determined by the Corporate Authorities of this
Village that the provisions set forth herein shall be continued. (Ord. 2020-09-
03, 9-21-2020)
ARTICLE B. SEWER USE RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-4B-1: Definitions
5-4B-2: Administration And Enforcement Of Regulations
5-4B-3: Use Of Public System Required
5-4B-4: Building Sewers, Connections
5-4B-5: Use Restrictions
5-4B-6: Damage To Sewer System
5-4B-7: Inflow
5-4B-7.1: Inflow Defined
5-4B-7.2: Owner Responsible
5-4B-7.3: Inflow Prohibited
5-4B-7.4: Determination
5-4B-7.5: Notification
5-4B-7.6: Service Cutoff
5-4B-7.7: Responsibility For Repair
5-4B-8: Fees
5-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal
coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to provisions of subsection 5-4B-
2B of this article.
INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Any pollutant which is not a "compatible pollutant" as
defined herein.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade, or business as distinct from their employees' wastes or sanitary
conveniences.
NPDES PERMIT: The national pollutant discharge elimination system permit issued
by the United States environmental protection agency in accordance with
sections 402 and 405 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of
1972 (86 statute 816; public law 92-500, 33 USC 1251 et seq.).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface, and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground surface, and storm waters as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL: Is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
STORM DRAIN: Sometimes termed "storm sewer" shall mean a sewer which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The director of public works for the village of Lake Villa who
shall act as the superintendent of sewage works in the village of Lake Villa,
or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 74-9-3, 9-25-1974; amd. Ord. 76-2-1, 2-25-1976; Ord.
2006-07-01, 7-12-2006)
5-4B-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Officers' Right Of Entry, Inspection: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The superintendent or his representatives shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
hereinabove, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by village employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in section 5-4B-5 of this article. The superintendent and other duly authorized
employees of the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   B.   Hearing Board: A hearing board shall be appointed as needed for
arbitration of differences between the superintendent and sewer users on
matters concerning interpretation and execution of the provisions of this
chapter by the superintendent. The cost of the arbitration will be divided
equally between the village and the sewer user. (Ord. 74-9-3, 9-25-1974)
One member of the board shall be a registered professional engineer, one member
shall be a lawyer, and one member shall be a village resident selected at large
for his/her interest in accomplishing the objectives of this chapter. (1983
Code)
   C.   Penalties: Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter except section 5-4B-6 shall be served by the village with written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in
the amount not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the village by
reason of such violation. (Ord. 74-9-3, 9-25-1974)
5-4B-3: USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 74-9-3, 9-25-1974)
   D.   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley, right of way or public utility
easement in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public
sanitary sewer of the village, is hereby required at his expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
said public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') (30.5 meters) of the
property line. (Ord. 76-2-1, 2-25-1976)
5-4B-4: BUILDING SEWERS, CONNECTIONS:
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent. (Ord. 74-9-3,
9-25-1974)
   B.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
      1.   For residential and commercial service.
      2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the superintendent. Fees for the required building sewer permits
and connection inspections shall be as determined by the village board and the
applicable permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the village at the time
the application is filed, plus any engineering fees incurred by the village.
(Ord. 76-2-1, 2-25-1976)
   C.   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   D.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   E.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 74-9-3, 9-25-1974)
   F.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the applicable
requirements of section 5-3-3 of this title. (1983 Code)
   G.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   H.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   I.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent or his representative.
   J.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village. (Ord.
74-9-3, 9-25-1974)
5-4B-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Discharge To Sanitary Sewer: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Discharge To Storm Sewers: Storm water and all other unpolluted
drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as
combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the
superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the superintendent to a storm sewer, combined sewer,
or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Discharge To Public Sewers: Except to the extent that the
other provisions of this chapter are more restrictive, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two milligrams per liter (2 mg/l) as CN in the wastes
as discharged to the public sewer.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five-tenths
(5.5), or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   Harmful Substances: Except to the extent that the other provisions of
this chapter are more restrictive, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if
it appears likely in the opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can
harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream in violation of the effluent limitation of the
NPDES permit, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees (32°) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150°F) (0° and 65°C).
      2.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 horsepower metric) or greater shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent.
      3.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      6.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      7.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five-tenths
(9.5).
      8.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      9.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   Action Of Superintendent: Except to the extent that the other
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive, if any waters or wastes are
discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which waters
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection
D of this section, and which in the judgment of the superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the superintendent may:
      1.   Reject the wastes.
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers.
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing sewer charges under the provisions of subsection
J of this section.
If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   F.   Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors: Except to the extent that the other
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive, grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they
are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
   G.   Preliminary Treatment Facilities: Where preliminary treatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense.
   H.   Control Manhole: When required by the superintendent, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   Sampling; Testing; Analyses: All measurements, tests, and analyses of
the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American
Public Health Association, and also in conformance with 40 CFR part 136, "USEPA
Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures For Analysis Of Pollutants", and shall
be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken
at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs
are determined from periodic grab samples.
   J.   Special Arrangements: No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to
payment therefor, by the industrial concern, in accordance with this chapter,
or any amendments thereto from time to time.
   K.   Industrial Cost Recovery System: Except to the extent that the other
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive, no industrial user may
discharge sewage into any public sewer until the village board of trustees has
adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
      1.   Meets the requirements of section 204(b)(1)(B) of the federal water
pollution control act amendments of 1972 (public law 92-500) and applicable
regulations.
      2.   Has been approved by the appropriate federal and/or state agency in
accordance with the conditions of any grant made to the village by the U.S.
environmental protection agency or by the state for the construction of any
part of the sewer system or sewage treatment works of the village.
   L.   Fats, Oil And Grease Discharge Regulations:
      1.   Grease Interceptor Installation Requirement Criteria: Except as and
only to the extent otherwise specified in subsection L7 of this section, grease
interceptors are required for all facilities used and operated regularly for
the commercial preparation of foods. Businesses requiring grease interceptors
include, but are not limited to, restaurants, cafes, fast food outlets, pizza
outlets, delicatessens, sandwich shops, snack bars, taverns, clubs, societies,
athletic complexes, gas stations, caterers, banquet halls and any other kinds
and types of food vending establishments in which any food preparation
(including heating or defrosting in or by means of any kind of oven or heating
device) takes place on the premises, whether or not such facilities are located
in a separate building or structure or occupied by other businesses, as well as
schools, churches, boarding houses with communal kitchen facilities, nursing
homes, and daycare centers which have kitchens and engage in the preparation of
food.
If there is more than one building in the facility in which food preparation
takes place, each building shall have its own grease interceptor sized as
outlined in the minimum requirements or all buildings may discharge to a single
grease interceptor that has been sized to the criteria for each individual
kitchen.
The exception shall be those facilities granted a variance, after review and
approval from the superintendent. Grease interceptors shall not be required for
private residences or dwellings.
      2.   Grease Interceptor Design Criteria: Each business establishment for
which a grease interceptor is required shall have a dedicated service and
grease interceptor. The design of the grease interceptor shall be in accordance
with the minimum requirements set forth below, and shall have a minimum of two
(2) compartments with fittings designed for grease retention. Minimum
requirements shall be as follows:
         a.   Installation of an outside grease interceptor with a minimum
liquid holding capacity of one thousand (1,000) gallons. (Sandwich bars and
carryout services, which only prepare noncooked foods such as cold sandwiches,
shall install a minimum 400 gallon grease interceptor unless the superintendent
grants a variance.)
         b.   Installation of a four foot (4') diameter inspection/sampling
manhole with an eccentric riser cone, manhole frame, and cover, downstream of
grease interceptor.
         c.   All miscellaneous sinks, slop sinks, floor drains, water wash
hoods, etc., located in the kitchen area shall be plumbed to connect into the
new grease interceptor.
         d.   Prohibited discharge to the grease interceptor includes:
            (1)   All washroom facilities.
            (2)   Food waste grinders.
            (3)   Dishwashing machines.
There shall be an adequate number of manholes to provide access for the
cleaning of all areas of an interceptor; a minimum of one per interceptor
section, and one sampling manhole directly downstream of the interceptor and
prior to the effluent entering the sewer main. Manhole covers shall be gastight
in construction and have a minimum clear opening dimension of twenty one inches
(21") and a frame diameter of twenty four inches (24").
One complete set of plans shall be submitted to both the Lake Villa building
inspector and to the superintendent, and these plans at a minimum shall include
a shop drawing illustrating the mechanical plumbing sections. Additionally, the
plans shall include size, type and location of each interceptor proposed.
The Lake Villa building inspector and the superintendent shall approve these
plans including size, type and location of the interceptor prior to any
construction at the proposed site.
      3.   Grease Interceptor Location: Each grease interceptor shall be
installed and connected such that it is easily accessible at all times for
inspection, cleaning, and the removal of intercepted grease. The grease
interceptor(s) shall be located as close to the source as practical, however,
it must be outside the facility served whenever possible. The Lake Villa
building inspector and the superintendent shall approve the location of any
grease interceptor prior to any construction on the proposed site.
      4.   Inspection Of Grease Interceptors: The Lake Villa department of
public works shall inspect all grease interceptors within the village and
inventory all grease interceptors of properties connected to the village's
sanitary sewer collection system ("the collection system"), and document the
inspections of these grease interceptors. Once all the grease interceptors in
the service area are identified, the grease interceptors shall be classified by
the superintendent into two (2) categories:
         a.   Significant Grease Interceptors: The facilities connected to
these grease interceptors contribute significant amounts of animal/vegetable
fats, oil, grease and/or admissible wastes to the collection system and
treatment facilities and are chronically problematic. These grease interceptors
shall be inspected and documented at a frequency of once every six (6) months
or as deemed necessary.
         b.   Nonsignificant Grease Interceptors: The facilities connected to
these grease interceptors do not contribute significant amounts of animal/
vegetable fats, oil, grease and/or admissible wastes to the collection system
and are not chronically problematic. These grease interceptors shall be
inspected and documented at a frequency of once every twelve (12) months or as
deemed necessary.
      5.   Grease Interceptor Maintenance And Pumping Schedules:
         a.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to maintain, pump,
and clean the grease interceptor and document those activities. All grease
interceptors shall be maintained in proper operating condition. When pumping/
cleaning of the grease interceptor is performed, the entire contents of the
grease interceptor shall be removed, which includes the removal of all
accumulated grease, solids and liquid. The pumping/cleaning of the grease
interceptor shall not result in the discharge of grease into the collection
system. At no time shall any portion of the contents removed from the grease
interceptor be discharged back into the grease interceptor or the sanitary
sewer system. The owner/lessee shall conduct, on a monthly basis, an inspection
of each interceptor. At no time may the accumulated grease and/or solids exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the holding capacity of the grease interceptor.
These inspections and cleanings must be documented and the records kept on site
for a minimum of two (2) years. Records to be kept on site shall include a
maintenance log showing each date of pumping or service and copies of receipts
and manifests describing each pumping or service. Upon request of the
superintendent, all records shall be made available to the superintendent for
his review. All grease and/or solids removed from the grease interceptor must
be properly documented and disposed of by a licensed waste hauler.
         b.   All existing business/industrial users connected to grease
interceptors prior to the implementation of these fats, oil and grease
discharge regulations are required to pump and clean their interceptors at a
minimum frequency of once every thirty (30) days. Inspections and samplings of
grease interceptors by the Lake Villa department of public works shall
determine if this pumping/cleaning frequency is adequate to control the amounts
of fats, oils, grease and/or admissible wastes entering the collection system
or if the pumping/cleaning frequency needs to be adjusted. The superintendent
has the right to increase the pumping and cleaning frequency as deemed
necessary. All requests to reduce the pumping/cleaning frequency must be
submitted to the superintendent, in letter form.
The superintendent must approve any changes to this frequency in writing prior
to any change being made. In addition, the superintendent may require the
business/industrial user to implement best management practices in order to
reduce its discharge to acceptable levels.
         c.   All new, remodeled and/or chronic problem facilities required to
connect to a grease interceptor(s) in accordance with the provisions of these
regulations are required to pump and clean their interceptors once every sixty
(60) days (or every other month). Inspections and samplings of grease
interceptors by the Lake Villa department of public works shall determine if
this pumping/cleaning frequency is adequate to control the amounts of fats,
oils, grease and admissible wastes entering the collection system or if the
pumping/cleaning frequency needs to be adjusted. The superintendent has the
right to increase the pumping and cleaning frequency as deemed necessary. All
requests to reduce the pumping/cleaning frequency must be submitted to the
superintendent, in letter form.
The superintendent must approve any changes to this frequency in writing prior
to any changes being made.
         d.   If deficiencies are found during an inspection performed by the
village, the owner shall have three (3) weeks to bring the facility into
compliance. If the grease interceptor fails a second (consecutive) inspection,
the superintendent shall require the owner to contract with a qualified
contractor to install new or additional equipment to bring the facility into
compliance. This work shall be completed within six (6) months of the date the
village requires such contract to be made. The cost of all work required to
bring the facility into compliance shall be at the owner's expense.
      6.   Biological Treatment: Biological treatment shall not be a substitute
for the complete pumping of the grease interceptor at the frequency described
in these regulations.
      7.   Existing Sources Not Connected To Grease Interceptors: Existing
sources of fats, oil, grease and/or admissible wastes not connected to grease
interceptors, which contribute chronically problematic amounts of fats, oil,
and/or grease will be identified through inspection of the collection system by
the Lake Villa department of public works. Once these sources are identified,
the public works department shall notify the superintendent of their presence.
The superintendent shall in writing require these facilities to implement best
management practices (BMPs) to keep fats, oil, and grease out of the wastewater
collection system. All BMPs must be submitted to the superintendent for review
and approval. Examples of a BMP include:
         a.   Scrape food from plates into garbage cans.
         b.   Prewash plates by spraying them off with cold water over a small
mesh catch basin positioned over a drain. This catch basin should be cleaned
into a garbage can as needed.
         c.   Pour all liquid oil and grease from pots and pans into a waste
grease bucket stored at the pot washing sink. Heavy solids buildup of oil and
grease on pots and pans should be scraped off into a waste grease bucket.
         d.   Other kitchen practices identified by the village of Lake Villa
or the facility, or sanitary district and/or facility which will decrease the
point source discharge of fats, oil, and/or grease.
If the department of public works finds through inspections of the collection
system that the implemented BMPs are not successful at the facility and the
facility continues to contribute significant amounts of fats, oil, grease and/
or admissible wastes to the collection system, the owner will be required to
install a grease interceptor as outlined in these regulations within six (6)
months after being notified.
      8.   Request For Variance: If a facility that is required to install a
grease interceptor finds and documents by a licensed plumber that the facility
cannot meet the minimum requirements for a grease interceptor, that facility
may submit in writing a variance request to the superintendent. This request
must explain the situation which makes the minimum requirement unachievable,
along with an alternative plan for fats, oil and grease and/or admissible waste
reduction. This request must be submitted to the superintendent within thirty
(30) days of the order to install a grease interceptor.
If a facility believes that the pumping/cleaning schedule should be decreased,
the facility must submit in writing a variance request to the superintendent.
This request must include a statement from the grease removal company that the
facility has pumped/cleaned their interceptor. The request must also state the
frequency the facility feels would be adequate.
No changes to any portion of the fats, oil and grease discharge regulations can
be made until the facility receives from the superintendent a written letter
either accepting, accepting with conditions, or denying the variance request.
The facility must abide by the terms specified by the superintendent. (Ord.
2006-07-01, 7-12-2006)
5-4B-6: DAMAGE TO SEWER SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works. (Ord. 2008-05-01, 5-14-2008)
5-4B-7: INFLOW:
5-4B-7.1: INFLOW DEFINED:
For the purposes of this section 5-4B-7, "inflow" shall mean water other than
wastewater that enters a sewerage system (including sewer service connections)
from sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains, yard drains, area drains,
foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross
connections between storm sewers and sanitary sewers, catch basins, cooling
towers, stormwaters, surface runoff, street wash waters, or drainage, and water
other than wastewater that enters the sewerage system from the ground through
such sources as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes. (Ord.
98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-7.2: OWNER RESPONSIBLE:
The owner of private property which is served by the village sanitary sewerage
system is responsible for the integrity and functionality of the service
connection from the private building to and including the connection with the
village sewerage system. It is the responsibility of the owner to install and
maintain the service connection from the private building to the village
sewerage system in such a manner to ensure the service connection does not
permit any inflow into the village sewerage system. (Ord. 98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-7.3: INFLOW PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any stormwater,
groundwater, or any other inflow into the village sewer system through any
sewer pipe or appurtenance which services any building or any other improvement
located on private property and which discharges directly or indirectly into
the village sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-7.4: DETERMINATION:
It shall be the obligation of the property owner whose property is served by
the village sanitary sewer system to provide sufficient access to the property
to enable the village superintendent to perform any necessary testing upon
forty eight (48) hours' prior notice or such lesser notice as is possible in
the event of an emergency. The village superintendent, through the use of
generally accepted testing procedures, shall determine if any sewer connection
from a private building or other private service is causing or permitting water
inflow into the village sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-7.5: NOTIFICATION:
If the village superintendent determines that inflow is occurring, he shall
give written notice to the owner that the inflow must be eliminated by the
owner through repair or replacement of the sewer connection from the building
to the village sanitary sewer or by such other means as are consistent with
sound engineering practices within a date certain, but not less than ninety
(90) days after the date of the notice. The village superintendent shall give
the owner as much time as reasonably possible to eliminate the inflow
commensurate with the severity of inflow but no more than one hundred eighty
(180) days. (Ord. 98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-7.6: SERVICE CUTOFF:
In the event that the owner fails to eliminate the inflow to the reasonable
satisfaction of the village superintendent within the time allowed as specified
in the notice prescribed by section 5-4B-7.5 of this article, then the village
superintendent shall cause the sewer service to the property to be terminated.
(Ord. 98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-7.7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIR:
Any person who damages any village sewer shall be fully responsible for the
cost of the repairs. (Ord. 98-5-4, 5-27-1998)
5-4B-8: FEES:
The fees associated with the fats, oil and grease discharge regulations shall
be as follows:
Any facility that is required to be inspected by the Lake Villa department of
public works pursuant to this article shall be inspected at least once in each
calendar year free of charge, and the fee for each such inspection by the Lake
Villa department of public works thereafter during the same calendar year shall
be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Such inspection(s) by the Lake Villa department of
public works shall in no way change, abrogate, or substitute for any plumbing
inspection(s) or other inspection(s) as required by other applicable provisions
of this code. The above fees may be assessed by the superintendent.
All fines, fees and compliance orders must be paid in full or satisfied before
any new or renewal of any village license application will be approved. The
village has the right to revoke any village license or sewer tap-on permit for
a facility within Lake Villa, which has an outstanding balance or an unresolved
compliance order. If village license renewal occurs within a compliance
schedule, a temporary license may be issued until the final compliance date.
Compliance status shall be reviewed annually, at the time of village license
renewal. All fines, fees and compliance orders must be paid in full or
satisfied before applications will be approved. No village license shall be
issued to a facility with an outstanding balance. (Ord. 2008-05-01, 5-14-2008;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
ARTICLE C. ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-4C-1: Purpose And Intent
5-4C-2: Definitions
5-4C-3: Applicability
5-4C-4: Responsibility For Administration
5-4C-5: Severability
5-4C-6: Ultimate Responsibility
5-4C-7: Discharge Prohibitions
5-4C-8: Suspension Of MS4 Access
5-4C-9: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
5-4C-10: Monitoring Of Discharges
5-4C-11: Requirement To Present, Control And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
Use Of Best Management Practices
5-4C-12: Watercourse Protection
5-4C-13: Notification Of Spills
5-4C-14: Enforcement
5-4C-15: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
5-4C-16: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
5-4C-17: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
5-4C-18: Injunctive Relief
5-4C-19: Compensatory Action
5-4C-20: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
5-4C-21: Remedies Not Exclusive
5-4C-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents of the village through the regulation of nonstormwater
discharges to the village's storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law and establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this article are:
   A.   To regulate the introduction of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this article.
(Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-2: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The director of public works of the village, or
his designee.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
five (5) acres or more. NPDES stormwater phase II permits will be required for
construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such
activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavating, and demolition.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS: The department of public works of the village of
Lake Villa, Illinois.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The director of public works of the village of Lake
Villa, Illinois, or his designee.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in section 5-4C-7 of this article.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Either of the following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as defined
in 40 CFR, section 122.26(b)(14).
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage system, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains,
pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or
altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-3: APPLICABILITY:
This article shall apply to all water entering the village's storm drain system
generated on any developed and/or undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted
by an authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The director of public works shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of
public works to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in
the employ of the authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this article are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this article or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
article. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-6: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this article are
minimum standards; therefore, this article does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-
2009)
5-4C-7: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct, or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as
described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this article: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of the
test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the federal environmental
protection agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connection to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-8: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
director of public works may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge:
      1.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this article may
have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
      2.   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this article, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-9: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
director of public works prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4. (Ord.
2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-10: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The director of public works, or his designee, shall be permitted to
enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this article as often
as may be necessary to determine compliance with this article. If a discharger
has security measures in force which require proper identification and
clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the
necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the director of public works, or his
designee, ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      3.   The director of public works, or his designee, shall have the right
to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the
opinion of the authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
      4.   The director of public works, or his designee, has the right to
require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The
facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the director of public works, or his
designee, and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be
borne by the operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the director of public works, or his
designee, access to a permitted facility is a violation of a stormwater
discharge permit and of this article. A person who is the operator of a
facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the authorized
enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized or required by this article.
      7.   If the director of public works, or his designee, has been refused
access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he
or she is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as
part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance
with this article or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized
enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-11: REQUIREMENT TO PRESENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The director of public works, or his designee, will adopt requirements
identifying best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility
which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the
storm drain system, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a
commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense,
reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or
other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the
use of these structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible
for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit
discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional
structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of
pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable,
shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs
shall be part of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for
compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-12: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-13: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the director of public works, or his designee,
within three (3) business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of
prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. (Ord.
2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-14: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the director of public works, or his
designee, finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a
requirement of this article, the authorized enforcement agency may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator and any charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-15: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
director of public works, or his designee, as the authorized enforcement
agency. The notice of appeal must be received within fifteen (15) days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the mayor of the
village, or his designee, shall take place within fifteen (15) days from the
date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the mayor of the
village, or his designee, shall be final. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-16: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within thirty (30)
days of the decision of the mayor of the village upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall be authorized to and shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent, or person in possession of any premises to refuse to
allow the director of public works, or his designee, or the designated
contractor of the department of public works to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-17: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within fifteen (15) days. If the amount due is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the mayor of the village, or his
designee, or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the
charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to the
village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-18: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this article. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this article, the authorized enforcement
agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
person from activities which would create further violations or compelling the
person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 2009-02-03,
2-11-2009)
5-4C-19: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
article, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-20: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
article is a threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
5-4C-21: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies. (Ord. 2009-02-03, 2-11-2009)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Use Allowed
5-5-2: Permit Required
5-5-3: Inspection
5-5-4: Regulations, Compliance Required
5-5-5: Sanitation Requirement
5-5-6: Change To Public Sewer Required
5-5-1: USE ALLOWED:
Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions
of section 5-4B-3 of this title, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 74-9-3, 9-25-1974)
5-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the superintendent. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the village,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as are deemed necessary by the superintendent. Fees for the
required permit and inspection shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, plus any engineering fees incurred by the village.
(Ord. 76-2-1, 9-25-1974; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-5-3: INSPECTION:
The operation and use of a private sewage disposal system shall not be
permitted until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy
two (72) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent. (Ord. 76-2-1, 9-
25-1974)
5-5-4: REGULATIONS, COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of U.S. public health service publication
no. 526, titled "Manual of Septic-Tank Practice" and/or state of Illinois
department of public health circular titled "Septic Tanks", whichever is more
restrictive. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet (1,858 square meters). No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet. (Ord.
74-10-1, 10-9-1974)
No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the building commissioner. (Ord.
74-9-3, 9-25-74; amd. 1983 Code)
5-5-5: SANITATION REQUIREMENT:
The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities in
a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village. (Ord. 74-9-3, 9-
25-1974)
5-5-6: CHANGE TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in section 5-4B-3D of this title, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be connected to
said sewer within ninety (90) days and the private sewage disposal system shall
be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or dirt. (Ord. 74-9-
3, 9-25-1974)
CHAPTER 6
WATER WELL CODE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Code Adopted
5-6-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The rules and regulations as set forth in the Illinois water well construction
code of 1978, as amended from time to time are hereby adopted by reference, as
fully as if the same were set forth herein verbatim. Three (3) copies of said
code shall be and remain on file in the office of the village clerk, pursuant
to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2. (Ord. 79-12-1, 12-
12-1979; amd. 1983 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
SECTION:
5-7-1: Installation Of Backflow Prevention Devices
5-7-2: Private Water Supply Systems
5-7-3: Inspections And Maintenance
5-7-4: Administrative Fee
5-7-5: Right Of Entry For Inspection
5-7-6: Surveys And Investigations
5-7-7: Discontinuance Of Water Service For Noncompliance
5-7-8: Cleanup Of Water Supply System
5-7-1: INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
All plumbing installed within the village of Lake Villa shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code. If in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code or in the judgment of the village of Lake Villa, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the village shall give notice to the water customer to install
such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall promptly, at his
own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection
agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the
Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency, and local
regulations. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016)
5-7-2: PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established, or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of the village of Lake Villa enters or may enter the supply or distribution
system of the village of Lake Villa, unless such private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the village and the Illinois environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016)
5-7-3: INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which a
backflow prevention device required by this section is installed to have the
backflow device inspected, tested, maintained and repaired in accordance with
the following schedule or as specified in the manufacturer's manual if the
manual provides for more frequent inspections, testing or maintenance:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer,
and required service performed within five (5) days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
IEPA as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in writing
prior to being put into operation.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Service performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer within five (5) days provided that if the device cannot be repaired or
replaced within five (5) days because of unavailability of parts, materials or
labor, it shall be repaired or replaced as soon thereafter as possible.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
village of Lake Villa. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016)
5-7-4: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
   A.   The annual fee for certification of required cross connection control
devices is as follows:
      1.   Administrative fee: Fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
5-7-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
   A.   The village shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village of Lake Villa for the purpose of verifying the presence
or absence of cross connections, and the village shall have the right to enter,
at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the public water
supply or distribution system of the village of Lake Villa for the purpose of
verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross
connection control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees, or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the village any information which they
may request regarding the piping system or systems, or water use on such
property. Inspections for cross connections shall be performed by a licensed
plumber who has completed IEPA approved specific training in cross connection
control prevention and is approved to test backflow prevention devices and
assemblies. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016)
5-7-6: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the village of Lake Villa to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two (2) years, or as often as the village shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016)
5-7-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
   A.   The village of Lake Villa will discontinue, after reasonable notice to
the occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection
in violation of the provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take
such other precautionary measures as they may deem necessary to eliminate any
danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water
service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and
until a reconnection fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code is paid to the village of Lake Villa. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the village concludes
that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the village of
Lake Villa or the Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply. The village shall not be liable to any customer for any
injury, damages, or lost revenues which may result from termination of said
customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether
or not said termination was with or without notice. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-
2016; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-7-8: CLEANUP OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
   A.   The person responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must pay to the Village
all costs incurred by the Village for the cleanup of the potable water supply
system. (Ord. 2016-04-03, 4-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 7A
WELL ABANDONMENT
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Purpose
5-7A-2: Wells Prohibited
5-7A-3: Amortization Of Existing Uses
5-7A-4: Right Of Entry; Inspection
5-7A-5: Discontinuance Of Water Service For Noncompliance
5-7A-6: Cross Connection Exception
5-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the water quality of the village
potable water system and to further ensure the financial integrity of the
village potable water system. (Ord. 99-1-2, 1-27-1999)
5-7A-2: WELLS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to have a well designed to furnish well water on any
property where the principal building obtains potable water from the village
potable water system. If a well were used to serve the principal building prior
to the village water system having been connected to it, then, in that event,
the well shall be promptly abandoned and decommissioned in accordance with all
applicable laws so that the well is no longer functional or capable of
providing water to the principal structure or for any other purpose. (Ord. 99-
1-2, 1-27-1999)
5-7A-3: AMORTIZATION OF EXISTING USES:
For any principal structure which is connected with the village water system
and which has a functioning well on the property as of January 27, 1999, said
well may continue to be used until February 1, 2004, at which time it shall be
abandoned and decommissioned as provided in section 5-7A-2 of this chapter, and
further provided that at no time shall the well be used to provide potable
water to the principal building nor be cross connected or otherwise connected,
directly or indirectly, to the village potable water system in any manner.
(Ord. 99-1-2, 1-27-1999)
5-7A-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION:
The superintendent of public works shall have the right to enter, at any
reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying the presence
or absence of a well or cross connections, and that the superintendent of
public works, or his authorized agents, shall have the right to enter, at any
reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the superintendent of public works any information
which he may request regarding the piping system or systems, or water use on
such property. (Ord. 99-1-2, 1-27-1999)
5-7A-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE FOR NONCOMPLIANCE:
The superintendent of public works of the village is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
potable water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of
the provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and until a
reconnection fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code is paid to the village. The owner shall also be
responsible for all costs incurred by the village to assure the integrity of
the potable water system and conformity with village standards such as
chlorination, decontamination, testing, or any other expenses deemed necessary
by the superintendent of public works. Immediate disconnection with verbal
notice can be effected when the superintendent of public works concludes that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be
effected to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the
public water supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the
superintendent of public works or the Illinois environmental protection agency,
such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply. Neither the village, the superintendent
of public works, nor his agents or assigns, shall be liable to any customer for
any injury, damages, or lost revenues which may result from termination of said
customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this chapter, whether
or not said termination was with or without notice. (Ord. 99-1-2, 1-27-1999;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-7A-6: CROSS CONNECTION EXCEPTION:
Cross connection shall be permitted when specifically authorized in writing by
the superintendent of public works after he finds such cross connection shall
not imperil the potable water system and is otherwise desirable to the village.
(Ord. 99-1-2, 1-27-1999)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
 
CHAPTER 9
UTILITY RELOCATION
SECTION:
5-9-1: Utility Relocation
5-9-1: UTILITY RELOCATION:
Upon receiving at least thirty (30) days' notice from the village, each public
utility shall, at its own expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate,
change or alter the position of any utility facilities in public ways or public
property whenever the village shall have determined that such removal,
relocation, change or alteration: a) is reasonably necessary for the
construction, repair, maintenance, improvement or use of such public ways or
public property; b) is reasonably necessary for the location, construction,
replacement, maintenance, improvement or use of other property of the village;
or c) is reasonably necessary for the operations of the village. Each public
utility will not be responsible for the expense of removals, relocations,
changes or alterations required by the village primarily for the purpose of
assisting either private projects or a municipal electric utility. The time for
compliance with the notice shall be increased commensurate with each day that
the public utility cannot perform work on the project due to circumstances
beyond its reasonable control, as determined by the village engineer. (Ord. 97-
5-1, 5-14-1997)
CHAPTER 10
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
5-10-1: Purpose And Scope
5-10-2: Definitions
5-10-3: Annual Registration Required
5-10-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
5-10-5: Action On Permit Applications
5-10-6: Effect Of Permit
5-10-7: Revised Permit Drawings
5-10-8: Insurance
5-10-9: Indemnification
5-10-10: Security
5-10-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
5-10-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
5-10-13: General Construction Standards
5-10-14: Traffic Control
5-10-15: Location Of Facilities
5-10-16: Construction Methods And Materials
5-10-17: Vegetation Control
5-10-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
5-10-19: Cleanup And Restoration
5-10-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
5-10-21: Variances
5-10-22: Small Wireless Facilities
5-10-22-1: Purpose And Scope
5-10-22-2: Definitions
5-10-22-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
5-10-22-4: Application Fees
5-10-22-5: Exceptions To Applicability
5-10-22-6: Existing Agreements Grandfathered For Existing Locations, If Any
5-10-22-7: Annual Recurring Rate
5-10-22-8: Aerial Facilities
5-10-22-9: Abandonment
5-10-22-10: Indemnification
5-10-22-11: Insurance
5-10-23: Penalties
5-10-24: Enforcement
5-10-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the Village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the Village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the Village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the Village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the Village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the Village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the Village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the Village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The Village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the Village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in one of the following authoritative sources, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise, and to the extent of any inconsistency among them, the
first named source which is applicable shall control: a) part 1 of title 47
USC; b) 47 USC, 151, et seq.; c) the FCC Order of September 26, 2018; d)
section 10 of Illinois Public Act 100-0585, the "Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act"; or e) in 92 Illinois Administrative Code section 530.30.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that operates from a fixed location and
transmits or receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of
any type of wireless communications services and any commingled information
services.
ANTENNA EQUIPMENT: Any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources,
shelters or cabinets associated with an antenna, located at the same general
fixed location as the antenna and, when collocated on or adjacent to a
structure, is mounted or installed at approximately the same time as such
antenna.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter, including but not
limited to any person or entity submitting an application to install small
wireless facilities or structures to support the facilities within a Village
right-of-way or within any other right-of-way within the Village.
APPLICATION: A written submission to the Village requesting authorization for
the deployment of a facility at a specified location.
AUTHORIZATION: Any approval that the Village must issue under applicable law
prior to the deployment of a facility, including, but not limited to, any
required zoning approvals and one or more building permits at a specified
location.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non- recoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Village of Lake Villa Village Code, as amended from time to time.
COLLOCATE: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless
facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or on or adjacent to
a utility pole.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of- way lines of a
right-of-way.
DEPLOYMENT: Deployment means placement, construction, and/or modification of a
facility.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The Village Administrator, or the Village officer,
employee or agent(s) designated by the Village Administrator to administer,
enforce, and/or interpret the provisions of this chapter.
ENGINEER: An engineer employed by or engaged by the Village, as designated by
the Mayor, or his or her designee, to assist and consult with the enforcement
official.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used as
part of or in order to facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FCC ORDER OF SEPTEMBER 26, 2018:   FCC Order dated September 26, 2018 in FCC WT
Docket no. 17-79 and WC Docket no. 17-84.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or safety
of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the environment,
including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or
petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological) agents, flammables,
corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or toxic under any
Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and Video
Competition Law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation of plantings, shrubbery, bushes and other
foliage at grade which is intended to screen a facility or the base of a
facility from public view.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower designed and
used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of- way.
OTHER RIGHT(S)-OF-WAY: Any public right(s)-of-way other than a Village right-
of-way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: An entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PRIVATE LINE: A dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer
that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications
channel, or a group of those channels, from one or more specified locations to
one or more other specified locations.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above any street,
alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or
vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, in which a public entity has the
right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities
or entities other than its own. Such phrase shall not include any real or
personal Village property that is not specifically described in the previous
sentence or buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, including
but not limited to Municipal aerial lines, regardless of whether they are
situated in the right-of-way. (Sometimes referred to as "right- of-way" or
"rights-of-way".)
PUBLIC SAFETY USE: Communication facilities utilized by a functional division
of the Federal government or of the State, a unit of local government, or a
Special Purpose District located in whole or in part within this State, that
provides or has authority to provide firefighting, police, ambulance, medical,
or other emergency services to respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SMTCT: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, that being 35 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 636/5-1, et seq.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section 5-10-10 of
this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY OR FACILITIES: A personal wireless telecommunications
facility consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly
or as part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited
defined area and generally will be a single-service provider installation.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY SYSTEM (Also Known As A DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM
(DAS)): A type of personal wireless telecommunication facility consisting of a
network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected to a common source via a
transport medium that provides wireless service within a geographic area and
often, but not always, will serve multiple carriers.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
STRUCTURE: A pole, tower, base station, or other building, whether or not it
has an existing antenna facility, that is used or to be used for the provision
of personal wireless service (whether on its own or commingled with other types
of services). Also referred to in this chapter as a "wireless support
structure".
TELECOMMUNICATIONS:
   A.   This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities.
   B.   "Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
   C.   "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who
originates or terminates the end to end communications.
   D.   "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services
through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47
USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole, an alternative
antenna structure, or a Village-owned infrastructure. Except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the requirements for a tower and associated antenna
facilities shall be those requirements set forth in title 10, chapter 6,
article C, "Communication Towers", of this Code.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or any similar function.
UTILITY POLE, EXISTING: Any utility pole installed on or before June 1, 2018.
UTILITY POLE, NEW: Any utility pole installed after June 1, 2018.
UTILITY POLE, VILLAGE: A utility pole owned or controlled by the Village
located on and/or within a public Village right-of-way, or on or within any
other public right-of-way.
VARIANCE OR VARIATION: A grant of relief from specific provisions of this Code
and/or of the Village of Lake Villa zoning regulations by an ordinance approved
by the Corporate Authorities of the Village. Also sometimes referred to as a
"waiver" or "exception".
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The Village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The Village of Lake Villa Village Engineer, or his or her
designee.
VILLAGE FACILITIES: Any road(s), alley(s), paved surface(s), traffic control
device(s), water service(s), sanitary sewer service(s), stormwater service(s),
and their appurtenances in Village rights-of-way, or a utility pole owned or
controlled by the Village.
VILLAGE-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure located within a Village right-of-
way or within any other right-of-way within the corporate limits of the
Village, including, but not limited to, streetlights, traffic signals, towers,
utility pole(s), or structures, including the surface of the Village right-of-
way owned, operated, controlled, or maintained by the Village.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: All property owned by and/or under the maintenance
jurisdiction of the Village.
VILLAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or
waterway, dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
other similar purposes, including Village utility easements, in which the
Village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the Village. "Right-of-way" or
"rights-of-way" shall not include any real or personal Village property that is
not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not include
Village buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether or not they are situated in a Village right-of-way.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities, including a portion or portion(s) of a public right-of-way not
intended for vehicular use, but not including a utility pole.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE, VILLAGE: A wireless support structure owned or
controlled by the Village.
ZONING ORDINANCE (Also, ZONING REGULATIONS): The Village of Lake Villa zoning
regulations as amended from time to time as set forth in title 10, "Zoning
Regulations", of this Code. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to
7-1-2018)
5-10-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the enforcement official, providing the utility's
name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of
one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection
with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of- way and a
twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in section 5-10-8 of this chapter, in the form of a
certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility in, on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, within or through
any Village right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2)
adds a new facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter),
or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility
in, on, over, above, along, under, across, within, or through the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the enforcement official and obtaining
a permit from the Village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the Village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section 5-10-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section 5-
10-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section 5-10-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the Village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, or by the Illinois Simplified Telecommunications Tax Act 1 ,
or by section
5-10-22, "Small Wireless Facilities", of this chapter, all applications for
permits pursuant to this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-06-
01, 6-13-2018, eff. 7-1-2018; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1, et seq.
5-10-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the enforcement
official within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the enforcement official shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the enforcement official is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the enforcement official shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
enforcement official, that the construction proposed under the application
shall be in full compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The enforcement
official shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the facility
may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the enforcement official fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section 5-10-4 of this chapter the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an application for a
permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section 5-10-21 of this chapter.
If the village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee shall
either remove the facility from the right of way or modify the facility so that
it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans therefor. (Ord.
2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village's Enforcement Official of such intent
to cancel or not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the enforcement official of said notice,
and in no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the
utility shall obtain and furnish to the enforcement official evidence of
replacement insurance policies meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
(Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be as determined
by the Village Administrator from time to time, which amount shall be
sufficient to provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of
way to at least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction
under the permit, as determined by the enforcement official, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village
Administrator may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2007-11-01,
11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-10-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2007-11-
01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the enforcement official shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the enforcement official shall state which standard or principle
will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section 5-10-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the enforcement official determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way, or other public place.
      2.   All freestanding facilities located within a right of way shall be
located underground to the greatest extent possible, as determined by the
enforcement official, or his or her designee, and to the extent that the
enforcement official, or his or her designee determines that it is not
technically possible to install any such facilities underground, such
facilities shall be substantially screened from view by landscaping pursuant to
a landscaping plan which shall be approved in advance by the enforcement
official, or his or her designee.
      3.   All freestanding facilities within any right of way shall be so
located so as to cause only the minimum possible interference with the use of
such right of way and so as to cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin said right of way. No freestanding facilities shall be placed within any
right of way in such a manner to interfere with the usual travel on such right
of way, nor shall such facilities limit the visibility of vehicular and/or
pedestrian traffic within such right of way.
      4.   The owner of any freestanding facility shall, at its expense,
promptly comply with the reasonable requests of the enforcement official, or
his or her designee, with respect to the location and screening of such
facilities within any right of way, including, but not limited to, with respect
to any future relocation of such facilities.
      5.   If and when facilities are permitted to be installed overhead
pursuant to the foregoing regulations, such overhead facilities shall only
utilize existing poles.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, existing self-
supporting armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of
conductors and cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used
wherever practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
      4.   Where aboveground facilities are permitted in any right of way, such
facilities shall be so located so as to cause only the minimum possible
interference with the use of such right of way and so as to cause only the
minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of way. When permitted, no
aboveground facilities shall be placed in any right of way in such a manner to
interfere with the usual travel on such right of way, nor shall such facilities
limit the visibility of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic within such right
of way.
      5.   The owner of any facilities shall, at its expense, promptly comply
with the reasonable requests of the enforcement official, or his or her
designee, with respect to the location and, if aboveground, the screening of
such facilities within any right of way, including, but not limited to, with
respect to any future relocation of such facilities.
      6.   Where aboveground facilities are permitted in any right of way, the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner for the particular application shall
be used.
      7.   If and when facilities are permitted to be installed overhead
pursuant to the foregoing regulations, such overhead facilities shall only
utilize existing poles.
      8.   For purposes of this chapter, a facility shall be considered
"underground" if its highest elevation is at or below the ground level, and a
facility shall be considered "overhead" if it is attached above the ground to a
utility pole.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2007-
11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
enforcement official from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking
shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or
jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or
jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly
marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the enforcement official.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the enforcement official, the utility, at its expense, shall remove
any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place
and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk,
curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the enforcement
official.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section 5-10-21 of this chapter, the following requirements
shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the enforcement official.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communications lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the enforcement official. With the approval of the
enforcement official, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in
place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances
shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the enforcement official.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the enforcement official when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
shall be those otherwise set forth in this code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2007-
11-01, 11-14-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
5-10-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the enforcement official that such spraying is the only practicable method
of vegetation control. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the enforcement
official determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the enforcement official. Such cleanup and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
enforcement official for good cause shown. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
enforcement official or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the Village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the Village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of- way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the enforcement
official as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each
provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons
why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The enforcement official shall decide
whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified
in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The enforcement official may
authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the enforcement official may require the utility
requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or
may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the
enforcement official under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right
to appeal to the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The Village
Board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007)
5-10-22: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
5-10-22-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act: This section is adopted
pursuant to Public Act 100-0585, the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act
("the Act"), pursuant to which the Village regulates and charges for small
wireless facilities as and to the extent permitted by the Act, and pursuant to
the FCC Order of September 26, 2018.
   B.   Savings Clause: To the extent permitted by any decisions of a court of
competent jurisdiction, any provisions of the Act and/or of the FCC Order of
September 26, 2018, and any corresponding provisions of this section 5-10-22,
which are exclusively dependent upon such provisions of the Act and/or of the
FCC Order of September 26, 2018 for authority, shall be and are automatically
suspended, pending final decision on any such issue upon appellate review.
   C.   Purpose: The purpose of this section 5-10-22 is to establish
regulations, and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on public rights-of-way within the Village, or outside public
rights-of-way on private property zoned by the Village exclusively for
commercial or industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act and/
or the FCC Order of September 26, 2018.
   D.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations are inconsistent with the requirements of
this section 5-10-22, the wireless services provider shall comply with the more
restrictive requirements. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to 7-
1-2018)
5-10-22-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms used in this section 5-10-22 have the meaning provided in section 5-
10-2, "Definitions", of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff.
retroactive to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: A small wireless facility shall be classified as a
permitted use and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection B3 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zone, or 2) outside of rights-of-way on property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use, and 3) if such wireless facility meets both
of the following qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure
of no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna
that has exposed elements, the antenna, excluding associated antenna equipment
as defined in this chapter, could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more
than three (3) cubic feet in volume; and b) all other wireless equipment
attached directly to or installed adjacent to a utility pole, or other support
structure, including pre- existing equipment, associated with the facility is,
in the aggregate, no more than twenty eight (28) cubic feet in volume.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant is required to obtain one or more permits
to collocate a small wireless facility. An application is received and
processed, and permits are issued subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Public Safety Use Space Reservation: The Village does hereby reserve
space on all Village utility poles and Village wireless support structures for
future public safety uses, and funds shall be and are hereby tentatively
appropriated or budgeted for such purposes, but a reservation of space will not
preclude the collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village
reasonably determines that the Village utility pole or Village wireless support
structure cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Application Requirements: A wireless services provider shall be
required to provide the following information to the enforcement official when
seeking a permit to collocate small wireless facilities on or adjacent to a
Village utility pole or on or adjacent to a Village wireless support structure,
or any public right-of-way within the Village:
         a.   Site-specific structural integrity for such Village utility pole
and/or for other Village wireless support structure, and a make-ready analysis
prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is defined in section 4 of the
Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with subsection B4,
"Other Requirements", of this section to the best of the applicant's knowledge;
and
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide to the enforcement official legally competent
written evidence of the consent of the owner of such pole to the proposed
collocation.
      3.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
within the Village shall be limited as follows:
         a.   Each small wireless facility shall be mounted on structures fifty
feet (50') or less in height, including their antennas;
         b.   Each small wireless facility shall be mounted on structures no
more than ten percent (10%) taller than other adjacent structures; or
         c.   Each small wireless facility shall not extend beyond existing
structures on which they are located to a height of more than fifty feet (50')
or by more than ten percent (10%), whichever is greater.
      4.   Other Requirements:
         a.   A wireless services provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications as determined by the enforcement
official.
Wireless services providers shall not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference shall be determined by the enforcement official and
measured in accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations
addressing unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other
spectrum licensed by a public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
services provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, or by the enforcement official, the wireless services
provider, at its own expense, shall take all reasonable steps necessary, as
determined by the enforcement official, to correct and eliminate the
interference, including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless
facility and later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent
testing, if necessary.
The enforcement official may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
if such small wireless facility causes interference and if the wireless
services provider is not making a good faith effort to remedy the problem in a
manner consistent with the abatement and resolution procedures for interference
with public safety spectrum established by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970
through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR 90.675, and/or other
applicable FCC standards, or if after such good faith efforts, the enforcement
official concludes that such interference cannot be resolved. Failure to remedy
the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
         b.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with requirements
that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a private property owner
that concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
         c.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with all applicable
spacing requirements in this Code concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the Village rights-of-way, if any.
         d.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with the provisions
of this Code concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval, but an applicant may apply to the enforcement
official for one or more exceptions to such undergrounding requirements, and,
in any event, the installation of replacement poles is not prohibited.
         e.   A wireless services provider shall comply with this section and
such other applicable provisions of this Code adopted by the Village from time
to time for construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but
not limited to, wiring and cabling requirements, grounding requirements,
utility pole extension requirements, and signage limitations, and the
requirements of this chapter regulating the location, size, and height of small
wireless facilities, related to the abandonment and removal of small wireless
facilities.
         f.   A wireless services provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on or adjacent to Village utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless services
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subsection B4f, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
         g.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with all generally
applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to those that
relate to public safety, except to the extent expressly preempted in this
chapter.
         h.   Each wireless services provider shall comply with written design
standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements which may be
adopted by the Corporate Authorities of this Village from time to time as an
appendix to this section, chapter, and title, which may include restrictions
relative to design and/or concealment measures in a Historic District or
historic landmark, but such design and/or concealment measures shall not have
the effect of prohibiting any of a wireless services provider's technology and
shall not be considered part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the
determining height and/or volume restrictions on a small wireless facility.
The Corporate Authorities of the Village, after receiving a specific
recommendation from the enforcement official, may by ordinance grant an
exception and/or waiver from the requirements of this section and/or of this
chapter, which shall be based upon good cause shown by an applicant which shall
include unique circumstances or undue hardship in the application of this
section and/or of this chapter in a specific case or cases, and subject to the
other provisions of this Code, and subject to the other applicable ordinances
of the Village. Such waiver(s) and/or exception(s) are not prohibited by this
chapter.
         i.   To be considered a small wireless facility, such facility shall
not require antenna structure registration under 47 USC part 17.
         j.   A small wireless facility shall not result in human exposure to
radio frequency radiation in excess of the applicable safety standards
specified in section 47 USC 1.1307(b).
      5.   Completeness Of Application: Within ten (10) days after receiving an
application, the Village's enforcement official will determine whether the
application is complete and notify the applicant. If an application is
incomplete, the enforcement official will provide a notice of deficiency to the
applicant specifically identifying the missing information. An application will
be deemed complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the
applicant within ten (10) days after when all documents, information, and fees
specifically enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted
by the applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines will be tolled from the time the Village sends the notice
of deficiency until the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      6.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on or
adjacent to an existing utility pole or on or adjacent to a wireless support
structure will be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis. The first fully-
completed application received by the enforcement official shall have priority
over incomplete applications received from other applicants for collocation on
the same utility pole or wireless support structure. Such a fully-completed
application will be deemed approved if the enforcement official fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days of the enforcement
official's receipt of such application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the enforcement official in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
seventy five (75) days after the submission to the enforcement official of a
fully-completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission to the enforcement official of the complete application or the 10th
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the enforcement
official. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
enforcement official's denial of the permit request within the specific
approved time limits as provided above in this section.
         b.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole will be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved only if the enforcement official
fails to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the enforcement official in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit will be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the enforcement official. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude such enforcement official's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this section.
         c.   The enforcement official will approve an application unless the
application does not meet the requirements of this section.
If the enforcement official determines that applicable provisions of this Code
which relate to the public safety, or the provisions of this section require
that a utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before the
requested collocation, approval may be conditioned upon the replacement of the
utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of the applicant.
The enforcement official will document the basis for a denial, including the
specific provisions of this Code or application conditions on which the denial
was based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
enforcement official denies an application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the enforcement official
and resubmit the revised application to the enforcement official once within
thirty (30) days after notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying
an additional application fee. The enforcement official will approve or deny
the revised application within thirty (30) days after the applicant resubmits
the application or it is deemed approved.
However, the applicant shall notify the enforcement official in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the resubmitted application.
Any subsequent review will be limited to the deficiencies cited by the
enforcement official in the denial. However, this revised application cure does
not apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
      7.   Tolling: The "deemed approved" time period for applications may be
further tolled by:
         a.   The express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the
enforcement official; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes a delay in approval by the Village.
      8.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate two (2)
or more small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village may
file with the Village a consolidated application for the proposed facilities,
and upon review and approval of said application by the enforcement official,
the Village will issue a single permit therefor upon the applicant's payment to
the Village of all required fee(s) therefor as specified from time to time in
section 5-10-22-4 of this section 5-10-22.
If an application for collocation of multiple small wireless facilities is
denied in part by the enforcement official and/or the application is determined
to be incomplete in any way, the enforcement official may remove from the
application any small wireless facility collocations which are denied and/or
for which incomplete information has been provided and treat separately any
remaining requests for small wireless facility collocations. In such event, the
enforcement official may require separate applications and separate application
fees for each collocation that is reviewed and/or approved separately from a
consolidated application.
      9.   Timely Village Review Of Applications:
         a.   Timely Review Required: If the enforcement official fails to act
on an application on or before the "shot clock" date for the application, as
defined in subsection B9e of this section, it will be presumed that the Village
did not act within a reasonable period of time.
         b.   Shot Clock Period: The shot clock period for an application is
the sum of:
            (1)   The maximum number of days allowed for the review ("maximum
reasonable review period") for the specific type of application, pursuant to
subsection B9c of this section, plus
            (2)   The number of days of the tolling period, if any, pursuant to
subsection B9d of this section.
         c.   Maximum Reasonable Review Periods For Specific Types Of
Application:
            (1)   Applications seeking permits and other authorization for
deployments of facilities in the categories set forth below:
               (A)   Review of an application to collocate a small wireless
facility on or adjacent to an existing structure: A sixty (60) day review
period shall be considered a reasonable review period.
               (B)   Review of an application to collocate a facility other
than a small wireless facility on or adjacent to an existing structure: A
ninety (90) day review period shall be considered a reasonable review period.
               (C)   Review of an application to deploy a small wireless
facility using a new structure: A ninety (90) day review period shall be
considered a reasonable review period.
               (D)   Review of an application to deploy a facility other than a
small wireless facility using a new structure: A one hundred fifty (150) day
review period shall be considered a reasonable review period.
            (2)   Batching:
               (A)   If a single application seeks authorization for multiple
deployments, all of which fall within a category set forth in either subsection
B9c(1)(A) or B9c(1)(C) of this section, then the maximum reasonable review
period for the application as a whole shall be equal to that for a single
deployment within that category.
               (B)   If a single application seeks authorization for multiple
deployments, the components of which are a mix of deployments that fall within
subsection B9c(1)(A) of this section and deployments that fall within
subsection B9c(1)(C) of this section, then the reasonable review period for the
application as a whole shall be ninety (90) days.
               (C)   The Village will accept applications for multiple
deployments under subsection B9c(2)(A) or B9c(2)(B) of this section.
         d.   Tolling Period For Determining Maximum Reasonable Review Period:
Unless a written agreement between the applicant and the enforcement official
provides otherwise, the tolling period for determining the maximum reasonable
review period of an application for deployment (if any) is as set forth below:
            (1)   For an initial application to deploy small wireless
facilities, if the enforcement official notifies the applicant on or before the
10th day after submission that the application is materially incomplete, and
clearly and specifically identifies the missing documents or information (a
"notice of deficiency") and the specific rule or regulation creating the
obligation to submit such documents or information, the shot clock date
calculation shall restart at zero (0) on the date on which the applicant
submits all the documents and information identified by the Village in the
notice of deficiency to render the application complete.
            (2)   For all other initial applications, the tolling period shall
be the number of days from:
               (A)   The day after the date when the enforcement official
notifies the applicant in writing that the application is materially incomplete
and clearly and specifically identifies the missing documents or information
that the applicant must submit to render the application complete and the
specific rule or regulation creating this obligation (a "notice of
deficiency"), until
               (B)   The date when the applicant submits all the documents and
information identified by the enforcement official in the notice of deficiency
to render the application complete,
               (C)   But only if the notice of deficiency pursuant to
subsection B9d(2)(A) of this section is effectuated on or before the 30th day
after the date when the application was submitted; or
            (3)   For resubmitted applications following a notice of
deficiency, the tolling period shall be the number of days from:
               (A)   The day after the date when the enforcement official
notifies the applicant in writing that the applicant's supplemental submission
was not sufficient to render the application complete and clearly and
specifically identifies the missing documents or information that need to be
submitted based on the enforcement official's initial notice of deficiency
(i.e., original request under subsection B9d(1) or B9d(2) of this section),
until
               (B)   The date when the applicant submits all the documents and
information identified by the enforcement official in the initial notice of
deficiency to render the application complete,
               (C)   But only if the notice of deficiency pursuant to
subsection B9d(3)(A) of this section is effectuated on or before the 10th day
after the date when the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response
to the enforcement official's initial notice of deficiency (i.e., the
enforcement official's request under subsection B9d(1) or B9d(2) of this
section).
         e.   Shot Clock Date: The shot clock date for an application is
determined by counting forward, beginning on the day after the date when the
application was submitted, by the number of calendar days of the shot clock
period identified pursuant to subsection B9b of this section and including any
pre-application period identified by the enforcement official, provided that if
the date calculated in this manner is a Saturday or a Sunday, or a legal
holiday, the shot clock date is the next business day after such date.
The enforcement official will use a reasonable effort to approve or deny an
application within the shot clock period.
      10.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted by the enforcement official shall be completed within one hundred
eighty (180) days after issuance of the permit therefor, unless the enforcement
official agrees to extend this period for good cause shown or a delay is caused
by events including but not limited to make-ready work for a Village utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless services provider has made a timely request within sixty
(60) days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul
services, and the additional time to complete installation does not exceed a
total of three hundred sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit by the
enforcement official. Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the
enforcement official grants an extension in writing to the applicant for good
cause shown.
      11.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit issued by the
enforcement official shall be for a period of not less than five (5) years, and
the permit will be renewed for equivalent durations unless the Village makes a
finding that the small wireless facilities provider has failed to comply with
any of the applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to the
payment of any fee(s) and/or the required "annual recurring rate", and/or the
small wireless facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply
with the applicable provisions of this Code, including but not limited to the
provisions of this chapter, but otherwise collocation of small wireless
facilities and/or renewals of permits shall remain subject to the applicable
provisions of this Code, as amended from time to time, and/or in effect at the
time of renewal.
      12.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices by personal delivery to the
enforcement official, or as otherwise required by the Village.
The enforcement official may require that applications for permits, supporting
information, and notices be submitted by personal delivery to the enforcement
official at the Village Hall, by regular mail postmarked on the date due, or by
any other commonly used means, including electronic mail, or overnight carrier.
      13.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after the
Village has approved a permit to collocate a small wireless facility on or
adjacent to a Village utility pole, and prior to an applicant commencing
installation of any small wireless facilities on or adjacent to any Village
utility pole, the Village and the applicant may enter into a Master Pole
Attachment Agreement provided by the Village for the initial collocation on a
Village utility pole by the applicant. For subsequent approved permits to
collocate a small wireless facility on a Village utility pole, the Village and
the applicant may enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-4: APPLICATION FEES:
Applicants shall be required to pay the following application fees to the
Village at the time of the filing of the application with the enforcement
official:
   A.   An application fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, for an application to collocate up to five (5)
separate small wireless facilities on or adjacent to an existing utility pole
or on or adjacent to a wireless support structure within any public right-of-
way or on or adjacent to any Village utility pole or on or adjacent to any
Village wireless support structure.
   B.   An application fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each small wireless facility addressed in an
application to collocate more than five (5) separate small wireless facilities
on or adjacent to existing utility poles or on or adjacent to a wireless
support structure within any public right-of-way or on or adjacent to any
Village utility pole within the Village or on or adjacent to any Village
wireless support structure.
   C.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or this Code,
applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the required
application fee(s).
   D.   The Village will not require an application, approval, or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider and/
or any wireless services provider authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      1.   Routine maintenance;
      2.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless services
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of this section; or
      3.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement
of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
   E.   The Village may require separate permit(s) or approval(s) to work
within public rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or
require lane closures. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to 7-1-
2018; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-10-22-5: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
Nothing in this section or in the Act and/or in the FCC Order of September 26,
2018 authorizes a person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
   A.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   B.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, except for
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   C.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this section do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed, and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this section. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-6: EXISTING AGREEMENTS GRANDFATHERED FOR EXISTING LOCATIONS, IF ANY:
Agreements between the Village and wireless services providers that relate to
the collocation of small wireless facilities in a right-of-way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility poles and/or on any
other Village wireless support structure(s), that are in effect on June 1,
2018, if any, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated on
the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to and approved
by the Village before June 1, 2018, if any, subject to applicable termination
provisions of such agreements. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive
to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-7: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
   A.   For each small wireless facility located on or adjacent to a Village
utility pole or on or adjacent to a Village wireless support structure located
in a right-of- way the respective small wireless facility provider shall be
required to pay to the Village on or before January 1 of each year, for each
respective fiscal year, an "annual recurring rate" in as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each such small wireless facility located
within the Village, unless such fee is hereafter modified by a final order of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Collocation on Village utility poles located outside of a public right-
of- way shall not be permitted. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive
to 7-1-2018; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-10-22-8: AERIAL FACILITIES:
For Village utility poles that support aerial facilities used to provide
communications services or other utility service(s), wireless services
providers shall comply with the process for make-ready work under 47 USC 224
and its implementing regulations. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff.
retroactive to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-9: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of such
facility is and shall be required to promptly remove the small wireless
facility within ninety (90) days after receipt of written notice from the
Village notifying the owner of the abandonment.
The notice will be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the owner
of the respective small wireless facility. If the small wireless facility is
not removed within ninety (90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or
cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment
agreement for Village utility poles or through whatever actions are provided
for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery,
including but not limited to removal of such small wireless facility(ies) at
the sole cost and expense of the respective owner, which shall become a debt
owed by such owner to the Village.
A wireless services provider shall be required to provide written notice to the
Village if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village. Such notice shall include the name,
address, and contact information of the new wireless services provider. (Ord.
2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-10: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless services provider shall indemnify and hold the Village, its elected
and appointed officials, officers, employees, and agents ("indemnitees")
harmless from and against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or
property damage resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use
or occupancy of any Village improvements or Village right-of- way associated
with such improvements by the wireless services provider or its employees,
agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and privileges granted under
this section, PA 100-0585, and/or pursuant to FCC Order of September 26, 2018
provided, however, a wireless services provider has no obligation to indemnify
or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused
by the sole negligence of the Village or the other indemnitees. A wireless
services provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against the
Village with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however
caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff.
retroactive to 7-1-2018)
5-10-22-11: INSURANCE:
Each wireless services provider making application to the Village for a permit
for the collocation of a small wireless facility shall carry, at the wireless
services provider's own cost and expense, the following insurance: a) property
insurance for its property's replacement cost against all risks; b) workers'
compensation insurance, as required by Illinois law; and c) commercial general
liability insurance with respect to its activities on any Village improvements
or Village rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits consistent with
the Village's requirements of other users of Village improvements or rights-of-
way, as set forth in section 5-10-8 of this chapter.
A wireless services provider shall be required to include the Village and its
officers, employees, and agents (the "indemnitees") as additional insureds on
the commercial general liability policy and provide a certificate of insurance
evidencing inclusion of such commercial general liability coverage. All such
insurance coverage shall be required to be in full force and effect during the
entire term of any collocation agreement with the Village. If there is a
potential loss of coverage, the small wireless services provider shall give
notice thereof to the enforcement official not less than thirty (30) days prior
to any such loss of coverage. (Ord. 2018-12-01, 12-12-2018, eff. retroactive to
7-1-2018)
5-10-23: PENALTIES:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, any person
convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and each day a violation has existed or continues
to exist shall be a separate offense.
   B.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. There may be times when the Village will incur
delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will
not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the
utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested
action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the Village's costs of damages
and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing
the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency
or commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it. (Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-06-01, 6-13-
2018, eff. 7-1-2018; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
5-10-24: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-11-01, 11-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2018-06-01, 6-13-2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
CHAPTER 11
DETENTION PONDS AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Areas Regulated
5-11-2: Exception
5-11-3: Nonconforming Areas To Be Corrected
5-11-1: AREAS REGULATED:
In all areas which are designated as detention ponds, detention easements, or
drainage easements on any recorded plat of subdivision or planned unit
development plat and any such other areas of which the village is a grantee, it
shall be unlawful to install, erect, or maintain any structure or impervious
surface such as, but not limited to, asphalt, concrete, or gravel, thereon,
except for drainage improvements, which are part of the approved plans and
specifications for said subdivision or planned unit development. (Ord. 98-5-2,
5-27-1998)
5-11-2: EXCEPTION:
This chapter shall not preclude normal and customary landscaping of detention
pond, detention easement, or drainage easement areas, provided that any such
landscaping, including, but not limited to, sowing and maintenance of grass,
shall not impede the drainage functions of these areas. Fences are also
permitted provided that they do not impede drainage. (Ord. 98-5-2, 5-27-1998)
5-11-3: NONCONFORMING AREAS TO BE CORRECTED:
Any detention pond, detention easement, or drainage easement area, which does
not conform with the requirements of this chapter, shall be brought into
compliance with this chapter within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 98-5-2, 5-27-1998)
CHAPTER 12
UTILITY EASEMENTS
SECTION:
5-12-1: Approval
5-12-1: APPROVAL:
Notwithstanding any permit or approval issued by the village, no person(s)
shall install any improvements (other than landscaping) or do any work within
any recorded utility easement unless such person(s) has received the approval
in writing from all those utility companies, including, where applicable, the
village, that are using or have a right to utilize such utility easement,
unless such person(s) is an official, employee, agent, or contractor of one of
such utility companies or the village. Such written approval(s) shall be
submitted to the village as a condition of the issuance of any such permit by
the village for any such work or improvement within any such recorded utility
easement. (Ord. 2005-08-02, 8-10-2005)
CHAPTER 13
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
5-13-1: Definitions
5-13-2: Aggregation Of Electrical Load
5-13-3: Opt Out Program
5-13-4: Adoption Of Plan Of Operation And Governance
5-13-5: Solicitation Of Bids
5-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ACT: The Illinois power agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3855/1-92, as
may be amended from time to time.
CUSTOMER: Recipients of residential and small commercial retail electric loads
as provided in the act.
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM: A program pursuant to the act for the
aggregation of residential and small commercial retail electric loads located
within the corporate limits of the village that provides customers with the
opportunity to opt out of participating in that program as provided in the act.
(Ord. 2012-04-02, 4-11-2012)
5-13-2: AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village are authorized to operate an
electricity aggregation program pursuant to the act and for that purpose may
solicit bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate the sale and
purchase of electricity and related services and equipment for those loads
aggregated pursuant to the electricity aggregation program as provided in the
act.
   B.   The corporate authorities of the village may exercise the authority to
operate the electricity aggregation program jointly with any other municipality
or county and, in combination with two (2) or more municipalities or counties,
may initiate a process to jointly authorize the electricity aggregation program
by a majority vote of each particular municipality or county as required by the
act. (Ord. 2012-04-02, 4-11-2012)
5-13-3: OPT OUT PROGRAM:
   A.   The electricity aggregation program shall operate as an opt out program
whereby customers who do not wish to participate in the electricity aggregation
program may opt out pursuant to the act.
   B.   The mayor, or his designee, on behalf of the village, shall fully
inform residential customers and small commercial retail customers of the
village in advance, as provided in the act, that customers have the right to
opt out of the village electricity aggregation program. The disclosure provided
to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the act and shall
prominently state all charges for electricity service to be made and shall
include full disclosure of the cost to obtain service pursuant to section 16-
103 of the public utilities act 1 , how to access service, and the fact that
service under section 16-103 of the public utilities act is available to
customers without penalty if they are currently receiving service under section
16-103 of the public utilities act.
   C.   Upon notification from any customer that the customer wishes to opt out
of the electricity aggregation program, that customer shall be excluded from
the electricity aggregation program.
   D.   Except for those customers who opt out of the electricity aggregation
program pursuant to this section and the act, the electricity aggregation
program shall automatically apply for each person owning, occupying,
controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to be aggregated in
the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 2012-04-02, 4-11-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
5-13-4: ADOPTION OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE:
   A.   The corporate authorities of the village, with the assistance from the
Illinois power agency as required pursuant to the act, shall develop and
approve a plan of operation and governance for the electricity aggregation
program.
   B.   Before adopting the plan of operation and governance required under
this section and the act, the corporate authorities shall hold at least two (2)
public hearings on the proposed plan. Before the first public hearing, the
corporate authorities shall publish notice of the hearings once a week for two
(2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. The
notice shall summarize the plan of operation and governance and state the date,
time, and location of each hearing.
   C.   The plan of operation and governance for the village's electricity
aggregation program shall:
      1.   Provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers
and equitable treatment of applicable residential customers,
      2.   Describe demand management and energy efficiency services to be
provided to each class of customers, and
      3.   Meet any requirements established by law concerning aggregated
service offered pursuant to the act. (Ord. 2012-04-02, 4-11-2012)
5-13-5: SOLICITATION OF BIDS:
The process for soliciting bids for electricity and other related services and
awarding proposed agreements for the purchase of electricity and other related
services for the electricity aggregation program shall be conducted pursuant to
the act. (Ord. 2012-04-02, 4-11-2012)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created
6-1-2: Chief Of Police
6-1-3: Policemen, General Provisions
6-1-4: Reserved
6-1-5: Rules And Regulations
6-1-6: Hiring Standards For Part Time Police Officers
6-1-7: Hours And Assignments For Part Time Police Officers
6-1-8: Discipline Of Part Time Police Officers
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby continued, created and established an executive department of
the village to be known as the police department. The police department may
consist of one chief of police, deputy chief (if one is appointed), one
lieutenant, one sergeant and three (3) patrolmen and such other patrolmen and
special patrolmen and policemen and watchmen and employees as may be provided
from time to time by the board of trustees 1 . (Ord. 80-11-1, 11-24-1980; amd.
Ord. 2002-01-01, 1-9-2002)
   A.   Appointments: All full time patrol officers (policemen), with the
exception of the chief of police, shall be appointed by the board of police
commissioners. All other members of the police department, including the chief
of police, shall be appointed by the mayor with the consent of the village
board of trustees.
   B.   Rank: The chief of police shall be the head of the police department
and shall have supervision over all officers and members thereof. Following him
in rank shall be the deputy chief (if one is appointed), lieutenant, sergeant
and patrolmen, in order of seniority in each group. If a member of the
department is appointed chief of police prior to being eligible to retire on
pension, he shall be considered as on furlough from the rank he held
immediately prior to his appointment as chief. If he resigns as chief or is
discharged as chief prior to attaining eligibility to retire on pension, he
shall revert to and be established in whatever rank he held prior to being
appointed chief, except for any intervening previously appointed positions, and
thereafter be entitled to all the benefits and emoluments of that rank, without
regard as to whether a vacancy then exists in that rank. (Ord. 2004-11-01, 11-
10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. For village employee personnel policies and regulations, see title 1,
  chapter 6, article B of this code.
6-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Chief Executive Officer Of Department: The chief of police shall be
subject to the orders of the mayor and village board of trustees, and shall be
the chief executive officer of the police department.
   B.   Powers And Duties: He shall devote his whole time to the duties of this
office, see that all laws and ordinances of the village are enforced, and
promptly execute all orders and observe all rules and regulations set forth
and/or adopted by the mayor and village board of trustees.
      1.   General Enforcement Authority: He shall be charged with the
enforcement of all laws and ordinances of the village relating to the public
peace, health and safety and shall cooperate with other officials of the
village in the enforcement of all ordinances of the village. He shall cause
nuisances to be removed, preserve peace and order at elections and provide an
adequate police force at every public assembly of citizens.
      2.   Police Department Authority: He shall have supervision over all
members of the department, be responsible for the proper management and conduct
of the department and shall assign members of the department for duties, detail
members to special duties and shall have charge and custody of all property
pertaining thereto.
      3.   Police Department Regulations: He is empowered to make reasonable
rules and regulations relating to routine work of the department which are
consistent with the ordinances of the village and not in conflict with the
rules and regulations of the mayor and village board of trustees.
      4.   Reports: He shall make an annual report to the village board of
trustees showing the work carried on by the department during the preceding
year in such detail as may be required by the village board of trustees with
suggestions and recommendations for the improvement of police service.
      5.   Communications: He shall have charge and custody of all
communication systems used or required for the operation of the police
department.
      6.   Records Of Arrests: He shall keep or cause to be kept a record of
all arrests made in conformity with the best possible police record system.
      7.   Traffic Control: He shall keep records of all traffic violations or
accidents and other accidents resulting in a loss of or damage or injury to
persons or property and shall supervise traffic control devices.
      8.   Property Custodian: He shall have the custody of and be responsible
for all lost, abandoned or stolen property recovered in the village and dispose
of the same as provided by law. (Ord. 80-11-1, 11-24-1980)
      9.   Deputy Chief: A deputy chief may be appointed by the chief of the
police. The deputy chief position shall be an exempt rank immediately below
that of chief. The deputy chief may be appointed from any rank of sworn, full
time officers of the police department, but must have at least five (5) years
of full time service as a police officer with the department. The deputy chief
shall serve at the discretion of the chief and, if removed from that position,
shall revert to the rank held immediately prior to appointment to the deputy
chief position. (Ord. 2002-01-01, 1-9-2002)
6-1-3: POLICEMEN, GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Supervision: Other members of the police department shall perform such
duties as may be assigned to them by the chief of police and under the
supervision of the chief of police. It shall be the duty of every member to
conduct himself in a proper and lawful manner, at all times, and to avoid the
use of unnecessary force.
   B.   Conduct, Discipline: It shall be the duty of every member of the police
department to conduct himself in a proper and law abiding manner and to avoid
the use of unnecessary force. He shall not behave in any manner which is a
discredit to the police department or in any way be guilty of conduct
unbecoming a police officer. He shall promptly obey all lawful orders from his
superiors and maintain his uniform, equipment and person in a neat and orderly
condition. He shall pay his debts promptly and not be seen in the company of or
associated with persons of doubtful or questionable character. He shall obey
and abide by the laws and regulations set forth by the chief of police and the
mayor and village board of trustees. In the performance of his duty, he must
maintain decorum and attention, command of temper, patience and discretion. He
must at all times refrain from harsh, violent, coarse, profane or insolent
language, and at the same time, when required, act with firmness and sufficient
energy to perform his duty. Drinking intoxicating liquor while on duty by any
member of the police department is expressly forbidden.
   C.   Powers And Duties: The police department shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinances and laws in full force and effect in the village,
and with the prevention of crimes and offenses 1  and the apprehension of law
violators. Every member of the police department is hereby declared to be a
conservator of the peace and shall have the powers granted by law to such
conservators of the peace.
      1.   Warrants: All warrants for the violation of any ordinance of the
village or the state criminal law, to whomsoever directed, may be served and
executed within the limits of the village, by any member of the police
department. For this purpose, members of the police department shall have the
common law statutory 2  powers of the chief of police.
      2.   Right Of Entry: Members of the police department shall have power
and authority in a peaceable and quiet manner to enter any house, building or
on any premises in the village in which the police reasonably expect to find
therein, any person who is there for any unlawful purpose. If any person shall
be found therein, guilty of any crime, misdemeanor or violating any provision
of this code for the preservation of peace and good order of the village, or
who may reasonably be suspected thereof, or shall be aiding and abetting such
persons so doing, he shall apprehend and keep in custody such person, as in
cases of other arrests.
   D.   Witness Fees: Every member of the police department shall appear as a
witness whenever this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of a
village ordinance or any state or federal law, but no such member shall receive
any witness fee for such service in any action or suit to which the village is
a party. All fees, if any are due for such services, shall as paid, be turned
over to the village treasurer. (Ord. 80-11-1, 11-24-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title for offenses; criminal code.
2 1. 730 ILCS 110/11.
6-1-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2012-05-02, 5-9-2012)
6-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The rules and regulations of the village of Lake Villa police department dated
January 12, 2000, which are on file with the village clerk, are hereby adopted
and approved. (Ord. 2000-1-2, 1-12-2000)
6-1-6: HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   All police officers employed by the village, other than those officers
who shall be employed on a full time basis, shall be qualified to enter and
successfully complete any training mandated by the Illinois law enforcement
training standards board. Part time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and
requirements of the ILETSB.
   B.   Any person employed as a part time police officer must meet the
following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
   C.   The aforesaid hiring standards, particularly with respect to part time
police officers employed by the village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois,
shall be submitted to the Illinois law enforcement training standards board, as
required by statute. (Ord. 2012-05-02, 5-9-2012)
 
Notes
1 2. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
6-1-7: HOURS AND ASSIGNMENTS FOR PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   The number of hours a part time officer may work within a calendar year
is restricted.
   B.   Part time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct
full time police officers. (Ord. 2012-05-02, 5-9-2012)
6-1-8: DISCIPLINE OF PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
Part time police officers shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction of the
chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the discretion of the
corporate authorities of the village and shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the corporate authorities of the village
at any time. Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules
and general orders of the police department. (Ord. 2012-05-02, 5-9-2012)
CHAPTER 2
CRIMINAL CODE, OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Disturbing The Peace, Noise
6-2-2: Bodily Harm
6-2-3: Offenses Involving Property
6-2-4: Gambling
6-2-5: Interference With Public Officers
6-2-6: Disorderly Conduct
6-2-7: Loitering
6-2-8: Minors, Offenses Involving
6-2-9: Sex Offenses
6-2-10: Firearms
6-2-11: Possession, Use And/Or Delivery Of Cannabis And/Or Other Illegal
Substances
6-2-12: Inchoate Offenses
6-2-13: Delivery And Possession Of Alcohol
6-2-14: Tobacco Products And Alternative Nicotine Products
6-2-15: Possession Or Discharge Of Fireworks Prohibited
6-2-16: Public Intoxication
6-2-17: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-18: Consumption Or Possession Of Alcohol On Public Property
6-2-19: Truancy
6-2-20: Social Hosting Regulations
6-2-21: Penalty
6-2-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE, NOISE:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the term "person" is any person,
firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization of any
kind.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others within the limits of the village. The following acts
among others are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in
violation of this section, but said enumerations shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, namely:
      1.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar, or other vehicle on any street
or public place at the village except as a danger warning; the creation by
means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and
the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of
time; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason
held up.
      2.   Radios, Phonographs: The using, operating or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio, television, stereo, musical instrument or
other machine or device for the production or reproducing of sound in such
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room or immediate area in
which such device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The
operation of any such device at any time in such a manner as to be plainly
audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') from the building structure or
vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
      3.   Loudspeakers And Amplifiers For Advertising: The using, operating or
permitting to be used, played or operated of any television, radio, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets
for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the
public to any building or structure. (Ord. 73-3-4, 3-19-1973)
6-2-2: BODILY HARM:
   A.   Assault: A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he
engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving
a battery.
   B.   Battery: A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly
without legal justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual, or
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   C.   Reckless Conduct:
      1.   A person commits reckless conduct when he or she, by any means
lawful or unlawful recklessly performs an act or acts that cause bodily harm to
or endanger his or her safety or the safety of another person.
      2.   A person is reckless or acts recklessly, when he or she consciously
disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or
that a result will follow and such disregard constitutes a gross deviation from
the standard of care which a reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
      3.   It shall be unlawful and prohibited by this section for any person
to commit reckless conduct.
   D.   Intimidation: A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause
another to perform or to omit the performance of any act, he communicates to
another a threat to perform without lawful authority any of the following acts:
      1.   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person
or on property, or
      2.   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint, or
      3.   Commit any criminal offense, or
      4.   Accuse any person of an offense, or
      5.   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule, or
      6.   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything, or
withhold official action, or cause such action, or cause such action or
withholding, or
      7.   Bring about or continue a strike, boycott or other collective
action. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977; amd. Ord. 2020-09-02, 9-21-2020)
6-2-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY:
   A.   Property: As used in this section "property" means anything of value.
Property includes real estate, money, commercial instruments, admission or
transportation tickets, written instruments representing or embodying rights
concerning anything of value, labor or services, or otherwise of value to the
owner; things growing on, affixed to, or found on land, or part of or affixed
to any building, electricity, gas and water; birds, animals and fish, which
ordinarily are kept in a state of confinement, food and drink; samples,
cultures, microorganisms, specimens, records, recordings, documents,
blueprints, drawings, maps, and whole or partial copies, descriptions,
photographs, prototypes or models thereof which constitute, represent,
evidence, reflect or record a secret scientific, technical, merchandising,
production or management, information, design, process, procedure, formula,
invention, or improvement.
   B.   Owner: As used in this section, "owner" means a person, other than the
offender, who has possession of or any other interest in the property involved,
even though such interest or possession is unlawful, and without whose consent
the offender has no authority to exert control over the property.
   C.   Permanent Deprivation: As used in this section, to "permanently
deprive" means to:
      Defeat all recovery of the property by the owner; or
      Deprive the owner permanently of the beneficial use of the property; or
      Retain the property with intent to restore it to the owner only if the
owner purchases or leases it back, or pays a reward or other compensation for
its return; or
      Sell, give, pledge, or otherwise transfer any interest in the property or
subject it to the claim of a person other than the owner.
   D.   Deception: As used in this section, "deception" means knowingly to:
      Create or confirm another's impression which is false and which the
offender does not believe to be true; or
      Fail to correct a false impression which the offender previously has
created or confirmed; or
      Prevent another from acquiring information pertinent to the disposition
of the property involved; or
      Sell, or otherwise transfer or encumber property, failing to disclose a
lien, adverse claim, or other legal impediment to the enjoyment of the
property, whether such impediment is or is not valid, or is or is not a matter
of official record; or
      Promise performance which the offender does not intend to perform or
knows will not be performed. Failure to perform standing alone is not evidence
that the offender did not intend to perform.
   E.   Threat: As used in this section, "threat" means a menace, however
communicated, to:
      Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or on
property; or
      Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
      Commit any criminal offense; or
      Accuse any person of a criminal offense; or
      Expose any person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule; or
      Harm the credit or business repute of any person; or
      Reveal any information sought to be concealed by the person threatened;
or
      Take action as an official against anyone or anything, or withhold
official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
      Bring about or continue a strike, boycott, or other similar collective
action if the property is not demanded or received for the benefit of the group
which he purports to represent; or
      Testify or provide information or withhold testimony or information with
respect to another's legal claim or defense; or
      Inflict any other harm which would not benefit the offender.
   F.   Stolen Property: As used in this section, "stolen property" means
property over which control has been obtained by theft.
   G.   Obtain: As used in this section, "obtain" means:
      In relation to property, to bring about a transfer of interest or
possession, whether to the offender or to another; or
      In relation to labor or services, to secure the performance thereof.
   H.   Obtains Control: As used in this section, the phrase "obtains or exerts
control" over property, includes, but is not limited to, the taking, carrying
away, or the sale, conveyance, or transfer of title to, or interest in, or
possession of property.
   I.   Value: As used in this section, the "value" of property consisting of
any commercial instrument, of any written instrument representing or embodying
rights concerning anything of value, labor, or services or otherwise of value
to the owner shall be:
      The "market value" of such instrument if such instrument is negotiable
and has a market value; and
      The "actual value" of such instrument if such instrument is not
negotiable or is otherwise without a market value. For the purpose of
establishing such "actual value", the interest of any owner or owners entitled
to part or all of the property represented by such instrument, by reason of
such instrument, may be shown, even if another "owner" may be named in the
complaint, information or indictment.
   J.   Financial Institution: As used in this section, "financial institution"
means a bank, insurance company, credit union, savings and loan association,
investment trust or other depository of money or medium of savings or
collective investment.
   K.   Theft:
      1.   Person Committing Theft Knowingly: A person commits theft when he
knowingly:
         Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
         Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
         Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
         Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen; and:
         a.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
         b.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
         c.   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment will probably deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
      2.   Prima Facie Evidence-Theft By Lessee: It shall be prima facie
evidence that a person "knowingly obtains or exerts unauthorized control over
property of the owner" when a lessee of the personal property of another fails
to return it to the owner within thirty (30) days after written demand from the
owner for its return. A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the
leasing agreement, addressed and mailed, by registered mail, to the lessee at
the address given by him and shown on the leasing agreement shall constitute
proper demand.
      3.   Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property: A person who obtains control over
lost or mislaid property commits theft when he:
         Knows or learns the identity of the owner or knows, or is aware of, or
learns of a reasonable method of identifying the owner; and
         Fails to take reasonable measures to restore the property to the
owner; and
         Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use of or benefit of
the property.
      4.   Theft Of Labor Or Services Or Use Of Property: A person commits
theft when he obtains the temporary use of property, labor or services of
another which are available only for hire, by means of threat or deception or
knowing that such use is without the consent of the person providing the
property, labor or services.
         A person commits theft when after renting or leasing a motor vehicle
under an agreement in writing which provides for the return of the vehicle to a
particular place at a particular time, he fails to return the vehicle to said
place within the specified time, and is thereafter served with a written
demand, or upon whom oral demand is thereafter personally made, to return said
vehicle within seventy two (72) hours from the time of the service or personal
communication of such demand, and who fails to return said vehicle to any place
of business of the lessor within said period, shall be punishable accordingly.
      5.   Offender's Interest In The Property: It is no defense to a charge of
theft of property that the offender has an interest therein, when the owner
also has an interest to which the offender is not entitled.
         Where the property involved is that of the offender's spouse, no
prosecution for theft may be maintained unless the parties were living in
separate abodes at the time of the alleged theft.
   L.   Deceptive Practices: A person commits a deceptive practice when, with
intent to defraud:
      1.   He causes another, by deception or threat to execute a document
disposing of property or a document by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred; or
      2.   Being an officer, manager or other person participating in the
direction of a financial institution, he knowingly receives or permits the
receipt of a deposit or other investment, knowing that the institution is
insolvent; or
      3.   He knowingly makes, or directs another to make a false or deceptive
statement addressed to the public for the purpose of promoting the sale of
property or services; or
      4.   With intent to obtain control over property or to pay for property,
labor or services of another he issues or delivers a check or other order upon
a real or fictitious depository for the payment of money, knowing that it will
not be paid by the depository. Failure to have sufficient funds or credit with
the depository when the check or other order is issued or delivered is prima
facie evidence that the offender knows that it will not be paid by the
depository; or
      5.   He obtains or attempts to obtain property, labor or services by any
of the following means:
         a.   He uses a credit card which was issued to another, without the
other's consent.
         b.   He uses a credit card knowing that it has been revoked or
canceled.
         c.   He uses a credit card knowing that it has been falsely made,
counterfeit or altered in any material respect.
         d.   He uses the pretended number or description of a fictitious card.
         e.   He uses a credit card which he knows has expired, provided that
the credit card clearly indicates the expiration date.
      6.   He uses a credit card which is lost, stolen, counterfeit,
fictitious, falsified, altered, wrongfully appropriated, canceled or revoked as
authority or identification to cash or attempt to cash or otherwise negotiate
or transfer or attempt to negotiate or transfer a check or other order, which
said negotiation or transfer or attempt to negotiate or transfer would
constitute a crime under this subsection.
      7.   He steals, takes or removes a credit card from the person or
possession of the cardholder, or, who retains or secretes a credit card without
the consent of the cardholder, with the intent of using, delivering,
circulating or selling or causing said card to be used, delivered, circulated
or sold without the consent of the cardholder.
      8.   He has in his possession or under his control or receives from
another person any forged, altered, counterfeited, fictitious, lost or stolen
credit card with the intent to use, deliver, circulate, or sell the same, or to
permit or cause or procure the same to be used, delivered, circulated or sold,
knowing the same to be forged, altered, counterfeited, fictitious, lost or
stolen, or has or keeps in his possession any blank or unfinished credit card
made in the form or similitude of any credit card, with such intent.
      9.   He has in his possession, or under his control, or receives from
another person a credit card, with the intent to circulate or sell the same, or
to permit or cause or procure the same to be used, delivered, circulated or
sold, knowing such possession, control or receipt to be without the consent of
the cardholder or issuer.
      10.   He delivers, circulates or sells a credit card which was obtained
or is held by such person under circumstances which would constitute a crime
under subsection L7, L8, or L9 of this section, or permits or causes or
procures the same to be used, delivered, circulated or sold, knowing the same
to be obtained or held under circumstances which would constitute a crime under
subsection L7, L8, or L9 of this section.
      11.   Definitions:
            CANCELED OR REVOKED CREDIT CARD: A credit card the permissive use
of which has been terminated by the issuer thereof by written notice sent by
registered or certified mail or by telegram addressed to the person to whom
such card was issued at his last known address. Such notification shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the cancellation or revocation of the credit
card.
            CARDHOLDER: Any person to whom a credit card has been issued or
given, or in possession of a credit card with the consent of the person to whom
the credit card was issued.
            CREDIT CARD: Any card, plate, coupon book, or other credit device,
or a number or other identifying description thereof, issued for the purpose of
obtaining property, labor or services on credit or in deferred installments.
            FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: A bank, insurance company, credit union,
savings and loan association, investment trust or other depository of money or
medium of savings or collective investment.
   M.   Forgery: A person commits forgery when, with intent to defraud, he
knowingly:
      1.   Makes or alters any document apparently capable of defrauding
another in such manner that it purports to have been made by another or at
another time, or with different provisions, or by authority of one who did not
give such authority; or
      2.   Issues or delivers such document knowing it to have been thus made
or altered; or
      3.   Possesses, with intent to issue or deliver, any such document
knowing it to have been thus made or altered.
   An intent to defraud means an intention to cause another to assume, create,
transfer, alter or terminate any right, obligation or power with reference to
any person or property may be created, transferred, altered, or terminated.
   N.   Arson: A person commits arson when, by means of fire or explosives, he
knowingly:
         Damages any real property, or any personal property having a value of
fifty dollars ($50.00) or more, of another without his consent; or
         With intent to defraud an insurer, damages any property or any
personal property having a value of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more. Property
"of another" means a building or other property, whether real or personal, in
which a person other than the offender has an interest which the offender has
no authority to defeat or impair, even though the offender may also have an
interest in the building or property.
   O.   Criminal Damage To Property: Whoever commits any of the following shall
be guilty of criminal damage to property:
      1.   Knowingly damages any property of another without his consent; or
      2.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his consent;
or
      3.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another; or
      4.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his consent;
or
      5.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another,
without his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby intends to interfere with the use of another of the land or building.
   P.   Criminal Trespass To Vehicles: Whoever knowingly and without authority
enters any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another
without his consent shall be guilty of criminal trespass to vehicles.
   Q.   Criminal Trespass To Land:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to enter upon the land or any part thereof of
another, after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the
owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or remain upon the land of
another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart.
      2.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection Q1 of this section if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such
land or the forbidden part thereof. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
6-2-4: GAMBLING:
   A.   Person Commits Gambling: A person commits gambling when he:
      1.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of value,
unless excepted in subsection B of this section; or
      2.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or any political
nomination, appointment or election; or
      3.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device; or
      4.   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the course of a bet or
wager; or
      5.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
      6.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket to share for any lottery; or
      7.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document, or
other similar device; or
      8.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts, points or
publishes any lottery ticket or share, device, or any advertisement of any
lottery or policy game; or
      9.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means, or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information, except that nothing in this subsection prohibits
transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting of
sporting events or contests.
   B.   Exceptions: Participants in any of the following activities shall not
be convicted of gambling:
      1.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance; and
      2.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants in
any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest; and
      3.   Pari-mutuel betting or lottery or any game of chance as authorized
by the law of this state; and
      4.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; and
      5.   The game commonly known as "bingo", when conducted in accordance
with "an act making lawful the conducting of bingo by certain nonprofit
organizations, requiring licensing and prescribing regulations therefor".
      6.   Raffles duly licensed by the village pursuant to title 3, chapter 16
of this code.
   C.   Definitions:
   GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machine or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A gambling device does
not include:
         A coin in the slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property.
         Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
   LOTTERY: Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name.
   POLICY GAME: Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   D.   Keeping A Gambling Place: A "gambling place" is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling. Any person who knowingly permits any premises or property owned or
occupied by him or under his control to be used as a gambling place shall be
guilty of the offense of keeping a gambling place.
Such premises is a public nuisance and may be proceeded against as such; and
All licenses, permits or certificates issued by the village of Lake Villa or
any subdivision or public agency thereof authorizing the serving of food or
liquor on such premises shall be void; and no license, permit or certificate so
canceled shall be reissued for such premises for a period of sixty (60) days
thereafter; nor shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be
reissued such license for one year from his conviction and, after a second
conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be reissued
such license; and
Such premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a violation of any
section of this chapter shall be held liable for, and may be sold to pay any
unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied fine that may be
levied under any section of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-09-01, 9-26-2007)
6-2-5: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC OFFICERS:
A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to the
person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his official capacity
shall be guilty of resisting or obstructing a public officer. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-
22-1977)
6-2-6: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
   B.   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues; or
   C.   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that
such fire exists; or
   D.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb or explosive
is concealed in such place; or
   E.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   F.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
   G.   Instigates, starts or engages in a fight with another person in any
public or private place in the Village. For the purposes of this subsection, a
"fight" is defined as any form of physical combat or hostile encounter, not
predetermined as a sporting event; and "instigate" is defined as any insulting
or threatening remark or gesture reasonably likely to cause or provoke a fight.
(Ord. 2005-04-02, 4-13-2005)
   H.   Uses a telecommunication device such as a computer, tablet, phone,
smart phone, pager or other device capable of electronically transmitting
spoken or written words, pictures, videos, data or other messages to a single
person, multiple persons or to any social media outlet such as, but not limited
to Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Snapchat that willfully:
      1.   Makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent;
      2.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication with
intent to terrify, intimidate or harass, or threaten to inflict injury or
physical harm to any person or property of that person;
      3.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication, whether
or not conversation ensues, with intent to put the party called in fear of
physical harm or death;
      4.   Makes a telecommunication or other electronic communication, whether
or not conversation ensues, without disclosing the identity of the person
making the call or communication and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or
harass any person at the called number;
      5.   Knowingly permits any telecommunication or other electronic
communication under the control of the person to be used for any purpose
prohibited by this subsection; and
      6.   In conspiracy or concerted action with other persons, makes repeated
calls or electronic communications or simultaneous calls or electronic
communications solely to harass any person at the called number(s).
Any offense under this subsection H is a continuing offense and shall be deemed
to have been committed at either the place of origin or the place of reception.
(Ord. 2017-08-03, 8-23-2017)
6-2-7: LOITERING:
   A.   Definitions:
   LOITERING: Remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include the
concepts of spending time idly, loafing or walking about aimlessly, and shall
also include the colloquial expression "hanging around".
   PARENT OR GUARDIAN: Any adult person having care or custody of a minor,
whether by reason of blood relationship, the order of any court or otherwise.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public has access and shall include any
street, highway, road, alley or sidewalk. It shall also include the front or
the neighborhood of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern or other place of
business, and public grounds, areas, parks, as well as parking lots or other
vacant private property not owned by or under the control of the person charged
with violating this chapter or in the case of a minor, not owned or under the
control of his parent or guardian.
   B.   Certain Types Of Loitering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to loiter, in a public place in such manner as to:
      1.   Clearly cause an immediate, actual, physical violent reaction from
any person of ordinary sensibilities, which reaction will cause or create a
threat to the peace and good order of the public; or
      2.   So disturb a person of ordinary sensibilities as to cause such
person to react immediately in such a way as to threaten by physical violence
the peace and good order of the public; or
      3.   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
      4.   Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in a "public
place" as defined in subsection A of this section. This subsection shall
include the making of unsolicited remarks of an offensive, disgusting or
insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or disturb a person of
ordinary sensibilities so as to cause such person to react immediately in such
a way as to threaten by physical violence the peace and good order of the
public.
No person shall be convicted of loitering in a public place in violation of
this chapter unless a police officer at the time determined that such person
was causing any of the conditions enumerated hereinabove and such police
officer, at that time, ordered the person to cease the enumerated conduct,
which police order the person refused to obey.
   C.   Loitering By Minors: No parent or guardian of a minor under the age of
eighteen (18) years shall knowingly permit the minor to loiter in violation of
this chapter.
   D.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever any minor under the age of eighteen (18)
years is adjudicated to be in violation of this chapter, his parent or guardian
shall be notified of this fact by the Chief of Police or any other person
designated by him to give such notice.
   E.   Presumption: If at any time within thirty (30) days following the
giving of notice as provided in subsection D of this section, the minor to whom
such notice relates again violates this chapter, it shall be presumed in the
absence of evidence to the contrary that the minor did so with the knowledge
and permission of his parent or guardian. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
6-2-8: MINORS, OFFENSES INVOLVING:
   A.   Parental Responsibility:
      1.   Definitions:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody of a minor by
a Circuit Court of the State, but does not include a person appointed guardian,
or given custody of a minor under the Juvenile Court Act.
   MINOR: A person who is above the age of eight (8) years, but not yet
nineteen (19) years of age.
      2.   Failure To Exercise Parental Control: The parent or legal guardian
of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility and said minor shall be deemed to have
committed the acts described below with the knowledge and permission of the
parent or legal guardian, in violation of this subsection, upon the occurrence
of the events described below:
         a.   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal
guardian shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law,
or statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law
or statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
         b.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written
notice thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service, with certificate of personal service
returned, from the Police Department of the Village following said adjudication
or nonjudicial sanction; and
         c.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the written
notice set forth above, said minor is again either adjudicated to be in
violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described above, or shall have
incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an
admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described
above. (Ord. 77-10-1, 10-26-1977)
   B.   Curfew:
      1.   Age And Hour Restrictions Generally: It is unlawful for any person
within the corporate boundaries of the village who is less than seventeen (17)
years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway at the following times unless the person is: a) accompanied
by the child's parent or legal guardian; b) accompanied by a person at least
eighteen (18) years of age with the written approval by the child's parent or
guardian; c) participating in, going to, or returning by the most direct route
from: 1) lawful employment, occupation which the laws of the state authorize a
person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform, 2) an activity
sanctioned by his or her school, 3) a religious event, 4) an emergency
involving the protection of a person or property from an imminent threat of
serious bodily injury or substantial damage, 5) an activity involving the
exercise of the child's rights protected under the first amendment to the
United States constitution or the constitution of the state of Illinois, or
both, such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly, or 6) an activity
conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that provides recreation,
education, training, or other care under the supervision of one or more adults;
or d) engaged in interstate or international travel from a location outside
Illinois to another location outside Illinois:
         a.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., Saturday;
         b.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday; and
         c.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
      2.   School Hours:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) who
is enrolled in any public, private or parochial elementary or secondary school
to be present in or upon any public place, street, building, or assembly, other
than school, during any hours when his or her school is in session during the
regular school term, unless he or she is:
            (1)   Traveling to or from school by the most direct route; or
            (2)   Engaged in an activity sanctioned by his or her school; or
            (3)   Engaged in personal business, including, but not limited to,
employment, medical care, educational and/or religious activities, with prior
notice to school authorities from a parent or legal guardian; or
            (4)   Participating in, going to, or returning by the most direct
route from: a) an activity sanctioned by his or her school, b) a religious
event, c) an emergency involving the protection of a person or property from an
imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage, d) an activity
involving the exercise of the child's rights protected under the first
amendment to the United States constitution or the constitution of the state of
Illinois, or both, such as freedom of speech and the right of assembly; or
            (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Illinois to another location outside Illinois.
      3.   Police Officer Authority: A police officer may stop and detain a
person whom the officer reasonably suspects to be violating this subsection B
for the shortest period practical for the purpose of verifying the person's
identity, age, and any applicable exception to the aforesaid curfew
regulations. The police officer shall immediately inform the person of the
reason for the detention and that he or she will be released upon verification
of any applicable exception to the aforesaid curfew regulations. A police
officer shall, if practicable, take a person charged with violating this
subsection B to a parent or legal guardian, or school authorities, in the case
of a school curfew violation. In addition, or in the alternative to such a
course of action, the officer may issue the person in question a notice to
appear for such violation. (Ord. 2006-02-03, 2-22-2006)
6-2-9: SEX OFFENSES:
   A.   Contributing To The Sexual Delinquency Of A Child: Any person of the
age of fourteen (14) years and upwards who performs or submits to any of the
following acts with any person under the age of eighteen (18) contributes to
the sexual delinquency of a child:
      1.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct; or
      3.   Any lewd fondling or touching of either the child or the person done
or submitted to with the intent to arouse or to satisfy the sexual desires of
either child or person or both; or
      4.   Any lewd act done in the presence of the child with the intent to
arouse or to satisfy the sexual desires of either the person or the child or
both.
It shall not be a defense to contributing to the sexual delinquency of a child
that the accused reasonably believed the child to be of the age of eighteen
(18) or upwards.
   B.   Public Indecency: Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and
upwards who performs any of the following acts in a public place commits a
public indecency:
      1.   An act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   An act of deviate sexual conduct; or
      3.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to satisfy
the sexual desire of the person; or
      4.   A lewd fondling or caress of the body of another person of either
sex.
"Public place" for purposes of this chapter means any place where the conduct
may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
   C.   Obscenity:
      1.   Obscene Acts: A person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of the
nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof, he:
         a.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; or
         b.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance
or participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene; or
         c.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything
obscene; or
         d.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene
exhibition of his body for gain; or
         e.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
         f.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
      2.   Obscene Things: A thing is obscene for purposes of this chapter
when:
The average person, applying contemporary community standards, would find that
the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest; the work depicts
or describes, in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined
by applicable state law; the work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary,
artistic, political or scientific value.
      3.   Interpretation Of Evidence: Obscenity shall be judged with reference
to ordinary adults, except that it shall be judged with reference to children
or other specially susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of
the material or the circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed
for or directed to such an audience.
Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale, dissemination,
distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being commercially
exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with
respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the conclusion that the
matter is utterly without redeeming social importance.
In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence shall be
admissible to show: the character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed; what the predominant appeal of the
material would be for ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect,
if any, it would probably have on the behavior of such people; the artistic,
literary, scientific, educational or other merits of the material, or absence
thereof; the degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state; appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or other
promotion of the material; purpose of the author, creator, publisher or
disseminator.
      4.   Prima Facie Evidence: The creation, purchase, procurement or
possession of a mold, engraved plate or other embodiment of obscenity specially
adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three
(3) copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to
disseminate. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
6-2-10: FIREARMS:
   A.   Unlawful Use Of Weapons: A person commits the offense of unlawful use
of weapons when he knowingly:
      1.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife; or
      2.   Carries or possesses with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character; or
      3.   Carries on or about his person or in any vehicle, a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance; or
(Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
      4.   Reserved. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
      5.   Sets a spring gun; or
      6.   Possesses any device or any attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any weapon from
which more than eight (8) shots or bullets may be discharged by a single
function of the firing device, any shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen
inches (18") in length, or any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other
container containing an explosive substance such as, but not limited to, black
powder bombs and Molotov cocktails; or
      8.   Carries or possesses any firearm or other deadly weapon in any place
which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any public gathering
held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or any public
gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where a showing,
demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded firearms is
conducted; or
      9.   Carries or possesses in a vehicle or on or about his person any
pistol, revolver, or firearm, when he is hooded, robed or masked in such a
manner as to conceal his identity.
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence: The presence in an automobile other than a public
omnibus of any weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection A7 of
this section is prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is
being carried by, all persons occupying such automobile at the time such
weapon, instrument or substance is found, except under the following
circumstances:
      If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the person of
one of the occupants therein; or
      If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, and then presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   C.   Exemption:
      1.   Subsection A3 of this section does not apply to or affect any of the
following:
         Peace officers or any person summoned by any such officers to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while he is actually engaged in
assisting such officer.
         Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and place of employment.
         Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United States
or the Illinois national guard or the reserve officers training corps, while in
the performance of their official duty.
         Special agents employed by a railroad to perform police functions
while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or
commuting between their homes and places of employment; watchmen while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment; security guards
while actually engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or
commuting between their homes and places of employment, provided that such
commuting is accomplished within one hour from departure from home or place of
employment, as the case may be. For purposes of this section, "security guards"
mean persons employed by a licensed detective agency as defined by "an act to
provide for licensing and regulating detectives and detective agencies",
approved June 26, 1933, as amended, who are so employed for any of the purposes
enumerated in section 1(b) of such act 1 .
         Agents and investigators of the Illinois crime investigating
commission authorized by the commission to carry the weapons specified in
subsection A3 of this section, while on duty in the course of any investigation
for the commission.
         Manufacture, transportation or sale of weapons to persons authorized
under this subsection to possess those weapons. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
      2.   Subsection A7 of this section does not apply to or affect any of the
following:
         Peace officers;
         Wardens, superintendents and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries, jails
and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted of an
offense;
         Members of the armed services or reserve forces of the United States
or the Illinois national guard, while in the performance of their official
duty;
         Manufacture, transportation or sale of machine guns to persons
authorized above to possess machine guns, if the machine guns are broken down
in a nonfunctioning state or not immediately accessible.
      3.   Subsection A1 of this section does not apply to the purchase,
possession or carrying of a blackjack or slingshot by a peace officer.
      4.   Subsection A8 of this section does not apply to any owner, manager
or authorized employee of any place specified in subsection A8 of this section
nor to any law enforcement officer.
      5.   Any complaint based upon a violation of any subsection of this
section need not negate any exemptions contained in this section. The defendant
shall have the burden of proving such an exemption. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977;
amd. Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
   D.   Discharge Of Firearms: It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms
within the corporate limits of the village; provided, that this section shall
not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm
in the performance of his duty, nor prohibit any citizen from discharging a
firearm when lawfully defending his person or property. (Ord. 80-1-4, 1-23-
1980)
      1.   Hunting Blinds 2 : (Rep. by Ord. 92-6-3, 6-24-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 445/1 et seq.
2 1. See title 4, chapter 5 of this code for waterfowl blind regulations.
6-2-11: POSSESSION, USE AND/OR DELIVERY OF CANNABIS AND/OR OTHER ILLEGAL
SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section unless the context
otherwise requires:
ADULT USE      Cannabis which is sold, purchased, possessed, and used in compliance with the
CANNABIS:      Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
               Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified as
               including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the
               seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound,
               manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds,
               or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol
               derivatives, including the naturally occurring or synthetically produced
               ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly or by extraction, or
CANNABIS:      independently by means of chemical syntheses or by a combination of extraction
               and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
               fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
               any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of
               such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or
               the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. Cannabis
               does not include industrial hemp as authorized under the Illinois Industrial Hemp
               Act (505 ILCS 89/1, et seq.).
CANNABIS
REGULATION AND Illinois Public Act 101-027, as said Act may be amended from time to time.
TAX ACT:
COMPASSIONATE  The Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, Public Act 98-0122
USE ACT:       in force beginning January 1, 2014, as said Act may be amended from time to time
               (410 ILCS 130).
CONTROLLED     Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act,
SUBSTANCE:     as amended from time to time, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR     The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of possession of cannabis, with or
DELIVERY:      without consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
               All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other than methamphetamine
               manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the Methamphetamine Control
               and Community Protection Act, which are intended to be used unlawfully in
               planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
               compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
               packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
               inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled
               substance in violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, as amended from time
               to time, the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, as amended from time to time, or
               the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, as amended from time to
               time. It includes, but is not limited to:
               1.    Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
               converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
               substance;
               2.    Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing the
               potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance;
               3.    Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home for
               identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of cannabis or
DRUG           controlled substances;
PARAPHERNALIA: 4.    Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
               cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
               5.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
               introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body
               including, where applicable, the following items:
                  a.    Water pipes;
                  b.    Carburetion tubes and devices;
                  c.    Smoking and carburetion masks;
                  d.    Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
                  e.    Carburetor pipes;
                  f.    Electric pipes;
                  g.    Air driven pipes;
                  h.    Chillums;
                  i.    Bongs;
                  j.    Ice pipes or chillers.
               6.    Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for use
               in violation of this Section.
               7.    Any other item defined as "drug paraphernalia" by the Drug Paraphernalia
               Control Act, as it may be amended from time to time.
PERSON:        Any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency,
               business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other entity.
 
   B.    Possession, Use, Delivery, And/Or Sale Of Cannabis Prohibited:
      1.    It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess, use,
deliver and/or sell, and/or to attempt to deliver and/or sell cannabis, except
as allowed by and in compliance with the Compassionate Use Act and/or except as
allowed by and in compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, and then
only if and as allowed by this Section.
      2.   It is unlawful for a person under twenty-one (21) years of age to
possess, purchase, use, or deliver cannabis, except in compliance with and as
authorized by the Compassionate Use Act.
      3.   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian, or other person to permit
or allow the possession, purchase, use, or delivery of cannabis by their own
child or by any other person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age on
premises owned or under the control of such parent, guardian, or other person,
except in compliance with and as authorized by the Compassionate Use Act.
      4.   It is unlawful for any person to remain in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area
when said person knows, or reasonably should know, that one or more other
persons located in such motor vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment,
room, shed, yard, premises, or other area are in possession of any cannabis, or
any substance containing cannabis, any controlled substance, and/or any other
illegal substance prohibited by Illinois statute, except as allowed by and in
compliance with the Compassionate Use Act and/or except as allowed by and in
compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      5.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer, permit, or allow
the violation of the provisions of this section in any motor vehicle,
conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area
of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal possessor,
or occupier thereof.
      6.   Pursuant to the authority reserved to municipalities under Section
55-25 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, adult-use cannabis businesses
(including dispensing organizations, cultivation centers, craft growers,
processing organizations, infuser organizations, and transporting organizations
(collectively, "Adult Use Cannabis Businesses"), all as defined by the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) or as said Act may be amended from time
to time, and are hereby prohibited from locating anywhere within or operating
anywhere within the corporate limits of the Village, provided, however, this
Section shall not be construed to prohibit the operation of any facility
licensed to operate pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot
Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.), as may be amended from time to time,
that does not also hold a license to operate pursuant to the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, but only in compliance with the Zoning Ordinance of
this Village.
      7.   No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated,
or aid, abet, or assist in the operation of any adult use cannabis business
within the Village.
      8.   The operation of any adult use cannabis business within the Village
in violation of the provisions of this Section is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance which shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
   C.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever a person is present within any motor
vehicle, conveyance, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or
other area of which such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal
possessor or occupier at the time that a violation of the provisions of this
Section occurs therein, said presence shall be prima facie evidence that such
person had knowledge of such violation.
   D.   Medical Use Of Cannabis: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Village Code to the contrary, pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act (410 ILCS 130), as it may be amended from time to
time ("the Compassionate Use Act"), the immunities and presumptions set forth
in that Act related to the medical use of cannabis are hereby incorporated
herein by reference to the extent applicable.
   E.   Adult Use Of Cannabis: Notwithstanding anything contained in this
Village Code to the contrary, pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(Public Act 101-027) (the "Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act"), the immunities
and presumptions set forth in that Act related to limited consumption, use,
sale and possession as set forth in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act are
hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent applicable.
   F.   Drug Paraphernalia: The possession, use or sale of drug paraphernalia
is prohibited, except cannabis paraphernalia that is possessed, owned, and/or
used in connection with the use of cannabis, but only to the extent allowed by
and in compliance with the Compassionate Use Act and/or only to the extent as
allowed by and in compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
   G.   Exceptions: A person who is over twenty-one (21) years of age may not
possess, use, purchase, deliver, or attempt to deliver cannabis, except as
allowed by and in compliance with the Compassionate Use Act and/or as allowed
by and in compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-
22-1977; amd. 1983 Code; Ord. 2019-11-03, 11-18-2019)
6-2-12: INCHOATE OFFENSES:
   A.   Solicitation: A person commits solicitation when, with the intent that
an offense be committed, he commands, encourages or requests another to commit
that offense.
   B.   Conspiracy: A person commits conspiracy when, with intent that an
offense be committed, he agrees with another to the commission of that offense.
No person may be convicted of conspiracy to commit an offense unless an act in
furtherance of such agreement is alleged and proved to have been committed by
him or by a coconspirator. It shall not be a defense to conspiracy that the
person or person with whom the accused is alleged to have conspired:
      Has not been prosecuted or convicted; or
      Has been convicted of a different offense; or
      Is not amenable to justice; or
      Has been acquitted; or
      Lacked the capacity to commit an offense.
   C.   Defense: It is a defense to a charge of solicitation or conspiracy that
if the criminal object were achieved the accused would not be guilty of an
offense.
   D.   Attempt: A person commits an attempt when, with intent to commit a
specific offense, he does any act which constitutes a substantial step toward
the commission of that offense. It shall not be a defense to a charge of
attempt that because of a misapprehension of the circumstances it would have
been impossible for the accused to commit the offense attempted.
   E.   Multiple Convictions: No person shall be convicted of both the inchoate
and the principal offense.
   F.   Offense: For the purposes of this section, "offense" shall include
conduct which if performed in another state would be criminal by the laws of
that state and which conduct if performed in this State would be an offense
under the laws of this State. (Ord. 77-6-2, 6-22-1977)
6-2-13: DELIVERY AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL:
Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of age shall not purchase, or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have
alcoholic liquor in his possession.
If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to believe that
a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the nonage of
the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification, containing proof
of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card; use the
identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged identification
card; or obtain an identification card by means of false information. No person
shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic liquor in
violation of this section. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under twenty one (21) years of age is forbidden.
For purposes of this section the word "possess" or "possession" shall have the
meaning of being within the physical control of a person or within the area of
a person's reasonably expected physical control (i.e., in their constructive
possession), but for the purposes of this chapter, "possession" shall not
include the act of lawfully serving of alcoholic liquor to one or more
customers at tables on the licensed premises by an employee of a licensee of a
Class A, B, C, E, or G license issued pursuant to this chapter in the course of
their employment if such employee meets the age, employee training, and
supervision requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-03-02, 3-14-2007)
6-2-14: TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings:
   ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" excludes
cigars, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco products as these terms
are defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 675/1 et seq., and any product
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a non-tobacco
product for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
   SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Any tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or
chewing.
   SMOKING HERBS: All substances of plant origin and their derivatives,
including, but not limited to, broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops,
ginseng, lobelia, jimsonweed and other members of the Datura genus,
passionflower, wild lettuce, lettuce opium, any salvia species, and any other
herb(s) or other plant(s) which are processed or sold primarily for use as
smoking materials.
   TOBACCO ACCESSORIES: Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials
of all types, cigarette rolling machines and other items designed primarily for
the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products and/or of alternative nicotine
products, or of substances made illegal under any statute or of substances
whose sale, gift, barter or exchange is made unlawful under this section.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco. Tobacco products shall also include, but not be limited to, cheroots;
stogies; periques; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other
smoking tobacco; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and
other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings, and
sweepings of tobacco; and all other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in
such manner as to be suitable for chewing or smoking in a pipe or otherwise, or
both for chewing and smoking.
   VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products or alternative nicotine products.
   B.   Underage Persons:
      1.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall buy any cigar,
cigarette, smokeless tobacco, tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco accessories,
smoking herbs, or alternative nicotine product in any of their respective forms
unless upon the written order of the person's parent or guardian.
      2.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall possess any cigar,
cigarette, smokeless tobacco, tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco accessories,
smoking herbs, or alternative nicotine product in any of their respective forms
unless upon the written order of the person's parent or guardian.
      3.   No person shall sell, buy for, barter, exchange, distribute samples
of or furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco, tobacco, tobacco
products, tobacco accessories, smoking herb, or alternative nicotine product in
any of their respective forms to any person under twenty one (21) years of age
unless upon the written order of such person's parent or guardian or unless
such transaction occurs in the presence of such parent or guardian.
      4.   No person in the furtherance or facilitation of obtaining smokeless
tobacco, tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco accessories, smoking herbs, or
alternative nicotine products in any of their respective forms shall display or
use a false or forged identification card or transfer, alter or deface an
identification card.
   C.   Warning To Underage Persons:
      1.   Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation operating a
place of business wherein tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco accessories,
alternative nicotine products and/or smoking herbs in any of their respective
forms are sold or offered for sale shall post in a conspicuous place upon the
premises near every display of tobacco products, accessories, alternative
nicotine products or smoking herbs a sign upon which there shall be imprinted
the following statement:
SALE OF, AND/OR THE PURCHASE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, TOBACCO ACCESSORIES,
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS OR SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE
YEARS OF AGE OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW. POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS OR ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE
PRODUCTS BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN IS ALSO PROHIBITED BY LAW.
      2.   Such a sign shall be printed on a white card in red letters at least
one-half inch (1/2") in height. (Ord. 2019-02-06, 2-18-2019)
6-2-15: POSSESSION OR DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall possess, offer for
sale, expose for sale, sell, use, explode, or discharge any fireworks within
the corporate limits of the Village. For the purposes of this section,
"fireworks" shall mean and include any explosive composition or any substance
or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion,
combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy
cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman
candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any explosive compound; or any tablets or other device containing
any explosive substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; or fireworks showers or any mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur. The term "fireworks" shall not include snake or glowworm pellets;
smoke devices; sparklers; trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby
traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads" and "auto burglar
alarms"; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty five hundredths
(0.25) grain of explosive mixture. Nothing in these regulations shall be
construed as prohibiting the manufacture, storage or use of signals or fuses
necessary for the safe operation of railroads, trucks, aircraft, or other
instrumentalities of transportation.
   B.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall
have power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the granting of
permits for supervised public displays of fireworks. Every public display of
fireworks shall be handled by a qualified individual as specified in the
Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act 1 , and such display shall be of such a
character and so located, discharged or fired, as not to be hazardous to
property or endanger any person or persons. The Mayor and Board of Trustees
shall require a certificate of insurance in form and with coverage approved by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees or their designee. Application for permits
shall be made in writing at least thirty (30) days in advance of the date of
the display on a form approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees and available
from the Village Clerk. If such permit shall have been granted, sales,
possession, use and distribution of fireworks for such display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit hereunder shall be transferable. Such permit
shall be issued only after inspection of the display site by the applicable
fire protection district to determine that such display shall not be hazardous
to property or endanger any person or persons. One copy of such permit shall be
on file with the Village, one copy of such permit shall be on file with the
applicable fire protection district, and one copy of such permit shall be
forwarded to the Office of the State Fire Marshal. (Ord. 2005-10-02, 10-12-
2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.
6-2-16: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person in or upon any public street, alley, or
public place to be under the influence of alcohol to a degree that renders the
person incapable of acting in a normal fashion or the alcohol concentration in
the person's blood or breath is 0.08 or more based on the definition of blood
and breath units in section 11-501.2 of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code or
under the influence of any drug, substance, or compound resulting from the
unlawful use or consumption of cannabis as listed in the Cannabis Control Act,
a controlled substance as listed in the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, or
an intoxicating compound as listed in the Use of Intoxicating Compounds Act.
(Ord. 2004-08-04, 8-11-2004)
6-2-17: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, certain terms and words
are hereby defined. Words used in the present tense shall include the future;
the singular shall include the plural and the plural the singular; and the word
"shall" is mandatory and not directory.
   CLOSE PROXIMITY: Within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') on a
straight line commencing at the property lines nearest to each other.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any drug or controlled substance as defined under any
law of the State of Illinois or of the United States of America.
   INSTRUMENT: Any device used, designed for use, adapted for use, or intended
for use in ingesting, smoking, inhaling, administering or preparing "cannabis"
as heretofore defined in section 6-2-11 of this chapter, cocaine,
phencyclidine, opium or any derivative thereof, or any other controlled
substance, and includes the following:
      1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic marijuana
(Cannabis sativa) or hashish pipes with or without screens, permanent screens,
hashish heads or punctured metal bowls;
      2.   Water pipes designed for use or intended for use with marijuana
(Cannabis sativa), hashish, hashish oil or cocaine;
      3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      5.   Roach clips;
      6.   Separation gins designed for use or intended for use in cleaning
marijuana;
      7.   Cocaine spoons and vials;
      8.   Chamber pipes;
      9.   Carburetor pipes;
      10.   Electric pipes;
      11.   Air driven pipes;
      12.   Chillums;
      13.   Bongs; and
      14.   Ice pipes or chillers.
   MINOR: Any person who has not attained eighteen (18) years of age.
   PLACE OF DISPLAY: Any museum, library, school or other similar public place
upon which business is not transacted for a profit.
   PREMISES OPEN TO MINORS: Any business establishment which sells its wares or
merchandise to minors or which permits minors to enter into its place of
business.
   SCHOOL: Any public or private elementary, junior high or high school.
   B.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to have, possess, sell, offer to sell, dispense or give away any
pipe, device or contrivance adapted for the use of ingesting, smoking,
inhaling, administering, or preparing any controlled substance, which said
pipe, device or contrivance is herein defined as an "instrument"; provided,
however, that such pipe, device or contrivance defined herein as an
"instrument" has been used for the purpose of smoking or inhaling or ingesting
a controlled substance.
   C.   Sale And Display Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell or display any "instrument" as defined in this section in or upon any
premises which:
      1.   Is a premises open to minors; or
      2.   Is in close proximity to a school or park; unless such premises is a
place of display.
   D.   Revocation Of License: In addition to the penalty authorized by this
Code, any person convicted of a violation of subsection C of this section shall
be subject to revocation of the business license issued to the owner or
operator of such premises.
   E.   Presumption Of Use And/Or Adaptation For Use: For the purposes of this
section, use and/or adaptation for use of a device for ingesting, smoking,
inhaling, administering, or preparing any controlled substance in violation of
this section may be established by a positive result from a police field test
of such device indicating the presence of any such controlled substance
thereon. Such a positive result for a police field test of such a device for
controlled substances shall create a rebuttable presumption that such a device
has been used and/or adapted for use in ingesting, smoking, inhaling,
administering, or preparing any such controlled substance in violation of this
section.
   F.   Nuisance: A violation of this section is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance and shall be subject to abatement as provided by law.
   G.   Exemptions: This section shall not apply to any items or persons exempt
from the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, as amended from time to time, and/or
except as allowed by and in compliance with the Compassionate Use Act (410 ILCS
130) and/or except as allowed by and in compliance with the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act. (Ord. 2007-02-01, 2-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-11-03, 11-18-2019)
6-2-18: CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or to possess, except in the
original package with the seals unbroken, any alcoholic beverage upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or in any park or on other public property within the
Village, subject to the following exceptions:
   A.   Unless such possession and consumption occurs at and within the
premises of a sidewalk cafe or within such other outdoor private use area which
is the subject of both a current, valid permit for such outdoor use issued by
the Village and a current, valid Class J liquor license issued by the Village,
and during the permit hours of such outdoor use; or
   B.   Unless such possession and consumption occurs at and within the
confines of a special event at a location and time authorized by the Village
for which a current and valid Class F liquor license or a current and valid
Class I liquor license has been issued by the Village; or
   C.   Unless such possession is in compliance with section 6-28.8 or section
6-33 of the Illinois Liquor Code. (Ord. 2018-11-02, 11-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-
06-01, 6-1-2020)
6-2-19: TRUANCY:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) enrolled in a public, private, or parochial school, to absent
himself from attendance at school without permission from a parent or legal
guardian. Any person who shall so absent himself shall be guilty of the offense
of truancy and be subject to the penalties set forth in this code. Emergency or
unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond the control of the
person so absenting himself from school without permission from a parent or
legal guardian shall not constitute truancy if permission for such absence has
substantially been obtained from the parent or legal guardian and such
permission is submitted in writing to the proper school authorities within
twenty four (24) hours after such absence.
   B.   Obligation Of Parents Or Legal Guardians: It is hereby made unlawful
for any parent, legal guardian or other person having the legal care and
custody of any person under eighteen (18) years of age, to allow or permit any
such child, ward or other person under such age enrolled in a public, private
or parochial school, to absent himself from attendance at school without
permission from said parent or legal guardian.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   If a person between the age of ten (10) years and under the age of
eighteen (18) years is found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction and/or
found liable by the Hearing Officer of the Village's Administrative
Adjudication System of violating this section, such offense shall be subject to
a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for the first offense and/or community service, and
shall be subject to mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for a second or any subsequent offense and/or
community service.
      2.   If a person under ten (10) years of age, or the parent, legal
guardian, or custodian of a person under ten (10) years of age, is convicted by
a court of competent jurisdiction of violating this section, the parent, legal
guardian, or custodian of such person shall be subject to a mandatory fine as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for the first offense and/or community service, and
shall be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for a second or any subsequent offense and/or
community service. (Ord. 2007-02-01, 2-14-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-
2024))
6-2-20: SOCIAL HOSTING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and which contains one-half of
one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes
either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   CONVEYANCE: Any vehicle, trailer, watercraft, or container operated for the
transportation of persons or property.
   EVENT OR GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have
assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST: To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit an event or gathering.
   ILLICIT DRUGS: Any drug, substance, or compound prohibited by law, including
drugs prescribed by a physician that are in the possession of or used by
someone other than the person to whom the drug was prescribed.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      1.   As a natural, adoptive parent, or stepparent;
      2.   As a legal guardian; or
      3.   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, parks, businesses or parking lots.
   REASONABLE STEPS: Controlling access to alcoholic beverages at the event or
gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the event
or gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the event or gathering by
inspecting driver's licenses or other government issued identification cards to
ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the event or
gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at the event or gathering,
calling for police assistance in the event people under twenty one (21) years
of age are in possession of alcohol at the event or gathering.
   RELIGIOUS CEREMONY: The possession, consumption and dispensation of alcohol
or an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or
religious ceremony.
   RESIDENCE OR PREMISES: Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual less than twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   Certain Events And Gatherings Prohibited:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to host, permit, allow, or fail to
take reasonable steps to prevent an event or gathering at any residence or
premises, or on any other property whether private or public, or in any
conveyance, over which that person has control or a reasonable opportunity for
control where illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages are present when that person
knows or reasonably should know that an underage person will or does consume or
possess any illicit drugs or alcoholic beverage.
      2.   It also is unlawful for any person to fail to take reasonable steps
to prevent possession or consumption of illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages by
an underage person at any such event or gathering. A person who hosts an event
or gathering does not have to be present at the event or gathering to be in
violation of this subsection B.
   C.   Other Responsible Persons:
      1.   A person is responsible for violating subsection B of this section
if that person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, conspires with, or
solicits another person to commit a violation of subsection B of this section.
      2.   A person is responsible for violating subsection B of this section
if that person knows or should have known about the committing of a prohibited
act and failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the prohibited act.
   D.   Exceptions:
      1.   A person who hosts an event or gathering shall not be in violation
of this section if he or she undertakes one of the following steps before any
other person makes a complaint about the event or gathering:
         a.   Seeks assistance from the Lake Villa police department or other
law enforcement agency to remove any person who refuses to abide by the host's
performance of the duties imposed by this section; or
         b.   Terminates the event or gathering because the host has been
unable to prevent underage persons from consuming illicit drugs or alcoholic
beverages despite having taken all reasonable steps to do so.
      2.   This section does not apply to conduct involving the use of
alcoholic beverages that occurs at a religious ceremony or that is exclusively
between an underage person and his or her parent, as permitted by Illinois
state law.
   E.   Fines; Penalties: Any person who violates or assists in the violation
of any provision of this section shall be deemed to have committed a petty
offense and shall be subject to a mandatory daily fine as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each such violation. Each day on which, or
during which, a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
      1.   The first violation of this section shall be punishable by a
mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      2.   A second violation of this section by the same person within a
twelve (12) month period shall be punishable by a mandatory fine and as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      3.   A third or subsequent violation of this section by the same person
within a twelve (12) month period shall be punishable by a mandatory fine as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2009-10-01, 10-28-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-
03, 12-2-2024)
6-2-21: PENALTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in sections
6-2-19 and
6-2-20 of this chapter, any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, shall be subject to a mandatory daily fine
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, per offense, and each day an offense exists of
continues constitutes a separate offense..
   B.   In case any parent, guardian or person in control or charge of a child
who has received notice as provided in this chapter shall knowingly permit such
child again to violate the provisions of this chapter, such parent, guardian,
custodian or person in control or charge of such child shall be subject to a
mandatory daily fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for
each day a violation of this chapter occurs or continues. "Person", for the
purposes of this chapter, shall mean and include any individual, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other legal entity. (Ord. 2009-10-01, 10-28-
2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Inoculation Required
6-3-2: Prohibited Or Restricted Actions
6-3-3: Restriction On Number Of Dogs Or Cats
6-3-4: Reserved
6-3-5: Dog Bites
6-3-1: INOCULATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to possess, keep, or harbor any dog over the age of six
(6) months unless such dog has been inoculated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian and the dog has attached to its collar a valid rabies inoculation
tag issued by the Lake County health department. (Ord. 2001-3-4, 3-28-2001)
6-3-2: PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED ACTIONS:
   A.   Cruelty: No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the village in any
way; any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads, or abandons any
animal shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this subsection.
   B.   Dangerous Animals: It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal
or vicious animal of any kind to run at large within the village.
   C.   Disturbing The Peace: No person owning any dog shall suffer or permit
such dog to disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, making
other loud or unusual noises, or by running through or across cultivated
gardens, lawns, or fields. It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animals
which disturb the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
   D.   Strays: It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse, swine, sheep,
goats, or poultry to run at large in the village; any such animal running at
large in any public place in the village shall be impounded in the manner
provided in this chapter.
   E.   Animal Waste; Removal: No person having custody or control of a dog,
cat, or any other animal shall permit said animal to defecate on any school
grounds, public street, alley, sidewalk, park or any other public property
unless said defecation is immediately removed. No person having custody or
control of a dog, cat, or any other animal shall permit said animal to defecate
on any private property other than the premises of the person who has custody
or control of the dog, cat, or animal. For purposes of this chapter, someone
who regularly (i.e., more than once in any calendar week) feeds a stray dog,
cat, or other stray animal shall be considered to have custody or control of
such animal.
   F.   Running At Large: No dog shall be permitted to run at large in the
village. This section does not apply to any dog on its owner's premises while
attended by and in the charge of a responsible person.
   G.   Nuisances: Any dog found in the village either without a license or
running at large under the conditions set forth above is hereby declared to be
a nuisance and shall be impounded. (Ord. 2010-08-01, 8-11-2010)
6-3-3: RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS:
   A.   Maximum Number Allowed: No more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats,
or no more than three (3) of any combination of cats and dogs, shall be allowed
in any dwelling in the village.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of any dwelling in the village shall
not permit it to be occupied by dogs and/or cats exceeding the permissible
number set forth in subsection A of this section, except the occupants may
retain the puppies or kittens born of such dogs or cats for not more than
twelve (12) weeks after the birth of the animals.
      2.   Any owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of any dwelling in the village who
owns more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats, or more than three (3) of any
combination thereof, at the time of the enactment of this section may continue
to retain their animals on said premises, provided that:
         a.   The animals in the dwelling are not creating a nuisance;
         b.   There is adequate waste disposal;
         c.   There is no hazard to public safety, health and welfare; and
         d.   If for any reason any one or more of said animals is lost, sold,
given away, or dies, and three (3) or more dogs or three (3) or more cats, or
more than three (3) of any combination thereof, remain in the dwelling, there
can be no replacement of the lost, sold, or deceased animal(s). (Ord. 2010-08-
01, 8-11-2010)
6-3-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2001-3-4, 3-28-2001)
6-3-5: DOG BITES:
Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of the said dog shall immediately
notify the chief of police who shall order the dog impounded for a period of
two (2) weeks. The dog shall be examined immediately after it has bitten anyone
and again at the end of the two (2) week period. If at the end of two (2) weeks
a veterinarian is convinced that the dog is then free from rabies, the dog
shall be released from quarantine from the pound. If the dog dies in the
meanwhile, its head shall be sent to the state department of health for
examination for rabies. (Ord. 70-6-2, 6-1-1970)
CHAPTER 4
AIRCRAFT
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Use In Village
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed for
navigation of or flight in the air.
LANDING SPACE: Any lake or land within the confines of the village limits of
the village of Lake Villa.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, public service corporation, or body politic and
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee or other similar representative
thereof. (Ord. 264, 8-3-1953)
6-4-2: USE IN VILLAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to land any aircraft or after landing, to
take off from any body of water or land within the limits of said village when
so to land or take off such aircraft would jeopardize the lives of any persons
located upon such body of water or land where such landing or takeoff shall be
made or attempted, except in cases of emergency where the life of the person or
persons in such aircraft would be jeopardized were not such landing or takeoff
made. (Ord. 264, 8-3-1953)
CHAPTER 5
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Service Charge
6-5-3: Cumulative Remedies
6-5-4: Effective Date
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, phrases, words and their derivations are hereby defined as
follows:
ALARM HOLDER: The owner or lessee of an "alarm system" within or on premises.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any alarm which alerts, notifies, or otherwise communicates to or
with any person or equipment located outside of or off site from the premises
is an alarm system.
FALSE ALARM: An alarm, to which the Lake Villa police department has responded,
is false unless:
   A.   There is evidence of an actual or obvious attempted intrusion, or
   B.   There is evidence of an electrical utility outage or condition
affecting a general neighborhood.
SERVICE CHARGE: An assessment by the village against an alarm holder for false
alarms emanating from the alarm system as provided in this chapter.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa. (Ord. 2003-02-02, 2-26-2003)
6-5-2: SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Three (3) false alarms shall be without charge in any calendar year.
The alarm holder shall pay a service charge as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   A thirty (30) day grace period for new alarm systems or for major
modification or additions to existing alarm systems shall be granted through a
written request upon approval by the Lake Villa police department. (Ord. 2003-
02-02, 2-26-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
6-5-3: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES:
In addition to all other remedies provided herein, the village shall have such
other and further legal and equitable remedies as provided by law, including,
but not limited to, an injunction to prohibit the violation of this chapter. In
addition thereto, separate and apart from the service charges that are provided
in this chapter, for each false alarm exceeding three (3) false alarms in a
calendar year, each such false alarm shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, and shall subject the owner of the premises to mandatory daily fines
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and each day an offense exists or continues
constitutes a separate offense. The mandatory fines as provided for herein are
separate and apart from, and in addition to, the service charges specified in
section
6-5-2 of this chapter. In addition, the failure to pay any service charges
specified in section
6-5-2 of this chapter within ten (10) days of written notice from the village
shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter, and subject the owner of
the premises to additional mandatory fines as set forth in this Section, and as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2003-02-02, 2-26-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
6-5-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect ninety (90) days from and after
its passage and approval by the village board. (Ord. 2003-02-02, 2-26-2003)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL SERVICE FEES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Purpose
6-6-2: Emergency Lock Out Service Fee
6-6-3: Fingerprint Fee
6-6-1: PURPOSE:
The village of Lake Villa police department provides certain special services
which place a severe and continuing burden on the resources of the police
department. The village and its police department wish to continue to provide
such services, and in order to permit the village to do so, the corporate
authorities hereby find that it is in the best interests of the village and the
public that the corporate authorities of the village approve an amendment to
this code to provide for the payment of fees for the provision by the police
department of such special services under certain circumstances as described
herein. (Ord. 2010-06-03, 6-23-2010)
6-6-2: EMERGENCY LOCK OUT SERVICE FEE:
The fee for entry into a locked vehicle by the police department is as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. This fee will not be imposed:
   A.   On a village resident requesting entry to a locked vehicle that he or
she has a current right to operate; or
   B.   On an operator of a vehicle owned by any federal, state, county, or
municipal agency if the operator is engaged in the course of his or her
federal, state, county, or municipal duties; or
   C.   For entry into a vehicle owned and currently being operated by a
village employee; or
   D.   On an operator of a vehicle when that vehicle or its contents poses an
immediate hazard and the vehicle therefore must be removed immediately from its
current location; or
   E.   On an operator, regardless of village residency, of a locked vehicle
that is occupied by a person who cannot unlock the vehicle and there is a
potential health or safety risk; or
   F.   For other exigent circumstances as determined by the responding police
officer. (Ord. 2010-06-03, 6-23-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
6-6-3: FINGERPRINT FEE:
The fee for the provision of fingerprinting services shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. This fee shall not be imposed on any village
resident. (Ord. 2010-06-03, 6-23-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
7-1-2: Vehicles On Frozen Waters
7-1-3: Designated Streets And Intersections
7-1-4: Recreational Vehicles
7-1-5: Speed Limits
7-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption: Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context or purposes thereof, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions,
penalties and sections of the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 through 5/20-402, inclusive, are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as ordinance definitions, requirements,
regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections of the village vehicle code.
Any and all violations of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 through 5/20-
402, inclusive, as amended, shall be considered violations of this section and
each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to the specific penalty
provisions of the Illinois vehicle code and the section numbers of the Illinois
vehicle code are hereby adopted as section numbers of this code and may be
cited as such.
   B.   Ratification: Except as modified or changed herein, all village
ordinances heretofore adopted and/or amended that are still in full force and
effect, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-
2013)
7-1-2: VEHICLES ON FROZEN WATERS:
   A.   Definitions:
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every form or type of vehicle which is self-propelled.
   OPERATES: To ride in or on other than as a passenger, use or control of a
motor vehicle in any manner whether or not the motor vehicle is under way.
   WATERS OF LAKE VILLA: Any water within the jurisdiction of Lake Villa,
Illinois.
   B.   Prohibition: No person shall drive, operate or park any motor vehicle
upon any frozen water located within the village.
   C.   Exception: Motor vehicles properly registered by the Illinois
department of conservation, under the Illinois boating registration and safety
act and properly registered snowmobiles shall be excluded from the requirements
of this section. (Ord. 78-2-2, 2-22-1978)
7-1-3: DESIGNATED STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS:
Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop, and yield right of
way streets; all one-way streets and alleys; and all stop intersections; and
right-turn in, right-turn out intersections.
   A.   Through Streets: The streets and parts of streets of the village
designated by ordinance as through streets are hereby declared to be through
streets. The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer
or a traffic control signal.
   B.   One-Way Streets Or Alleys: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
on any streets or alleys designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance,
in any direction other than that so designated.
Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle shall be
driven only in the direction designated.
A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven on the right
of such island.
   C.   Stop Streets: Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or
traffic control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop
intersection indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line,
but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield
the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
roadway or which is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when the driver is moving across or within the
intersection, but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a
safe interval occurs.
The stop sign intersections are as follows:
      1.   One-way stops:
Street Direction Intersecting Street Or Location
Street                  Direction      Intersecting Street Or Location
Amber Lane              Southbound     Monaville Road
Apache Trail            Westbound      Fairfield Road
Apache Trail            Westbound      Nez Perce Lane
Arapaho Trail           Eastbound      Shoshoni Trail
Arapaho Trail           Northbound     Shoshoni Trail
Balsam Avenue           Northbound     Coventry Cove Lane
Baxter Lane             Northbound     Benton Lane
Baxter Lane             Southbound     Winchester Lane
Belmont Avenue          Westbound      McKinley Avenue
Beverly Drive           Northbound     1157-1200 Beverly Drive
Beverly Drive           Southbound     1157-1200 Beverly Drive
Blackstone Court        Eastbound      Painted Lakes Boulevard
Breeze Drive            Northbound     Southwind Drive at both
                                       such intersections
Breeze Drive            Northbound     Winddance Drive
Brooking Court          Eastbound      Painted Lakes Boulevard
Burnett Avenue          Eastbound      Milwaukee Avenue (Route 83)
Carlyle Court           Eastbound      Painted Lakes Boulevard
Cedar Avenue            Eastbound      Route 83
Cedar Avenue            Southbound     Grand Avenue
Cedar Lake Avenue       Eastbound      Frontage Road
Central Avenue          Southbound     Grand Avenue
Charlton Court          Southbound     Hampton Drive
Charlton Road           Westbound      Hampton Drive
Chelsea Circle          Southbound     Coventry Cove Lane
Cherokee Court          Eastbound      Nez Perce Lane
Clearview Lane          Eastbound      Painted Lakes Boulevard
Clearview Lane          Westbound      Benton Road
Cleveland Avenue        Southbound     Grand Avenue
Coventry Cove Lane      Eastbound      McKinley Avenue
Cremin Drive            Northbound     Grand Avenue
Evan Lane               Northwestbound Spring Farm Road
Farmhill Court          Westbound      Farmhill Lane
Farmhill Lane           Southbound     Monaville Road
Fieldstone Drive        Northbound     Briar Ridge Lane
Fieldstone Drive        Westbound      Savanna Springs
Grace Lane              Westbound      Majestic Avenue
Hampton Drive           Westbound      Route 83
Hubbard Lane            Eastbound      Painted Lakes Boulevard
Hubbard Lane            Westbound      Benton Road
Huntington Circle       Southbound     Charlton Road
Juniper Way             Eastbound      McKinley Avenue
Juniper Way             Westbound      McKinley Avenue
Juniper Way             Westbound      Pine View Pass
Kenz Drive              Westbound      Cremin Drive
Kevin Avenue            Northbound     Wesley Avenue
Lake Avenue             Eastbound      Route 83
Landen Lane             Northeastbound Evan Lane
Landen Lane             Southwestbound Longwood Drive
Laurie Court            Westbound      Walden Lane
Majestic Avenue         Southbound     Amber Lane
McKenzie Court          Eastbound      Painted Lakes Boulevard
McKinley Avenue         Northbound     Grand Avenue
McKinley Avenue         Southbound     Red Spruce Trail
Meadowview Court        Southbound     Winddance Drive
Nez Perce Lane          Southbound     Apache Trail
North Shore Drive       Eastbound      Frontage Road
Northwind Avenue        Southbound     Winddance Drive
Northwind Drive         Southbound     Winddance Drive
Oak Knoll Drive         Northbound     Grand Avenue
Oak Lane                Northbound     Grand Avenue
Oakton Lane             Westbound      Savanna Springs
Oakwood Lane            Eastbound      Oak Knoll Drive
Overlook Court          Northbound     Winddance Drive
Painted Lakes Boulevard Eastbound      Deep Lake Road
Painted Lakes Court     Northbound     Sun Lake Road
Park Avenue             Eastbound      Route 83
Park Avenue             Northbound     Grand Avenue
Rae Avenue              Westbound      West Park Avenue
Railroad Avenue         Northbound     Cedar Avenue
Railroad Avenue         Southbound     Grand Avenue
Red Spruce Trail        Northbound     White Pine Lane
Rushing Court           Southbound     Sun Lake Road
Savanna Springs         Southbound     Monaville Road
Sheehan Drive           Northbound     Grand Avenue
Sherwood Avenue         Southbound     Burnett Avenue
Sherwood Lane           Northbound     Grand Avenue
Shoshoni Trail          Southbound     Grand Avenue
Southwind Court         Northbound     Southwind Drive
Southwind Drive         Northbound     Winddance Drive
Spring Farm Road        Southwestbound Longwood Drive
Summit Court            Southbound     Savanna Springs
Sun Lake Court          Southbound     Sun Lake Road
Tall Grass Lane         Northbound     Briar Ridge Lane
Twin Oaks Drive         Westbound      West Park Avenue
Villa Avenue            Westbound      Central Avenue
Waterbury Circle        Southbound     Coventry Cove Lane
Wesley Avenue           Eastbound      McKinley Avenue
Winchester Lane         Northbound     Benton Lane
Winddance Court         Southbound     Winddance Drive
Winddance Drive         Eastbound      Savanna Springs
Winddance Drive         Westbound      Cedar Lake Road
Woodhead Drive          Southbound     Grand Avenue
Woodhill Court          Southbound     Woodhill Lane
Woodhill Lane           Eastbound      Farmhill Lane
 
      2.   Two-way stops:
Street Direction Intersecting Street
Street                  Direction              Intersecting Street
Amherst Drive           Northbound, Southbound Charlton Road
Benton Road             Eastbound, Westbound   Painted Lakes Boulevard
Burnett Avenue          Eastbound, Westbound   McKinley Avenue
Central Avenue          Northbound             Cedar Avenue
Indian Ridge Lane       Westbound              Tall Grass and Indian Ridge Lane
Juniper Way             Eastbound, Westbound   McKinley Avenue
Lake Avenue             Westbound              Cedar Avenue
Northwind Drive         Eastbound              Northwind Drive
                       Southbound             Northwind Avenue
Northwind Lane          Eastbound              Northwind Drive
                       Southbound             Northwind Avenue
Oakton Lane             Eastbound, Westbound   Fieldstone Drive
Painted Lakes Boulevard Northbound, Southbound Sun Lake Road and Painted Lakes
                                               Boulevard
Red Spruce Trail        Eastbound, Westbound   McKinley Avenue
Tall Grass Lane         Southbound             Tall Grass Lane and Indian Ridge
                                               Lane
White Pine Lane         Eastbound, Westbound   McKinley Avenue
 
      3.   Three-way stops:
 
Intersecting Streets                                  Direction
Benton Road and Clearview Lane                        All
Kevin Avenue and McKinley Avenue                      All
Painted Lakes Boulevard and Sun Lake Road (north end) All
Savanna Springs Drive and Oakton Lane                 All
Savanna Springs Drive and Winddance Drive             All
Spring Farm Road and Painted Lakes Boulevard          All
 
      4.   Four-way stops:
 
Intersecting Streets                    Direction
Balsam Avenue and McKinley Avenue       All
Balsam Court and McKinley Avenue        All
Burnett Avenue and Sherwood Avenue      All
Painted Lakes Boulevard and Benton Road All
Park Avenue and Burnett Avenue          All
 
      5.   Metra station: All intersections where stop sign(s) is/are posted.
   D.   Yield Streets: Any street designated by ordinance as a yield right of
way street and so posted is hereby declared to be a yield right of way street.
The driver of a vehicle in obedience to a yield right of way sign shall reduce
the speed of his vehicle to not more than twenty (20) miles per hour and shall
yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered the intersecting
street either from the right or left or which are approaching so closely on
such intersection as to constitute a hazard; but said driver having so yielded
may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or interferes with
the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right of way sign,
such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver's failure to
yield right of way.
   E.   Right-In, Right-Out Intersections:
      1.   At the intersection of East Burnett Avenue and Milwaukee Avenue
(Route 83), vehicle movements from Milwaukee Avenue (Route 83) onto Burnett
Avenue shall be limited to right-turns only and vehicle movements from Burnett
Avenue onto Milwaukee Avenue (Route 83) shall be limited to right-turns only.
(Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970; Ord. 97-4-1, 4-9-1997; Ord. 2003-08-03, 8-27-2003; Ord.
2004-12-03, 12-22-2004; Ord. 2005-09-04, 9-28-2005; Ord. 2024-01-03, 1-8-2024;
Ord. 2024-09-01, 9-3-2024)
7-1-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Operations Restricted:
      1.   Public Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate,
drive or ride on any minibike, go-cart and other similarly operated motor
driven vehicle (exclusive of motorcycles) on any public street, alley or
thoroughfare, or upon the publicly owned property.
      2.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate,
drive or ride on any minibike, go-cart or motorcycle on privately owned
property without first having obtained the written permission of the owner of
said property.
   B.   Regulations: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike,
go-cart or motorcycle anywhere within the corporate limits of the village:
      1.   In such a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual
noise so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      2.   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any persons;
      3.   Without having first complied with all of the requirements under 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes relating to required equipment on said vehicles,
such as lights, horns, mufflers, brakes, licenses and like regulations. (Ord.
86-6-3, 6-11-1986)
   C.   Liability Of Operator, Parent:
      1.   Any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides
with such parent or legal guardian is jointly and severally liable together
with such minor for any violation of any of the terms or provisions of this
chapter by such minor operator.
      2.   Any parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor operator who
resides with such parent or legal guardian shall be found liable for actual
damages for the wilful or malicious acts of such minor which caused injury to
any person or property of any person, as provided for in statutes in this case
made and provided in 740 Illinois Compiled Statutes entitled "injuries". (Ord.
2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
7-1-5: SPEED LIMITS:
No vehicle may be driven in excess of the following maximum speed limits:
 
Village Street                                Speed Limit
Burnett Avenue east of the railroad tracks    30 mph
Park Avenue between Route 83 and Grand Avenue 30 mph
All alleys                                    15 mph
 
(Ord. 2001-6-9, 6-27-2001)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING; STOPPING; STANDING
SECTION:
7-2-1: General Regulations; Settlement
7-2-2: Parking Prohibitions
7-2-3: Snow Removal Parking Restrictions
7-2-4: Time Limit Parking
7-2-5: Parking At Curb
7-2-6: Parking Vehicles For Sale
7-2-7: Loading; Zones
7-2-8: Parking In Alleys; Loading
7-2-9: Cab Stands; Bus Stands
7-2-10: Parking On Private Property
7-2-11: Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions
7-2-12: Parking Of Certain Vehicles Restricted On Public Streets
7-2-13: Penalty
7-2-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS; SETTLEMENT:
   A.   Fines Established For Violations: Except as otherwise provided in
subsection E below, the fine charged for any violation of this chapter shall be
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, except as provided below.
   B.   Settlement: Any violation of this chapter (other than a violation of
section
7-2-11, "Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions", of this chapter and other than
any violation for unauthorized parking in any area designated as a fire lane)
may be settled and compromised by the payment of a fine as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code prior to the initial court date or hearing.
   C.   Payment; Receipt: Payment of fines for parking violations may be made
at the Village Hall, and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received,
and such money deposited in the General Corporate Fund. Upon said payment, the
Police Department is directed to refrain from instituting a prosecution for the
violation.
   D.   Parking Ticket Form: The Village Board may, from time to time,
prescribe a parking ticket form to be used by the Police Department.
   E.   Handicapped Parking And Fire Lane Fines: The mandatory daily fine for
violations of section
7-2-11, "Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions", of this chapter and the fine
for unauthorized parking in any area designated as a fire lane shall be the
fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, per violation.
   F.   Separate Offense: Each day a violation occurs or continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   G.   Towing Of Cars For Violations: Any sworn officer of the Village's
Police Department is hereby authorized to cause the removal and towing away by
a commercial towing service of any vehicle illegally parked in any place where
such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of
a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any emergency
vehicle, or any vehicle which has been parked in any public street or other
public place for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive hours or more.
      Any vehicle so towed away shall be stored by the Village at either a
private storage facility or on Village property and shall be restored to the
owner thereof after payment by the vehicle owner to the Village of any required
administrative towing or impoundment provided by this Code after payment by the
vehicle owner to the respective storage facility of any fees for towing and
storage of said vehicle(s) and of any other expenses incurred by the Village in
removing and storing said vehicle(s).
   H.   Signs: Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is
limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 2013-
08-03, 8-14-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
7-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Parking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand
at any time in any of the following places, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a policeman
or traffic control device:
      At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable width
of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
      At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
      Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
      In a crosswalk.
      In any intersection.
      On any sidewalk or parkway.
      Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
      Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing.
      Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign on the
approaching side.
      Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
      Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly    signposted.
   B.   No Parking: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop, stand or park such vehicle in any of the following places, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic sign or signal and the
Corporate Authorities hereby direct the installation of signs at each of these
locations giving notice of these parking regulations:
      On both sides of Burnett Avenue from the corner of Sherwood Avenue
through Walden to the corner of Wesley and Kevin.
      On both sides of Cedar Lake Road from Grand Avenue to the south limits of
the Village of Lake Villa, Illinois.
      On both sides of Central Avenue from Grand Avenue (Illinois Route 132) to
Cedar Avenue.
      On the north side of Charlton Road between Huntington Circle and Hampton
Drive.
      On both sides of Grand Avenue, Illinois Route 132 or the right-of-way
thereof, from the west corporate limits of the Village of Lake Villa to the
east corporate limits of the Village of Lake Villa.
      On both sides of Heritage Parkway from Milwaukee Avenue (Illinois Route
83) to its terminus.
      On both sides of Lake Avenue, from Cedar Avenue to Milwaukee Avenue
(Illinois Route 83).
      On both sides of McKinley Avenue between Grand Avenue and Coventry Cove
Lane.
      On both sides of Milwaukee Avenue, Illinois Route 83 or the right-of-way
thereof, from the north corporate limits of the Village of Lake Villa to the
south corporate limits of the Village of Lake Villa.
      On both sides of Oak Knoll Drive along its entire length and on both
sides of Oak Lane. Signs shall be erected at these locations to read "Resident
Parking Only" and parking shall be so limited.
      On both sides of Painted Lakes Boulevard, from Grass Lake Road to Deep
Lake Road.
      On both sides of Rae Avenue (a/k/a Rae Lane) between West Park Avenue and
Wilton Avenue.
      On both sides of Savannah Springs Drive between Monaville Road and Summit
Court.
      On both sides of Thompson Lane, along its entire length.
      On both sides of Twin Oaks Drive between West Park Avenue and Wilton
Avenue. (Ord. 2019-07-03, 7-15-2019)
7-2-3: SNOW REMOVAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the Village when there has been an accumulation of snow in excess of
two inches (2") until the Village has removed said snow so that parking can
again be allowed. Signs indicating said restriction shall be posted within the
Village at conspicuous places. (Ord. 86-3-3, 3-26-1986)
7-2-4: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   Parking Time Limits And Other Parking Limitation Provided:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in
excess of the amount of time designated by ordinance and so posted. It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle inconsistent with the regulations designated by
ordinance and so posted.
   B.   Time Limit Parking Places:
      1.   No vehicle shall be parked for longer than two (2) hours at any time
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of
any day except Sunday and public holidays, nor at any time when an accumulation
of more than one inch (1") of snow has fallen, on that part of Cedar Avenue
from the westerly line of the Soo Line Railroad right-of-way, southwesterly on
Cedar Avenue to the westerly line of Grand Avenue.
      2.   All parking on the north side of the above portion of Cedar Avenue
shall be parallel to the curb in the places established and marked by pavement
lines, and on the south side of the above portion of Cedar Avenue, all vehicles
shall park at an angle to the curb as indicated by pavement lines, and all such
vehicles shall be parked only within the pavement lines and in no other way.
All vehicles parked at an angle shall be driven forward to the curb and with
the rear of the vehicle slanting towards the direction of traffic.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to permit any motor vehicle to park or stand on
McKinley Avenue from its intersection with Grand Avenue to a point one thousand
feet (1,000') South from said intersection.
      4.   Parking at the Village owned parking lot located at 0 Cedar Avenue
(or such address as may hereafter be assigned) shall be prohibited between the
hours of three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., except in
designated overnight parking spaces. The use of the aforesaid Village parking
lot for Metra parking is prohibited. The driver of any vehicle shall not park
such vehicle for longer than four (4) hours at any time from the hours of five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. to twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight in the Village parking
lot at 0 Cedar Avenue, unless specifically authorized and/or directed to do so
by an authorized representative of the Village.
   C.   Metra Station Parking Lot:
      1.   Parking Permitted; Limitations:
         a.   The parking of a motor vehicle shall not be allowed between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and four fifty-nine o’clock (4:59)
A.M. anywhere within the Metra Station parking lot. Parking within the Metra
parking lot shall be permitted between the hours of five o’clock (5:00) A.M.
and eleven o’clock (11:00) A.M. on the same day pursuant to and upon payment of
the required daily fee for parking during such hours, which fee shall be as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
         b.   There shall be no charge for parking a motor vehicle in the Metra
Station parking lot between the hours of 11:01 A.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00)
midnight, provided, however, parking during such hours shall be limited to
those parking spaces for which a fee is not required to be paid. The driver of
said vehicle, or his or her designee, is required to remove any such vehicle
from said parking lot before twelve o’clock (12:00) midnight.
      2.   Parking is available on a first-come, first-served basis provided
that the daily fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code has been paid by depositing such daily fee at the
Metra Station parking lot in the designated parking slot corresponding to the
numbered stall within which the vehicle is parked.
      3.   Fees for parking in the Metra parking lot shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      4.   As an alternative to payment of a daily fee for parking, a monthly
parking fee in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code may be paid in advance for each separate vehicle,
which will allow such vehicle to be parked in the Metra Station parking lot,
provided the funds for such monthly parking fee are received prior to the month
in which such vehicle is parked. The program for how these funds are received
shall be determined by the Village.
      5.   It shall be a violation of this chapter to park a vehicle within the
Metra Station parking lot without having deposited the required daily fee into
the designated parking slot corresponding to the numbered stall within which
the vehicle is parked, and/or without properly displaying a current pre-paid
monthly parking pass on the rear-view mirror of such vehicle, and/or for
parking a vehicle in said parking lot between the hours of 12:01 A.M. and 4:59
A.M.
      6.   No vehicle shall be parked for longer than ten (10) minutes at any
time between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
of any day except Sunday and holidays, on that part of the Metra Station
parking lot, which is designated and posted loading/unloading zone (kiss/ride).
      7.   No vehicle shall be parked for longer than two (2) hours at any time
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on
any day except on any Sunday and on any holidays, in that part of the Metra
Station parking lot, which is designated and posted as two (2) hour parking.
   D.   Other Parking Restrictions:
      1.   No vehicle shall park on Cedar Avenue from Railroad Avenue to the
Village's parking facility, located at 0 Cedar Avenue, or such assigned address
except to use or visit a business located on or near Cedar Avenue. Parking at
this location is not permitted for use of parks or any other purpose, other
than for a business purpose as described in this section.
(Ord. 2017-04-01, 4-12-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024; Ord. 2025-07-04,
7-21-2025)
7-2-5: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb,
except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
such marks. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-2-6: PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any street from which
vehicle merchandise is peddled or sold. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-2-7: LOADING; ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, in any place designated by the Village Board as a loading zone and
marked as such, or in any of the following designated places:
At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb before the
entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb line before
the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. except on a Sunday.
Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the theater
is open. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-2-8: PARKING IN ALLEYS; LOADING:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except for the purpose of
loading and unloading merchandise and then in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-2-9: CAB STANDS; BUS STANDS:
   A.   No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked, stopped, and/
or standing in any area designated by ordinance and/or appropriate signage as a
"cab stand".
   B.   Bus Stands: No vehicle other than a PACE bus or PACE shuttle bus shall
be parked, stopped, or standing in any area designated by ordinance and/or
appropriate signage as a "bus stop".
   C.   Regulation Of Unscheduled Stops And Unloading Of Passengers By
Intercity Vehicles:
      1.   Definitions: The terms used in this Section
7-2-9 shall be defined as follows:
      APPLICATION: A request for approval to stop and unload passengers in the
Village on a form to be provided by the Village's Chief of Police, or his or
her designee, that meets all of the requirements of this Section
7-2-9.
      APPROVAL: A written notice signed by the Village of Lake Villa Chief of
Police, or his or her designee, which approves an application submitted in
conformance with this Section
7-2-9.
      CHIEF OF POLICE: The Chief of Police of the Village of Lake Villa Police
Department, or his or her designee.
      INTERCITY VEHICLE: Any bus, recreational vehicle, or other vehicle used
for transporting more than six (6) or more individuals and/or their respective
personal property between the Village and locations outside of the Village, but
shall not include or apply to: (i) vehicles owned or leased by the Village or
the Regional Transportation Authority, including but not limited to the
suburban bus commonly known as " Pace"; (ii) school buses while providing
transportation services to schools and/or to other educational institutions;
(iii) taxicabs, limousines, ridesharing vehicles, including Ubers and Lyfts, or
similar vehicles used for private hire by persons working or residing within
the Village or by persons visiting a specific residence or place of business
located within the Village when allowed or authorized by the owner of the
property; (iv) nor shall it apply to the disembarking of passengers arriving in
the Village for purposes of participating in Village-sponsored event(s); (v) a
commercial undertaking at a Village business or businesses; or (vi) a private
event sponsored by an individual or individuals such as a wedding or party for
which transportation has been arranged in advance.
      REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: A transportation service that operates trips
involving the dropping off of passengers in the Village on a predictable and
recurring basis, following a schedule that is published in advance and
available to the general public, and provides service in exchange for paying a
fare.
      UNSCHEDULED STOP BY INTERCITY VEHICLE(S): Any location in the Village
where individuals are dropped off by an intercity vehicle that originated from
a location outside of the Village by a private or public transportation service
that is not providing regularly scheduled transportation service within the
Village and not
operating pursuant to the written approval of the Chief of Police pursuant to
this Section
7-2-9.
   D.   No Unscheduled Stops By Intercity Vehicles: It shall be a violation of
this Section for the owner, operator, or driver of any intercity vehicle to
make an unscheduled stop for the purpose of dropping off passengers in the
Village.
   E.   The parking, stopping, or standing of an intercity vehicle is
prohibited by this Section unless such vehicle has the prior written approval
by the Chief of Police or his or her designee as required by this Section, and
no exception to this Section shall be granted and/or provided unless expressly
stated in this Section.
   F.   Application: The owner, operator, or driver of any intercity vehicle
that is not providing regularly scheduled service that desires to make a stop
to drop off passengers in the Village shall submit an application to the Chief
of Police using a form provided by the Chief of Police. The completed
application and all required information shall be submitted to the Chief of
Police for his or her approval at least five (5) calendar days prior to the
date of the proposed drop-off. The application shall provide the following
information, including but not limited to:
      1.   The full name, full address, telephone numbers and email address(es)
of the owner(s), operator(s), and driver(s) of the intercity vehicle. The
mobile phone number of the driver of the intercity vehicle shall also be
provided.
      2.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers
and email address(es) of the entity or individual(s) that has or have either
directed, paid for, or financed the transport of the persons to be dropped off
in the Village by the intercity vehicle.
      3.   The full name of all persons that are proposed to be dropped off in
the Village along with copies of valid identification for each such person to
the extent that such identification exists or is or are in the possession of
each such passenger.
      4.   The name, address, or location in the Village at which the intercity
vehicle proposes to drop off passengers.
      5.   The date and time at which the passengers of the intercity vehicle
will be dropped off in the Village which shall only be allowed to occur between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on a Monday
through Friday, excluding any holidays.
      6.   The name and address of all locations from which the passengers of
any such intercity vehicle are being picked up for transport to the Village.
      7.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers,
as well as all email addresses of all entities or individuals that shall be
present in the Village to meet the subject intercity vehicle and receive the
passengers when they are dropped off.
      8.   A detailed plan shall be submitted to the Chief of Police together
with each such Application identifying how and for what period of time the
individuals being dropped off will be cared for, housed, and fed, either
temporarily or permanently, upon being dropped off in the Village. The plan
shall include the full names, full addresses, and land-line and mobile
telephone numbers as well as all of the respective email address(es) of all
persons that will be present at the date and time of the drop-off and
responsible for the care, housing and feeding of the passengers. The plan shall
be executed by the person(s) and/or by an authorized representative of the
entity that agrees to be responsible for the care of the individuals proposed
to be dropped off within the Village and by at least one (1) additional
individual who shall be required to be present to receive any such passengers
and be responsible for their care. The entity and the individual that will be
present to receive the passengers and be responsible for their care shall each
by their signature certify that such person and/or entity will be responsible
for providing the actions detailed in the plan.
   G.   Application Approval:
      1.   Within five (5) business days after receipt of a fully completed
application pursuant to this Section
7-2-9, the Chief of Police shall review same and undertake a review of the
information contained in the application to verify its truth and accuracy. If
the application is not complete, the Chief of Police shall, in writing, advise
the applicant of any additional information and/or terms needed to complete the
application. Failure of any person or entity to provide all required
information to the Chief of Police will cause any such application to be
rejected by the Village.
      2.   The Chief of Police' s review of the application shall take into
consideration administrative efficiency and available resources, public safety,
and orderly traffic flow, and an approval shall be subject to such conditions
and restrictions that the Chief of Police may impose in his or her sole
discretion (including without limitation, those addressing day/time
availability of any such location(s), number of daily arrivals/departures to
and from any such location(s), and advance notification requirements by the
applicant).
      3.   If the Chief of Police denies the application, it shall be based
upon a determination that the loading/unloading of passengers, luggage or other
personal property within the Village at that time, or at that particular
designated bus stop, bus stand, passenger loading/unloading zone or other
location presents an unreasonable threat to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public and/or impedes the safe and efficient flow of traffic or imposes an
unreasonable burden on available resources. If the Chief of Police denies the
application, the Chief of Police shall send by email or by regular U.S. mail a
written notification to the applicant specifying the reason(s) for the
decision. Any applicant may seek review of the decision of the Chief of Police
denying such application through the administrative adjudication system of the
Village by filing a written request for review of such decisions within twenty-
one (21) days.
      4.   Within five (5) business days after receiving a fully completed
application, the Chief of Police, provided he/she has not determined that any
information in the application is false, untrue, and/or inaccurate in any
manner, shall inform the applicant in writing via email and by regular U.S.
mail that the application is approved. The Chief of Police shall further
provide a telephone number to the applicant or to the driver of the respective
intercity vehicle to coordinate the arrival of such intercity vehicle in the
Village.
   H.   Violations: It shall be a violation of this Section
7-2-9 for any individual or entity to violate any of the provisions of this
Section
7-2-9 and/or engage in the following action(s):
      1.   The submission of an application that is false, untrue, or
inaccurate in any manner.
      2.   The failure of any entity or individual that is responsible for the
care, housing, or feeding of any passengers dropped off in the Village to
promptly implement the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved
application.
      3.   Making an unscheduled stop by an intercity vehicle or bus in the
Village.
      4.   Initiating any transportation of person(s) and/or property to the
Village without the required approval by the Chief of Police of the stop
location without submitting an application and/or failing to obtain approval of
an application as required by this Section
7-2-9.
   I.   Penalties: Any person or entity found liable pursuant to the Village's
administrative adjudication system and/or pursuant to the finding of any court
of competent jurisdiction, of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this Section
7-2-9, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a mandatory fine as
provided by Section
1-4-1 of this Village Code, but in no event shall the fine for any such offense
be less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each offense. A separate
offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person or
entity shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist
after notification thereof. The Village at its discretion may enforce this
Section
7-2-9 by: (1) a quasi-criminal action seeking the payment of a monetary penalty
adjudicated pursuant to the administrative adjudication system of the Village;
and/or (2) an action seeking monetary and injunctive relief filed in the
Circuit Court or any other Court having jurisdiction over the violator.
   J.   Seizure And Impoundment Of Intercity Vehicle:
      1.   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a violation of
this Section
7-2-9 has occurred, the intercity vehicle shall be subject to seizure and
impoundment by the Village in addition to any other monetary penalty or other
remedy that the Village may pursue. The police officer may in the exercise of
discretion provide for the towing of such intercity vehicle to a facility
approved by the Chief of Police.
      2.   Upon the towing of any such intercity vehicle pursuant to this
Section, the police officer shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify
the owner of record, lessee, person claiming to be the owner or lessee, or any
person who is found to be in control of the intercity vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner' s
right to request an administrative hearing on such seizure.
   K.   Administrative Tow Hearing:
      1.   Within five (5) business days after an intercity vehicle is seized
and impounded as provided by this Section
7-2-9, the Village shall notify, by personal service, first class mail, or
certified mail, the owner of record, lessee, and any lienholder of record of
the owner's right to request a hearing to determine whether a violation of this
Section
7-2-9 actually occurred. The name and address of the person to whom a vehicle
is registered as shown on the records of the State in which the vehicle is
registered shall be conclusive evidence of the name and address of the owner of
record of the vehicle, unless the owner of record gave the Village actual
written notice of a different name or address.
      2.   In order to obtain a hearing, the owner of record must file a
written request for a hearing with the Records Division of the Police
Department no later than ten (10) business days after the date the notice was
mailed. The hearing date must be scheduled for a date that is no more than
fifteen (15) business days after a request for a hearing has been filed. The
person requesting the hearing shall be given at least five (5) business days'
notice of the date of the hearing.
      3.   The hearing shall be conducted by the Administrative Adjudication
Hearing Officer (the "Hearing Officer") of the Village appointed in accordance
with Chapter 14 of this Village Code ("Code Hearing Department/Administrative
Adjudication System", of Title 1, " Administrative Regulations"). The owner of
the intercity vehicle shall have the right to be represented by an attorney;
the right to notice of the charges causing the seizure and impoundment of the
intercity vehicle; the right to present witness and documentary evidence, and
the right to cross-examine all witnesses.
      4.   If, after the hearing, the Administrative Adjudication Hearing
Officer determines, by a preponderance of evidence, that a violation of this
Section
7-2-9 has occurred involving the seized and impounded intercity vehicle or bus,
then the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of record of the vehicle liable to the Village for the
administrative fee of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), which shall be
in addition to any other penalties, mandatory fine(s) and remedy sought by the
Village.
      5.   If, after a hearing, the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer
does not determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the vehicle was
used in violation of Section
7-2-9 of this Code, the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer shall enter
an order finding for the owner and ordering the return of the vehicle.
      6.   If the owner of record fails to request a hearing on the seizure and
impoundment of an intercity vehicle in a timely manner or fails to appear at
the hearing, the owner of record shall be deemed to have waived the owner's
right to a hearing, and the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer may
enter a default order in favor of the Village in the amount of the
administrative fee(s). However, if the owner of record pays such fee(s) and the
vehicle is returned to the owner, no default order need be entered if the owner
is informed of his or her right to a hearing and executes a written waiver of
such right to a hearing, in which case, an order of liability shall be deemed
to have been made when the Village receives the written waiver.
   L.   Requirements For Recovery Of A Seized And Impounded Intercity Vehicle
Or Bus: A vehicle impounded pursuant to this Section
7-2-9 shall remain impounded until:
      1.   The administrative fee(s) of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($
750.00) are paid to the Village and all applicable towing fees are paid to the
towing agent, in which case, the owner of record shall be given possession of
the Intercity Vehicle; or
      2.   A bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($ 750.00) is
posted with the Village and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, at which time, the intercity vehicle will be released to the owner of
record; or
      3.   The intercity vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case, it shall
be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned
vehicles.
   M.   Posting Bond:
      1.   If a bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is
posted with the Police Department's Records Division or with the Village
Treasurer, the impounded intercity vehicle shall be released to the owner of
record, provided, however, the owner of the intercity vehicle or bus shall
still be liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
      2.   If, after an administrative hearing on the seizure and impoundment
of the intercity vehicle or bus, it is determined that the intercity vehicle
was used in violation of this Section 7-2-9, the posted bond shall be forfeited
to the Village; however, if a violation of this Section
7-2-9 is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond, and all towing fees shall be waived.
      3.   All bond money posted pursuant to this Chapter shall be held by the
Village until the Administrative Adjudication Hearing Officer issues a decision
or, if there is a judicial review, until a final order is entered in the
judicial proceeding in which review is sought.
   N.   Disposition Of An Unclaimed Intercity Vehicle: Any intercity vehicle
that is not reclaimed or subject to judicial review within thirty-five (35)
days after the Village's Administrative Hearing Officer issues a final written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as
provided by law.
   O.   Except where inconsistent with this Section or where the content
clearly provides otherwise, the towing and impoundment provisions of Section
7-6-6, "Towing and Impoundment", of Chapter 6, "Motor Vehicle Towing and
Impoundment", of Title 7, Motor Vehicles and Traffic", shall be applicable to
towing, seizures, impoundment made pursuant to this Section. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-
1970; amd. Ord. 2024-01-01, 1-8-2024)
7-2-10: PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property without
the consent of the owner of the property. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-2-11: HANDICAPPED PARKING AREA RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates or decals issued to a handicapped person, as defined by the
Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , or to a disabled veteran pursuant to the Illinois
Vehicle Code 2 , as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a
handicapped person or disabled veteran, in any parking place, including any
private or public off street parking facility, specifically reserved, by the
posting of an official sign as designated under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-301, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates. Any motor
vehicle bearing a handicapped license plate or a handicapped parking decal or
device containing the international symbol of access issued to handicapped
persons by any local authority, state, district, territory or foreign country
shall be recognized as a valid license plate or device and receive the same
parking privileges as residents of this State.
Any vehicle which is parked in violation of this section shall be subject to
being towed at the owner's expense. (Ord. 96-9-3, 9-11-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-159.1, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/3-609.
7-2-12: PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED ON PUBLIC STREETS:
   A.   Except as specifically provided below, truck-tractors, buses, courtesy
buses, public transit vehicles, hauler trailers, travel trailers, camping
trailers, campers, motor homes, pop up campers, house trailers, mobile homes,
recreational vehicles, off road vehicles and/or all-terrain vehicles, farm or
lawn tractors, or other implements of husbandry and/or landscaping maintenance
equipment, storage containers or pods, boats and boat trailers, personal
watercraft and personal watercraft trailers, and snowmobiles and snowmobile
trailers, all watercraft and all watercraft trailers, horse trailers, or
carriers, construction equipment or machinery, motorcycle trailers, or any
other similar vehicles, trailers or equipment, whether loaded or empty (all
hereinafter collectively referred to as "restricted vehicles") shall be and are
hereby prohibited from being parked, maintained, or permitted to remain parked
on any public highway, road, street, alley, or other public right-of-way within
the Village of Lake Villa. All terms used in this section shall have those
respective definitions provided in the Illinois Vehicle Code, as amended from
time to time, except as otherwise modified herein.
   B.   The foregoing notwithstanding, restricted vehicles may be parked on any
public highway, road, street, alley, or other public right-of-way within the
Village of Lake Villa as follows:
      1.   When said restricted vehicles are owned, leased, and utilized by
someone other than an owner or occupant of any premises in the vicinity, and
only if such restricted vehicles are parked on any public highway, road,
street, alley, or other public right-of-way within the Village of Lake Villa,
for the present and immediate purpose of either making deliveries to or a pick
up from premises in the vicinity or for the present and immediate purpose of
rendering service to the owners or occupants of such premises; or
      2.   For the purposes of the safe loading or unloading of persons,
equipment, or goods to or from premises in the vicinity for a period of not
more than a total of six (6) hours within a seven (7) day period (said period
commencing with the first day during which a vehicle is so parked). (Ord. 2005-
09-03, 9-28-2005)
7-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this
chapter, excluding any violation of section
7-2-11, "Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions", of this chapter or any
violation for unauthorized parking in any area designated as a fire lane, shall
be subject to mandatory daily fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues.
Any person convicted of a violation of section
7-2-11, "Handicapped Parking Area Restrictions", of this chapter or of any
violation for unauthorized parking in any area designated as a fire lane shall
be subject to mandatory daily fines as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2013-08-03,
8-14-2013; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Enforcement Of Code
7-3-3: Exemptions To Regulations
7-3-4: Application Of Regulations
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this title the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLES: Every device propelled by human power, upon which any person may
ride, having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than twenty inches
(20") in diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory of the village contiguous to and including a
highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway there are
buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not
limited to, hotels, banks, or office buildings, railroad stations, and public
buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one
side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every street or highway in respect to which owners
or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of access
to or from the same except at such points only as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over such street or highway.
CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of the
sidewalk lines at street intersections.
DRAG RACING: The act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any
street or highway in this village in a situation in which one of the motor
vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing
driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing
or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or against time on any
street or highway in this village.
DRIVERS: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the fire department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a state, county or village officer or employee in
response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion, or by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by tagliabue or equivalent closed cup
test device.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict; or where a highway
includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more apart, then every crossing
of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRES: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated upon
rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
POLICE OR POLICE OFFICER: All members of the regularly constituted police
department, special police, auxiliary police and marshals duly constituted and
appointed by proper authorities of the village.
PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the village, the county, any park district,
school district, the state of Illinois, or the United States government.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory of the village, contiguous to and including a
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such highway
for a distance of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved
with residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
REVERSIBLE LANE: A lane of a two (2) or more laned roadway upon which traffic
may be directed to move in either direction by means of lane control signals or
other devices, in conjunction with official signs.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle operated by or for a public or governmental
agency or by or for a private or religious organization solely for the
transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
SPEED CHANGE LANE: An auxiliary lane, including tapered areas, primarily for
the acceleration or deceleration of vehicles entering or leaving the through
traffic lanes.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
SUBURBAN DISTRICT: That portion of the village other than the business and
residence districts.
THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every highway or portion thereof at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop before
entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are erected as provided in
this title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
whether singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   For the purpose of this title, motor vehicles as a class shall be divided
into two (2) divisions:
   First: Those vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not more than
ten (10) persons.
   Second: Those vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or
the carrying of more than ten (10) persons.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign means the act of granting
the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic
within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left,
provided that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
intersection. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-3-2: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE:
   A.   Police, Obedience To: Members of the police department, special police,
auxiliary police and marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this section, or in
emergencies as public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order,
signal or direction of a policeman. Except in case of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct
traffic.
   B.   Firemen, Authority: The fire department officer in command or any
fireman designated by him, may exercise the powers and authority of a policeman
in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the fire department has
responded to an emergency call for as long as fire department equipment is on
the scene in the absence of or in assisting the police. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-3-3: EXEMPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this title regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver when approaching shall slow
down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a red or stop sign
or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   B.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency
call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law.
   C.   The provisions of this title regulating the movement and parking of
vehicles shall not apply to persons, equipment or vehicles while actually
engaged in installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street
pavements. (Ord. 70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
7-3-4: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
Any person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal. (Ord.
70-2-1, 2-2-1970)
CHAPTER 4
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
SECTION:
7-4-1: Annual Motor Vehicle License Required
7-4-2: Use Of Funds
7-4-3: Penalty
7-4-1: ANNUAL MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
An annual motor vehicle license fee for each calendar year shall be paid to the
village for any motor vehicle as described in this section where the owner or
lessee of the motor vehicle resides within the village (except as provided in
subsection D of this section), and for any commercial motor vehicle, which is
owned by, leased by, or utilized in a commercial business which is located
within the village.
   A.   All households within the village, whether located in single-family or
multi-family dwelling units, and regardless of whether such dwelling units are
owned or rented, shall be required to pay an annual motor vehicle license fee
per dwelling unit, which fee shall cover all of the annual motor vehicle
license fees for the current license year for that household.
   B.   The amount of such annual motor vehicle license fee shall be as
follows, provided however, the fee(s) for any commercial motor vehicles shall
be at the rates provided in subsection E of this section:
      1.   The annual motor vehicle license fee for all households located in
single-family dwellings, townhomes, and condominiums shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      2.   The annual motor vehicle license fee for all multi-family rental
units shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      3.   The annual motor vehicle license fee for all multiple-family rental
units located within a building reserved exclusively for senior housing shall
be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   C.   Annual motor vehicle license fees shall be billed in installments on
the sewer and water bill for the premises in question. The owners of multi-
family rental units shall be required to pay such annual motor vehicle license
fees for each dwelling unit owned, and then may recover the actual cost of said
annual motor vehicle license fees from their respective tenants. Households not
served by the village's water and sewer system will receive a separate bill for
only the annual motor vehicle license fee.
   D.   Households meeting the following criteria may apply for reduced annual
motor vehicle license fees:
      1.   Any household which includes as a member of such household a senior
citizen resident (65 years of age and older) who owns or rents the household
premises shall be required to pay an annual motor vehicle license fee of as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, provided however, the fee(s) for any commercial
motor vehicles shall be at the regular rates provided in subsection E of this
section.
      2.   Any household where none of the members of such household own or
operate any motor vehicle and do not regularly garage, store or park a motor
vehicle overnight in the village shall not be required to pay an annual motor
vehicle license fee.
      3.   Any household in the village which includes as a member of such
household as an owner or tenant of the premises a person who is on active duty
as a member of the armed forces of the United States of America shall not be
required to pay an annual motor vehicle license fee.
      On an annual basis before January 1 of each license year, any household
seeking a reduced annual motor vehicle license fee or exemption from payment of
such annual motor vehicle license fee as specified in this section shall
complete an application provided by the village treasurer for such reduced
annual motor vehicle license fee or exemption and shall submit to the village
with said application sufficient proof that their request meets the criteria
necessary to qualify for a reduced annual motor vehicle license fee or
exemption, as the case may be. The village shall provide to each household
approved for receiving a reduced annual motor vehicle license fee or exemption,
written evidence of such approved fee reduction or exemption.
   E.   The owner or lessee of each commercial motor vehicle, which is owned
by, leased by, or utilized in a commercial business which is located within the
village shall pay annual motor vehicle license fees as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   F.   Upon payment of the required annual motor vehicle license fee(s), the
village shall provide to said household, or to the owner, operator, or lessee
of such motor vehicle(s), as the case may be, motor vehicle license sticker(s)
for the subject motor vehicle(s), if so requested. Display of motor vehicle
license sticker(s) shall not be required, except as needed as evidence of
residency for access to and/or parking at village recreational facilities.
(Ord. 2006-09-03, 9-27-2006, eff. 1-1-2007; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
7-4-2: USE OF FUNDS:
All revenue derived from such annual motor vehicle license fees shall be used
for the purpose of improving, paving, repairing or maintaining the streets and
other public roadways within the village, provided that the actual cost of the
collection of such fees and the disbursements thereof may be deducted from the
total amount collected for the general corporate fund, and provided further,
that fifteen percent (15%) of such annual motor vehicle license fees may be
paid into the general corporate fund for the payment of salaries and wages of
policemen engaged in the duty of regulating traffic. (Ord. 2006-09-03, 9-27-
2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
7-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a mandatory daily fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each day that a violation occurs or continues. For the purposes of this
chapter, a "person" shall mean and include any individual, partnership,
association, corporation or any other legal entity. (Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-
2013; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 5
RESERVED
(Ord. 2013-07-02, 7-24-2013)
CHAPTER 6
MOTOR VEHICLE TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Application For Tow List
7-6-3: Investigation And Approval
7-6-4: Insurance
7-6-5: Duties And Requirements Of Tow Operators On Rotation Tow List
7-6-6: Towing And Impoundment
7-6-7: Operation Of Rotation Tow List
7-6-8: Tow Trucks For Semitractor Trailer Vehicles
7-6-9: Removal From Rotation Tow List
7-6-10: Solicitation Of Business
7-6-11: Tow Truck Operation
7-6-12: Storage Facility
7-6-13: Tow Operator Personnel Qualifications
7-6-14: Violation And Penalty
7-6-15: Termination Of Rotation Tow Procedure
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The Lake Villa police department.
ROTATION TOW LIST: A list maintained by the Lake Villa police department
containing the names of those tow operators approved by the chief of police to
respond to requests by the police department dispatcher for the towing and/or
impounding of vehicles which are disabled where the person in charge of the
vehicle has no preference for any particular tow service or is unable to make
such a decision. The list shall also be utilized: a) to tow village owned
vehicles in need of service to a location designated by the police department;
and b) to tow vehicles impounded by the police department for evidentiary
reasons.
TOW OPERATOR: A person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of, or
offering the services of, vehicle towing and/or impounding whereby motor
vehicles are or may be towed or otherwise removed from one place to another by
use of a tow truck.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa, Lake County, Illinois. (Ord. 2008-10-02,
10-22-2008)
7-6-2: APPLICATION FOR TOW LIST:
The Lake Villa police department shall maintain a "rotation tow list" as
defined in section 7-6-1 of this chapter. Any person, firm, and/or corporation
desiring to perform towing and/or vehicle impound work at the request of the
police department shall obtain from the police department, complete, and submit
to the chief of police an "application for rotation tow list" for consideration
and approval for placement on the village's rotation tow list. Such
applications will be accepted by the chief of police between January 1 and
December 1 of each year. By submitting an application to be placed on the
village's rotation tow list, the applicant agrees to and shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter as well as the other applicable village ordinances
and the rules and regulations of the applicable governmental agencies. The
rotation tow list established by the police department will be in effect on an
annual basis from January 1 to December 31 of each year. An approved tow
operator currently on the rotation tow list who wishes to reapply for placement
on the list for the next year must submit to the chief of police, between
January 1 and December 1 of the preceding year, a letter of intent, which
letter must include all information that is changed or different from the
information submitted on the tow operator's original application, and supply to
the police department a new certificate of insurance that complies with the
provisions of section 7-6-4 of this chapter, as may be amended from time to
time. There will be no less than two (2) nor more than four (4) tow operators
maintained on the rotation tow list at any given time except in cases when a
tow operator may be removed temporarily from the list as defined in section 7-
6-9 of this chapter. Applications shall include the following information:
   A.   Name of tow operator;
   B.   Business and home address;
   C.   Business and home phone numbers;
   D.   The name of the firm under which the tow operator will operate;
   E.   The location, size and security features of the storage lot on which
the towed vehicles will be stored;
   F.   The location to which the public must come to claim stored or impounded
vehicles;
   G.   A statement of willingness to provide full service to the police
department on a twenty four (24) hour a day basis each day of the year;
   H.   A list of towing equipment and its size and capacity;
   I.   Certificate of insurance as required by this chapter;
   J.   Carriers, agents, and subcontractors that the owner would place into
effect upon approval;
   K.   A description of the communication system to be used on each tow truck
and at the office where calls are received;
   L.   A disclosure of ownership statement; and
   M.   Equal employment opportunity statement. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-3: INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL:
Within sixty (60) days after receiving an application for rotation tow list,
the police department shall conduct an investigation of the applicant to
determine the accuracy of the information contained in said application. As
part of the approval process, a tow operator's towing equipment shall be
inspected by a police officer designated by the chief of police. If a tow
operator is approved and placed on the rotation tow list, the tow operator
agrees to and shall permit the village at the discretion of the chief of
police, to inspect said tow operator's equipment every six (6) months. Upon
completion of the police department's investigation and inspection of the tow
operator's equipment, the tow operator will be notified in writing, by regular
mail, at the address provided by the tow operator on the application, that the
application is either approved and the tow operator has been placed on the
rotation tow list, or disapproved, with the reasons for such disapproval stated
in the written notification. No tow operator's application shall be disapproved
unless:
   A.   The applicant has knowingly furnished false or misleading information,
or withheld relevant information on the application;
   B.   The applicant does not and will not acquire insurance as required by
section 7-6-4 of this chapter;
   C.   The applicant or any of its owners have been permanently removed from
the rotation tow list for cause pursuant to section 7-6-9 of this chapter;
   D.   The applicant fails to qualify under section 7-6-13 of this chapter;
   E.   At any time the towing equipment does not meet the standards required
by the village for towing. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-4: INSURANCE:
The tow operator shall be required to maintain, at its sole cost, insurance as
set forth in this section, which insurance must remain in full force and effect
at all times that the tow operator is or remains on the village's rotation tow
list. All insurance policies shall name as insured the tow operator, its
carriers, agents, employees, and subcontractors. All insurance policies shall
also name as additional insured the police department, the village, and their
respective officers, employees, and agents. The tow operator shall deliver to
the village written evidence of such insurance in the form of a certificate of
insurance prior to being placed on the rotation tow list. Insurance to be
carried by the tow operator shall include, but not be limited to: a) general
liability insurance coverage for the use and operation of any truck(s) of two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) per person, five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence; b) an umbrella liability policy in the
minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
In addition to the above, the tow operator shall be required to keep in full
force and effect at all times that the tow operator is or remains on the
village's rotation tow list, insurance coverage meeting minimum requirements as
follows:
   A.   Comprehensive General Liability: Must include the following industry
standard forms of insurance:
      1.   Premises/operation coverage;
      2.   Products and completed operations coverage;
      3.   Blanket contractual liability;
      4.   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) combined single limit,
or five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) bodily injury, and two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) property damage.
   B.   Comprehensive Auto Liability: Must include the following endorsements:
      1.   All owned autos, hired car coverage, and employers' nonowned auto
coverage;
      2.   The policy shall not contain a radius restriction of less than fifty
(50) miles;
      3.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) on-hook liability.
   C.   Garage Keepers' Legal Liability Or Motor Truck Cargo: The vendor shall
provide coverage for the vehicles in their custody. Either a motor truck cargo
policy, listing all storage lots as terminal locations, or garage keepers'
legal liability shall be required. The minimum amount of coverage shall be no
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
   D.   Workers' Compensation And Employers' Liability: Statutory limits for
workers' compensation and a one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00)
employers' liability limit.
Each tow operator shall supply the village with a certificate of insurance,
which indicates coverage for the above mentioned minimum insurance requirements
which carries the provision that said insurance shall not be canceled without
giving the village at least thirty (30) days' written notice of cancellation or
material change. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-5: DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF TOW OPERATORS ON ROTATION TOW LIST:
   A.   The tow operator is responsible for providing a secured lot where the
vehicles are stored, with an office at that location and staffed during
reasonable business hours. The storage lot shall be located within ten (10)
miles of the village limits.
   B.   All tow trucks shall be equipped with warning lights and all other
equipment required by state law including one or more brooms and shovels, oil
dry chemical, one or more trash cans at least eighteen inches (18") in height,
and one fire extinguisher of a dry chemical or carbon dioxide type with an
aggregate rating of at least 4B.C units and bearing the approval of a qualified
laboratory for this purpose; and have working two-way communication equipment
on the same commercial frequency as the base station located at the point where
calls are received. All tow trucks shall also be equipped to safely transport
motorcycles.
   C.   The tow operator shall possess a valid certification from the Illinois
commerce commission.
   D.   Each tow operator shall provide twenty four (24) hour per day service
each day of the year for police related tows. There shall be an attendant or
answering service on duty at all times for the purpose of receiving calls, and
there shall be a person on call at all times for the purpose of releasing
stored vehicles or for receiving vehicles.
   E.   The tow operator shall sign an agreement to indemnify and save the
village harmless from any liability for damages sustained by vehicles by being
towed or stored and for all personal injuries occurring to any of the firms,
employees or other persons and shall maintain the required insurance policies.
   F.   Tow operators shall permit vehicle owners to remove personal property
as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-203(g):
Any personal property belonging to the vehicle owner in a vehicle subject to a
lien under this subsection (g) shall likewise be subject to that lien,
excepting only: food; medicine; perishable property; and operator's licenses;
any cash, credit cards, or checks or checkbooks; and any wallet, purse, or
other property containing any operator's license or other identifying documents
or materials, cash, credit cards, checks or checkbooks
from vehicles stored at their facility during business hours at no charge.
(Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-6: TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Circumstances Authorizing Towing And/Or Impoundment Of Vehicles: The
towing and/or impounding of a vehicle shall occur at the request of the police
department when such towing and/or impoundment is authorized by the Illinois
vehicle code or this code, or when impoundment is authorized by the police
department or by any other law enforcement agency as evidence or by a court
related to a crime or for the purposes of investigating a crime.
   B.   Towing And Storage Charges: The collection of towing and storage
charges from the owner or driver of the towed and/or impounded vehicle shall be
the sole responsibility of the tow operator or his employee. In addition, the
village will only be responsible for paying towing fees to a towing operator
where the vehicle in question is: 1) village owned; 2) a lawfully seized
vehicle after forfeiture has been approved by a court, pursuant to the
provision of chapter 4, article II of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq.; 3) an abandoned vehicle that remains
unclaimed and may be disposed of as junk, pursuant to the provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-209; or 4) where towing and impoundment is
otherwise authorized by this code or the Illinois vehicle code 1 . In no event
shall the village be responsible for any storage costs for any abandoned
vehicle, as that term is defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101.05.
   C.   Releasing Vehicles; Records: All tow operators on the rotation tow list
shall be required to maintain complete records related to a tow and/or
impoundment of a vehicle and a system of releasing vehicles that assures
vehicles are released only to the rightful vehicle owner, or authorized person.
All such records shall be open to the police department and available for
inspection during the tow operator's normal business hours or at such time as
there exists a dispute concerning the amount or validity of any towing or
storage charges. In addition, all tow operators shall use receipt forms of a
type and manner that contain adequate information pertaining to the date, time
and location of the tow, the description, registration and vehicle
identification number ("VIN") of the vehicle, the charges incurred, and the
person(s) to whom the vehicle was released.
   D.   Administrative Fees And Procedures For Towing And Impounding Vehicles
For Specified Violations:
      1.   As authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.7 of the
Illinois vehicle code, in order to defray the administrative and processing
costs incurred by the village associated with the investigation, arrest, and
detention of an offender, and the removal, impoundment, storage, and release of
the vehicle driven by such offender, a mandatory administrative fee is hereby
authorized and imposed which shall be in the amount as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, and which administrative fee shall be in addition
to any fees charged for the towing and storage of an impounded vehicle. The
administrative fee shall be waived by the village upon verifiable proof that
the vehicle in question was stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded. Such
administrative fee under this section shall be and is hereby imposed for the
following violations, in addition to any fees charged for towing and
impoundment as hereby authorized pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-208.7 in such cases:
         a.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 1961; or
         b.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code or of a similar provision of this
code; or
         c.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act; or
         d.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
         e.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of sections 24-1, 24-1.5, 24-3.1
of the criminal code of 1961; or
         f.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate
a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the
Illinois vehicle code or of a similar provision of this code; except that
vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is
for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with
emission testing; or
         g.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act;
or
         h.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code or of a
similar provision of this code, if the period of expiration is greater than one
year; or
         i.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been
issued a driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the
Illinois vehicle code or of a similar provision of this code, or operating a
motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's license or permit due
to a person's age; or
         j.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the
Illinois vehicle code or of a similar provision of this code; or
         k.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 or 16A of the
criminal code of 1961; or
         l.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
the criminal code of 1961.
      2.   The following shall apply to any fees imposed for administrative and
processing costs pursuant to subsection D1 of this section:
         a.   All such administrative fees as authorized by this section and
towing and storage charges shall be imposed on the registered owner of the
motor vehicle or the agents of that owner.
         b.   All such administrative fees as authorized by this section shall
be in addition to: 1) any other penalties that may be assessed by a court of
law or an administrative hearing officer for the underlying violations; and 2)
any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
         c.   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the village.
         d.   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and
paid to the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the towed impounded
vehicle.
      3.   The owner of record, lessee, or a lienholder of record of any
vehicle(s) impounded under this section shall have an opportunity for a
hearing, as provided in subdivision (b)(4) of section 11-208.3 of the Illinois
vehicle code 2 , and for the release of the vehicle(s) upon payment of all
administrative fees and towing and storage fees.
      4.   The following additional rules and procedures shall be applicable to
the impoundment and release of vehicles pursuant to this section, and to the
extent inconsistent with the other provisions of this code, the rules and
procedures set forth in this section shall govern and control:
         a.   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to impoundment as provided by this section, the officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
village.
         b.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the village shall notify or
make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying
himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is
found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of
the fact of the seizure, and of the vehicle owner's or lessee's right to an
administrative hearing pursuant to this section.
         c.   The village shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the municipality
a cash deposit equal to the administrative fee as provided by this section and
pays for all towing and storage charges.
         d.   The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder
of record of any vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall be provided
with a notice of hearing. The notice shall:
            (1)   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of
record either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested
party's address as registered with the secretary of state;
            (2)   Be served upon interested parties within ten (10) days after
a vehicle is impounded by the village; and
            (3)   Contain the date, time, and location of the administrative
hearing. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, an initial
hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than forty five (45) days
after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
            (4)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment;
            (5)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the release of the
vehicle shall be forfeited to the village.
            (6)   Unless the hearing officer overturns the basis for the
vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid.
            (7)   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage
facility within thirty five (35) days after the hearing officer issues a
written decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with
the provisions of article II of chapter 4 of the Illinois vehicle code.
            (8)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine,
penalty, or administrative fee imposed under this section which remains unpaid
in whole or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial
review under the Illinois administrative review law may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2011-
12-01, 12-14-2011; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-208.3.
7-6-7: OPERATION OF ROTATION TOW LIST:
The police department shall ensure that tow operators on the rotation tow list
are called in the order of rotation as far as is practicable. The police
department shall not, except upon request of the owner, operator or person
legitimately in possession of the vehicle to be towed, call any tow truck not
on the rotation tow list unless all such approved tow operators are
unavailable. The police department is specifically permitted, where more
practical to do so, to call a tow operator out of the rotation sequence or to
contact a different towing service(s) not in the rotation tow list, where there
exists an urgent need for services of a tow truck and/or where specialized
towing and/or other vehicle services are or may be required. (Ord. 2008-10-02,
10-22-2008)
7-6-8: TOW TRUCKS FOR SEMITRACTOR TRAILER VEHICLES:
The police department shall attempt to maintain a separate rotation tow list of
tow operators capable of towing semitractor trailer vehicle(s) which rotation
tow list shall operate the same as the standard rotation tow list. (Ord. 2008-
10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-9: REMOVAL FROM ROTATION TOW LIST:
   A.   Chief Of Police, Authority To Remove Tow Operator: The chief of police
is authorized to remove any tow operator temporarily or permanently from the
rotation tow list upon it being determined that:
      1.   Placement of the tow operator on the rotation tow list was secured
by fraud or concealment of a material fact, which if known would have caused
disapproval of the tow operator's application;
      2.   The tow operator has violated any of the provisions of this chapter;
      3.   The service provided by the tow operator is or has been
substantially inadequate, which shall include, but not be limited to, failing
to be available for or not accepting calls, slow response time, excessive
damage claims, repeated complaints from citizens, or inadequate towing
equipment;
      4.   Failing to be available or not accepting calls as mentioned in
subsection A3 of this section will be defined to mean five (5) occasions within
a thirty (30) day period.
   B.   Temporary Removal: A tow operator may temporarily be removed from the
rotation tow list for not more than thirty (30) days at any one time. A tow
operator shall be given an opportunity to cure any default or violation of this
chapter within thirty (30) days of removal from the rotation tow list and shall
be reinstated on the rotation tow list upon its presenting sufficient evidence
to the chief of police that it has cured any such default or violation.
   C.   Pending Suspension/Removal: If the chief of police determines the
alleged offense does not constitute an immediate threat to the health, safety
or welfare of the public, the police chief shall provide the tow operator with
written notice at least fifteen (15) days prior to the effective date of the
temporary or permanent removal by delivering said notice to the tow operator's
place of business. Said written notice shall include: 1) the effective date of
the removal; 2) whether the removal is temporary or permanent; 3) the
allegations which form the basis of the removal; 4) the actions, if any, the
tow operator may take to prevent the removal from occurring; and 5) the
procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a hearing to appeal the
removal. If a hearing is requested, the mayor, or the mayor's designee, shall
act as the hearing officer. The hearing shall be informal and provide both
sides with the opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the removal. The
hearing officer shall issue a written decision based upon a preponderance of
the presented evidence within seven (7) days of the hearing. The opinion will
be sent to the tow operator's business address with a copy retained in the tow
operator's application file at the police department. The village or the tow
operator may contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner provided
by law.
   D.   Immediate Suspension/Removal: If the chief of police determines that a
tow operator presents an immediate threat to the health, safety or welfare of
the community, or if the tow operator has not provided proof of valid insurance
in the types and amounts required by this chapter, the chief of police may
remove the tow operator from the tow rotation list prior to any hearing. If the
chief of police finds just cause, he shall provide written notification to the
tow operator that the tow operator is being removed from the tow rotation list
immediately. Said written notice shall be delivered to the tow operator's place
of business on the first day the removal is effective, and shall state: 1) that
the removal is effective immediately; 2) whether the removal is temporary or
permanent; 3) the allegations forming the basis of the removal; and 4) the
procedure which the tow operator must follow to request a hearing to appeal the
removal. If a hearing is requested, the mayor, or the mayor's designee, shall
act as the hearing officer. The hearing(s) shall be informal and provide both
sides with the opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the removal. The
hearing officer shall issue a written decision based upon a preponderance of
the presented evidence within seven (7) days of the hearing. The opinion shall
be sent to the tow operator's business address, with a copy retained in the tow
operator's application file at the police department. If the decision favors
the tow operator, the hearing officer shall notify the police department so
that the tow operator's towing privileges may be reinstated as soon as
possible. The village or the tow operator may contest the decision of the
hearing officer in any manner provided by law.
   E.   Method Of Requesting Hearing: A tow operator must request a hearing by:
1) telephoning and speaking directly with the mayor within ten (10) days of
receiving a notice of removal; and 2) scheduling a hearing. Leaving a message
for the mayor will not satisfy this requirement. The mayor's office shall,
within three (3) business days of the request, set a date and time for the
hearing, and further, the hearing shall be held within ten (10) business days
from the date of the request for the hearing. If the tow operator is
unavailable at the time scheduled by the village, the village shall not be
bound by the time period as stated above, and the removal will not be stayed.
If the village is unable to schedule a hearing within the applicable time as
stated above, all action on removal of the tow operator shall be stayed until
the hearing. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-10: SOLICITATION OF BUSINESS:
No tow operator may respond to the scene of an accident or emergency for the
purpose of towing vehicles unless called there by the police department or
persons involved in the accident or emergency. Tow operators responding to an
accident or emergency at the request of a person other than a police officer,
must record the name and address of the person and make such information
available to the police department upon request.
This section is intended only to prohibit the soliciting of business at the
scene of accidents and emergencies, and shall not be construed to prohibit any
tow operator from contracting with any person; provided, that the tow operator,
his agents and employees, do not solicit tow contracts at the scene of
accidents or emergencies. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-11: TOW TRUCK OPERATION:
   A.   Every tow operator or driver of a tow truck shall remove or cause to be
removed all glass and debris deposited on any street or highway by the disabled
vehicle being serviced, and shall, in addition, spread oil dry upon that
portion of any street or highway where oil or grease has been deposited by the
disabled vehicle being serviced. No fees for this service shall be charged
unless it is a special or unusual spill that requires special handling for its
removal.
   B.   No tow operator or driver of a tow truck shall respond to a call for
service while under the influence of intoxicants.
   C.   Towed vehicles shall be taken to such location designated by the
vehicle owner, driver or agent, should such person not wish to store the
vehicle at the tow operator's facility; provided, however, that vehicles towed
upon the direction of the police department shall be towed to such a place as
designated by the police officer in charge at the scene.
   D.   When a tow operator tows a vehicle pursuant to a DUI arrest, as
authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-203(e), the tow operator shall
hold that vehicle in storage for twelve (12) hours or less as stated in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-203(e) and may only then release the vehicle to
the owner or as otherwise allowed with a police release during normal business
hours. Vehicles may be impounded longer as provided for by law by order of the
arresting officer.
   E.   When a tow operator tows a vehicle pursuant to a traffic arrest or
criminal arrest, the vehicle cannot be released until the registered owner
shows a police release.
   F.   Once notified of a tow, the tow operator will provide the police
department an approximate time it will take to arrive at the scene of a tow. If
a tow operator is unable to respond to a tow request within twenty (20)
minutes, the tow operator or his employee shall advise the police department
that he is not available. The tow operator will be marked unavailable. The
police dispatcher will then call the next tow operator on the list.
   G.   When a tow truck is canceled after being dispatched off the rotation
tow list, it shall be put back at the head of the list. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-
22-2008)
7-6-12: STORAGE FACILITY:
Each tow operator shall maintain a secure storage lot where all towed vehicles
can be safely stored. Said lot shall be enclosed by a fence not less than six
feet (6') in height and shall have a locked gate. All storage facilities must
meet all zoning and fire ordinances and restrictions. When instructed by the
police department that a vehicle in storage must be secured from tampering, the
operator shall store said vehicle so that it is not accessible to any person
except upon specific approval of the tow operator or his agent. A clearance of
twenty four inches (24") must be maintained around all vehicles from the
rotation tow list calls. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-13: TOW OPERATOR PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS:
No person who has been convicted under the laws of this state or any other
state of an offense which under the laws of the state of Illinois would be a
felony theft of a vehicle or a felony offense under article 1, chapter 4 of the
Illinois vehicle code, shall be approved as a tow operator to be placed on the
rotation tow list, nor shall any tow operator knowingly permit such a person to
operate a tow truck on the rotation tow list calls; provided, however, that a
person whose last conviction was more than four (4) years past, and who has
shown evidence of rehabilitation, may be approved if otherwise eligible.
Each tow operator shall furnish to the police department a complete and current
list of all drivers who may respond to rotation tow list calls. No driver shall
be permitted to respond to any rotation tow list call unless his name, date of
birth and driver's license number have been furnished to the police department
at least twenty four (24) hours in advance by the tow operator on forms
provided by the police department. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008)
7-6-14: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who is found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a mandatory daily fine as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this code for each offense, and each day a violation occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 2008-10-02, 10-22-2008; amd.
Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
7-6-15: TERMINATION OF ROTATION TOW PROCEDURE:
The village reserves the right to terminate its rotation tow procedure
unilaterally at any time without any notice and without recourse. (Ord. 2008-
10-02, 10-22-2008)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose And Scope
8-1-2: General
8-1-3: Permits, Certificate Of Occupancy, And Scope Of Regulations
8-1-4: Definitive Guidelines
8-1-5: Rules Adopted By Reference
8-1-6: Enforcement
8-1-7: Building Permits And Applicable Fees; Residential Registration Program
Established
8-1-8: Fines; Penalties; Costs
8-1-9: Road Bond
8-1-10: Driveway Permits
8-1-11: House Numbering
8-1-12: Subdivision Improvements
8-1-13: Regulations For Administration Of Building Code
8-1-14: Definitions
8-1-15: Appeals
8-1-16: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 5 of this code for subdivision housing controls.
8-1-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Regulations are hereby adopted for the purpose of governing the
construction, alteration, and repair of all buildings and structures, and parts
and appurtenances thereof, prefabrication, equipment or appliance installation,
and governing the maintenance thereof in a condition reasonably safe from the
hazards of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion, and the spread of infectious
disease; requiring permits; providing for administration; establishing rules
and regulations in reference thereto; and imposing penalties for violations
relating to residential use.
   B.   While the Village requires that, in many cases, a building permit is
required to be obtained from the Village prior to commencement of any work on a
structure or on property within the Village, the Village has established a
Residential Registration Program which requires registration with the Village
of the proposed work in lieu of obtaining a building permit, all as set forth
in this chapter.
   C.   Chapters 2 and 3, the Lake Villa one- and two-family dwelling code, of
this title shall govern one- and two-family dwellings, and chapter 4 of this
title, adopting the 2006 international building code or its current edition,
and other building codes, shall govern all other buildings and structures and
shall also be applicable to any subject matter not addressed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-18-2019)
8-1-2: GENERAL:
This chapter, including the rules and regulations adopted herein by reference,
is entitled the LAKE VILLA BUILDING CODE. The "letter" and "number" designation
used to set off or identify its various parts refer to articles, sections,
subsections, paragraphs, rules, regulations, or other divisions as the text or
arrangement may indicate. Reference to any one of these parts may be by such
designation alone. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-18-
2019)
8-1-3: PERMITS, CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY, AND SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permits Required: Except as otherwise provided by the Residential
Registration Program established by the Village and described in detail in
subsections A and B of section
8-1-7 of this Village Code, it is hereby required that any and all applicable
permits be obtained prior to the commencement of any construction activity and
that all other requirements of the respective building codes and other related
codes adopted from time to time by ordinance of the Corporate Authorities of
the Village be complied with whenever a building or structure located within
the corporate limits of the Village, or parts or appurtenances thereof,
including but not limited to water supply, sewage disposal, plumbing
installation, electrical installation, and heating equipment, is erected,
installed, altered, converted, remodeled, reroofed, structurally repaired,
moved, or changed. The cost of any such required permit(s) is as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   B.   Maintenance Required: All building(s) and/or structure(s) within the
village, and parts and appurtenances thereof, both existing and hereafter
constructed, erected, installed, altered, maintained, and/or repaired shall be
constructed, erected, installed, altered, maintained, and/or repaired in
compliance with this chapter, with section
8-4-6, “Property Maintenance Code; Adoption,” of chapter 4, “Other Building
Codes Adopted,” and the other applicable provisions of the village code so that
the occupants and users thereof and others are reasonably safe from the hazards
of fire, explosion, collapse, contagion and spread of infectious disease. If
said building(s) and/or structure(s) are not so maintained, the respective
owner(s) and occupants of such building and/or structure may be ordered by the
Building Officer or by a court of competent jurisdiction and required to
demolish and remove said building(s) and/or structure(s).
   C.   Scope: These rules and regulations set forth requirements which are
considered reasonable and are held in every instance to be the minimum for the
promotion of public health, safety, and general welfare.
   D.   Requirements; Certificate Of Occupancy: No building permit shall be
issued or residential registration allowed as required by this chapter and/or
the other applicable provisions of this Village Code for any building or other
structure to be constructed on any lot, parcel or tract of land, or on any
portion thereof, that does not conform with provisions of the plat act in force
from time to time, and the subdivision regulations and requirements of the Lake
County Health Department or the applicable regulations of other agencies
concerning sewage disposal and water supply and other applicable Village
ordinances, including, but not limited to, Title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of
the Village of Lake Villa Village Code, as amended from time to time. A
certificate of occupancy is required for all new principal structures,
accessory structures over two hundred (200) square feet, plumbing, electrical,
heating, cooling, and for a swimming pool.
   E.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to minimize the disruptive
effect building activity has on neighboring properties and residents and to
minimize the aesthetically displeasing nature of building activity by requiring
completion of construction within reasonable periods of time.
      1.   Principal Structures: Prior to commencement of any construction
activity on a principal structure, or any addition thereto, which requires the
issuance by the Village of a permit therefor, a building permit for such work
is required to be obtained from the Village, the fee for which building permit
shall be in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A building permit shall expire two (2) years from
the date of issuance. In the event that the structure and/or any addition
thereto and/or remodeling thereof which requires a permit therefor has not been
completed and a certificate of occupancy has not been issued within the two (2)
year time frame, a renewal building permit, which shall expire six (6) months
after date of issuance, must be secured, provided, however, for good cause
shown, or if the building officer determines that the exterior of the structure
is substantially complete, including siding and trim work, so as to not
constitute an eyesore, the expiration date of the original building permit may
be extended six (6) months by the building officer. The fee for a renewal
permit shall be in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      2.   Non-Principal Structures: Prior to commencement of any construction
activity on non-principal structures and for all work identified in the
Village's Residential Registration Program, such as, but not limited to,
freestanding garages or sheds, a building permit for such work is required to
be obtained from the Village, a building permit for such work and/or
residential registration of the proposed project, as the case may be, is
required, the fee for which building permit or residential registration shall
be an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. All such permits shall expire one (1) year from
date of issuance. In the event that the structure has not been completed and a
certificate of occupancy has not been issued by that date within the one (1)
year time frame, where applicable, a renewal building permit, or renewal
residential registration, which shall expire three (3) months after date of
issuance or the date of registration of the work, must be secured, provided,
however, for good cause shown, the expiration date of the original building
permit or residential registration may be extended three (3) additional months
by the Building Officer. The fee for a renewal permit or renewal residential
registration shall be an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      3.   As to nonprincipal structures, for all building permits which have
been previously issued for construction or work prior to the effective date of
this section, which have not been completed and certificates of occupancy for
completion issued, the work which is the subject of said permits, shall be
completed within six (6) months from the effective date of this section.
      4.   The failure to complete a structure for which a permit shall have
been secured or a residential registration filed with the Village within the
time permitted by the original building permit or the original residential
registration as it may have been extended or renewed, or otherwise set forth in
this section, shall constitute a violation of this section and subject the
permittee, upon conviction, to a mandatory daily fine in an amount as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, until the building or other structure is
demolished pursuant to a demolition permit issued by the Village or a
certificate of occupancy or completion is issued for the structure. In the
alternative to demolishing an incomplete structure, the permittee may apply for
a penalty building permit or residential registration to complete the structure
within ninety (90) days, but the fee for a penalty permit or a penalty
residential registration shall be equal to three hundred percent (300%) of the
original permit or residential registration fee as specified from time to time
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Upon the issuance of a penalty permit or the
allowing of a penalty residential registration, the mandatory daily fine shall
not apply for the duration of the penalty building permit.
   F.   Notwithstanding the above requirements of this section for building
permits, in lieu of the building permit otherwise required by this title 8,
certain work as described in section
8-1-7 of this Village Code shall be subject to the requirements of the
Residential Registration Program as described in detail in section
8-1-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-
18-2019; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
8-1-4: DEFINITIVE GUIDELINES:
The building officer shall be and is hereby authorized to promulgate and
publish from time to time a current list and concise summary of guidelines for
certain requirements of this Lake Villa building code. Such guidelines as
promulgated and published from time to time by the building officer are simply
that, guidelines, and are not intended as and shall not be used as a substitute
for reference to and application of the full text of this Lake Villa building
code, which text shall always govern and prevail. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008;
amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-18-2019)
8-1-5: RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The previously published books or pamphlets described and referred to in this
chapter and the regulations and standards contained therein or in the described
portions thereof, modified in some cases as noted herein, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this building code. In the event of a conflict
between this chapter, or any part thereof, and such regulations and standards
adopted by reference, the provisions of this chapter, and the other applicable
provisions of the village code shall govern and prevail. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-
24-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-18-2019)
8-1-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Office Of Building Officer: The office of Building Officer is hereby
created in which is vested the power and duty to administer and enforce all the
provisions of this chapter and such related regulations as are assigned to that
office by the Village’s Board of Trustees. That officer is meant wherever in
this chapter the term "Building Officer" is used.
   B.   Appointment Of Building Officer: The Board of Trustees shall appoint as
Building Officer a person who is qualified by professional or practical
training and experience to conduct the affairs and carry out the duties of that
office, who may be either an employee of the Village or an independent
contractor. It shall also provide for the appointment of such assistants as
employee(s) or as independent contractor(s) as are needed and qualified to
carry out efficiently the duties and powers assigned to them by the Board of
Trustees or Building Officer and the Building Officer shall not be removed from
office except for cause and after full opportunity has been granted him to be
heard on specific and relevant charges by and before the appointing authority.
   C.   Relief From Personal Responsibility: The Building Officer charged with
the enforcement of this code, while acting for and/or on behalf of the Village
shall not be held personally liable for such enforcement and/or any related
determinations relative to a matter, and said Building Officer and any of his
or her subordinates is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of the official duties of the Building Officer on
behalf of the Village. Any suit instituted against any Building Officer acting
for and/or on behalf of the Village because of an act performed by him in the
lawful discharge of the duties of the Building Officer and under the provisions
of the Village of Lake Villa building code and zoning ordinance shall be
defended by counsel selected by the Village until the final termination of the
respective proceedings. In no case shall the Building Officer or any of his
subordinates be liable for costs in any action, suit, or proceedings that may
be instituted in enforcement of the provisions of the Village ordinances and
resolutions, and any officer of the Department of Building and Zoning, acting
in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts
performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in
the performance of his official duties in connection thereto. (Ord. 2008-09-01,
9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-18-2019)
8-1-7: BUILDING PERMITS AND APPLICABLE FEES; RESIDENTIAL REGISTRATION PROGRAM
ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Permit Or Residential Registration Required: It is hereby required that
prior to the commencement of any work identified in this section
8-1-7 proposed to be performed on any residential structure or residential
property within the Village, an application for the required permits or
registrations must be submitted to the Village all such permit(s) and/or
approval(s) must be obtained prior to commencement of any construction activity
and all other requirements of title 8, “Building Regulations,” of this Village
Code, and all other applicable requirements of this Village Code, shall be
complied with whenever a building or structure, or parts or appurtenances
thereof, including but not limited to water supply, sewage disposal, plumbing
installation, electrical installation, and heating and cooling equipment,
located within the limits of the Village and regulated by this title, is
constructed, erected, installed, altered, converted, remodeled, reroofed,
moved, structurally repaired or changed, or demolished.
   B.   Residential Registration Program:
      1.   In lieu of the requirement for the issuance by the Village of a
permit for certain work to be performed on residential structure(s) and/or on
other related non-principal structure(s) or other improvements on residential
property within the Village, there is hereby established by the Village a
"Residential Registration Program" which requires the registration with the
Village for certain work to be performed on residential buildings, structures
and/or on property within the Village for which only registration with the
Village, and a nominal, non-refundable registration fee paid to the Village for
the specified work, shall be required but not Village permit is required to be
obtained for such work.
      2.   Residential Registration Program: Certain work proposed to be
performed on a residential structure or on a residential property within the
Village is eligible for the payment to the Village of reduced permit fees
pursuant to the Residential Registration Program herein established by the
Village, and for such work, an application detailing the extent of the proposed
work on a residential building structure or property within the Village shall
be submitted to the Village prior to the commencement of any such work by means
of the Residential Registration Program described in this section, in lieu of
obtaining a building permit for such work. A schedule of the work eligible for
the Village's Residential Registration Program and the respective non-
refundable fee(s) for such work shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   C.   Residential Property: Building Permit Fee(s), Inspection, Plan Review
And Other Fees For Work Not Covered By The Village's Residential Registration
Program:
      1.   Except for any work which is eligible to be performed on any
residential structure or residential property within the Village pursuant to
the Village's Residential Registration Program as provided for in Section
8-1-7B above, all work identified in Section
1-18-1 performed on any residential or commercial property pursuant to this
Section
8-1-7C shall require the submittal to the Village of an application for a
building permit, the Village's written approval of the plans therefor, the
securing from the Village of a building permit and/or any other required permit
prior to the commencement of the work, and the payment to the Village of the
applicable fees and charges which shall be in those amounts as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      2.   Residential Volume Computation:
         a.   Residential Volume: Residential volume shall be computed based on
the exterior dimensions of the building and shall include all space above the
lowest level of the foundation wall and below the ceiling or bottom cord of
roof truss of the uppermost floor.
         b.   Unit Of Volume Of Cost: Figure a major fraction as a full unit.
   D.   Commercial Property: Building Permit Fees, Plan Review And Inspection
Fees And Other Related Fees And Costs:
      1.   The work identified in Section
1-18-1 performed on any commercial property pursuant to this Section
8-1-7D shall require the submittal to the Village of an application for a
building permit, the Village’s written approval of the plans therefor, the
securing from the Village of a building permit and/or any other required permit
prior to the commencement of the work, and payment to the Village of the
applicable fees and charges which shall be as in those amounts as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      2.   Commercial Volume Computation:
         a.   Commercial Volume: Commercial volume shall be computed based on
the exterior dimensions of the building and shall include all space above the
lowest level of the foundation wall footing and the top of the roof sheathing,
and/or deck where equipment room tower, etc., are constructed.
         b.   Unit Of Volume Of Cost: Figure a major fraction as a full unit.
   E.   Permit Fees, Inspection Fees, And Other Fees Applicable To Both
Residential And Commercial Properties: Fees and costs applicable to both
residential and commercial properties are as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
(Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2019-11-01, 11-18-2019; Ord. 2022-06-
04, 6-20-2022; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
8-1-8: FINES; PENALTIES; COSTS:
   A.   Fines: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, fails,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of Chapter 1, "Building Code", or any provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, those provisions adopted by reference,
shall be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each offense, and each day upon which such
violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Reporting Of Violations: A person, firm, or corporation licensed or
registered by the state, or a subdivision thereof, engaged to perform any work
regulated by this chapter or to render professional architectural or
engineering service in connection therewith, who violates the law or ordinance
under which licensed or registered, or who violates this building code while
carrying out such work or rendering service in connection therewith, shall be
reported by the building officer to the licensing authority.
   C.   Costs: Where a dispute arises regarding an engineering opinion
furnished by the owner of property involved in any matter covered by this
chapter, the village may engage the services of a qualified registered engineer
and the owner of the property involved shall reimburse the village for the cost
of such services. Where a permit is issued, such engineering expense shall be
added to the permit fee. Where no permit is issued, such expense may be
collected by civil action at law against the owner of said property. (Ord.
2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
8-1-9: ROAD BOND:
Prior to the issuance of a building permit for a principal structure, if the
structure is to be located on property which is adjacent to and obtains or has
access to or from a public street which has been accepted by the village or
which the village maintains, then, in that event, the permit applicant shall
deposit with the village cash or an irrevocable letter of credit road bond in
an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The purpose of the road bond is to have funds
available to the village to repair any damages to the public facilities, such
as the roads, sidewalks, or parkways, caused during the course of construction
of the structure. After the issuance of occupancy permit for the structure, the
road bond shall be returned to the permittee less any sums determined by the
village to be necessary to repair damages caused to the public facilities
during the course of construction of said principal structure. (Ord. 2008-09-
01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
8-1-10: DRIVEWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Required: Prior to starting any site work for the installation
of a new driveway or for resurfacing of an existing driveway within the
Village, every person must apply for and obtain a driveway permit from the
applicable Superintendent of Public Works, or his designee. The fee for the
issuance of said a driveway permit is as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, as amended from time to time. No permit is
required for only the sealcoating of an existing driveway.
   B.   Application for Permit:
      1.   All applications for such a driveway permit shall be submitted to
the Village Clerk on forms provided by the Village for said purpose. Said
permit application shall be transmitted by the Village Clerk to the applicable
Superintendent of Public Works, or his designee, for his review and approval.
The applicable Superintendent of Public Works, or his designee, is authorized
to require each application for a driveway permit to meet specifications that
allow a proper installation or resurfacing of the driveway to the site in
accordance with the standards set forth below.
      2.   Submittals Required for a Driveway Permit:
         a.   Completed permit application;
         b.   A proposal signed by the contractor;
         c.   A current plat of survey;
         d.   Two (2) sets of site plans drawn out;
         e.   A copy of the homeowners' association approval letter, if
applicable.
   C.   Posting Permit: When a driveway permit is issued, the applicable
Superintendent of Public Works, or his designee, shall sign or affix a seal to
the respective building permit which must be clearly displayed on the subject
property at all times during the respective driveway installation and/or
resurfacing project to signify that a driveway permit has been issued.
   D.   Work on a Driveway Without Permit: Any work on any driveway which
requires the issuance by the Village of a driveway permit which is started
without such a permit may also result in an authorized agent of the Village
issuing a stop order for any driveway work on the subject property and the
property owner(s) having to pay a stop order fee in addition to the driveway
permit fee before any work may be resumed on the subject property.
   E.   Prior to issuance of a driveway permit by the applicable Superintendent
of Public Works, plans for installation and/or resurfacing of a driveway shall
be reviewed and approved by the applicable Superintendent of Public Works and
shall comply with the following minimum requirements:
      1.   All Driveways:
         a.   A driveway must not project above the connecting point at the
curb;
         b.   Culvert must be a minimum of twelve inches (12") in diameter
unless an existing Village storm sewer exists to which the culvert shall be
connected;
         c.   A driveway must be at least four inches (4") wider than the
garage door, if applicable;
         d.   A driveway must not be within five feet (5') of any side lot
line; and
         e.   No driveway apron shall exceed twenty-five feet (25') in width.
      2.   Asphalt Driveways:
         a.   Base must be 6" crushed limestone or equivalent; and
         b.   Asphalt must be installed at two and a half inches (2½") lift and
rolled to two inches (2") thickness and flared at the curb or sidewalk.
      3.   Concrete Driveways:
         a.   Concrete shall be a minimum of five and a half inches (5½") bag
mix;
         b.   Woven wired mesh shall be required;
         c.   Three percent (3%) through eight percent (8%) air entrainment;
         d.   Expansion material shall be installed between the curb and the
driveway approach as well as between the driveway approach and the sidewalk;
         e.   Minimum six inches (6") crushed limestone base shall be required;
and
         f.   Concrete thickness of six inches (6") shall be required for any
driveway approach and for any sidewalk in the driveway. Concrete thickness of
four inches (4") shall be required for the driveway on any residential lot.
      4.   Paver Brick Driveways:
         a.   The property owner or contractor shall submit to the Village
specifications indicating the amount of base and the amount of bedding;
         b.   Paver brick driveways require a minimum of six (6) to twelve (12)
inches of base and one (1) to one and a half (1 ½) inches of bedding. Sub-base
must be installed and compacted in four inch (4") lifts;
         c.   Edge restraints must be installed;
         d.   The base, bedding, and paver bricks must each be compacted when
installed; and
         e.   The use of paver bricks is not allowed without a letter from the
homeowner accepting responsibility for any paver bricks installed within any
Village right-of-way.
   F.   Required Inspections: The following inspections of new driveway
installations and/or resurfacing of existing driveways (but not including
sealcoating of a driveway) are required. Inspections may be scheduled Monday
through Friday between seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and three o’clock (3:00) P.M.,
with a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours' notice when scheduling such an
inspection.
      1.   A pre-construction inspection by an employee of the Village's
Department of Public Works before the issuance of the driveway permit.
      2.   A base inspection by an employee of the Village's Department of
Public Works shall be required prior to the installation of any asphalt,
concrete, or paver bricks.
      3.   A final inspection of the completed driveway by an employee of the
Village's Department of Public Works shall also be required in order to ensure
compliance with the applicable approved plans.
   G.   Responsibility of Property Owner:
      1.   Installation of any new driveway(s) and/or the resurfacing of
existing driveway(s) must comply with the applicable provisions of the Lake
Villa Village Code.
      2.   The property owner(s) and the respective contractor(s) shall be
jointly and severally responsible for the restoration of the public right-of-
way. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2022-06-04, 6-20-2022; Ord. 2024-
12-03, 12-2-2024)
8-1-11: HOUSE NUMBERING:
   A.   Number Required: All houses fronting on the public thoroughfares within
the village shall be numbered in conformity with the following plan:
      On all thoroughfares running easterly and westerly, the even numbers
shall be on the north side and the odd numbers on the south side.
      On all thoroughfares running northerly and southerly, the even numbers
shall be on the west side and the odd numbers on the east side.
   B.   Baselines: Section line running north and south between section 32-33
shall be the base of dividing line for numbering houses fronting on any
thoroughfares running northerly and southerly, and Grand Avenue shall be the
base or dividing line for numbering houses fronting on any thoroughfare running
easterly and westerly.
   C.   Standard Frontage For Numbers: The standard frontage for each number
shall be thirteen and two-tenths feet (13.2') on all streets running at such an
angle that they would intercept either base if extended, but not extending to
the same. The same order of numbers shall be observed as though such street
extended to the base or dividing line.
   D.   Placing Of Numbers: Each of the figures of every number shall be not
less than three inches (3") in length, being so marked as to be distinguishable
and easily read; said numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous place on the
front side of or above the front door of the building.
   E.   Numbers Required: It shall be the duty of the owner of each building
now constructed or each new building in said village to ascertain from the
office of the village clerk the correct number to be placed upon his building
and to place such number within thirty (30) days after the adoption of this
chapter or within sixty (60) days after the completion of the building in case
of new buildings.
   F.   Village Clerk To Keep Plat: It shall be the duty of the village clerk
to enter upon a plat kept in his office the numbers authorized from time to
time on all buildings, placed upon the lot for which such number shall have
been issued.
   G.   Settlement Of Disputes: In case duplicate number is placed on any
single street or block using the decimal system of not more than one hundred
(100) numbers to each block, and the controversy shall arise with regard
thereto, or any controversies in respect to the number on various residences,
the village clerk is hereby vested with power to direct each of those involved
as to the proper number for their respective buildings. Any person failing to
comply with the directions as to number given by the village clerk shall be
deemed to have violated this chapter. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008)
8-1-12: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
For all residences to be located within a subdivision, no building permit shall
be issued except as herein provided until all the public improvements within
the subdivision are completed and accepted by the village or the village
determines it has adequate security deposited to guarantee the completion of
said improvements unless the applicant shall pay to the village sufficient
funds as determined by the village engineer on a pro rata basis per lot to
generate sufficient funds to pay for and guarantee the completion of all
required public improvements within the subdivision. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-
2008)
8-1-13: REGULATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATION OF BUILDING CODE:
The following requirements apply to the administration and enforcement of this
building code, other pertinent ordinances, and laws applicable to any regulated
building, structure, part, or appurtenance thereof.
   A.   Application For A Permit:
      1.   Prior to the commencement of any construction, the property owner or
authorized agent of the property owner, shall submit to the building officer
for his written approval application(s) for the respective necessary permit(s)
on forms provided by building officer.
      2.   Said application(s) for permit(s) may be amended during the course
of work, but any amendment thereto shall be subject to the written approval of
the building officer prior to commencement of any construction on the portion
of the project so modified.
      3.   Upon completion of any work pursuant to any permit issued by the
building officer, any alterations and/or additions to the subject building(s)
or structure(s) shall require application for and approval by the building
officer of another permit.
   B.   Information To Accompany And Be A Part Of Application: The following
information and/or material(s) shall accompany the application for any permit
pursuant to this chapter:
      1.   Descriptive material, in drawn and written form, as to location and
design of buildings, structures, water supply systems, sewage disposal system,
plumbing and electrical installations, as required by the building officer to
assure compliance with the rules and regulations of this chapter and the other
applicable provisions of the village code.
      2.   Three (3) copies of plat of a building plot, unless shown on the
construction plans, showing existing and proposed buildings, structures, and
underground facilities.
      3.   For construction, alterations, and other work: three (3) copies of
construction plans (more if required by building officer), specifications (if
needed), tests (if needed), to show compliance with regulations. Scale of plans
not less than one- eighth inch to the foot (1/8" = 1').
      4.   Plans may be waived for minor alterations not involving structural
changes and for residential accessory buildings not over seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) cubic feet in area, if sufficiently described in application.
      5.   If any proposed construction includes the use of any truss(es), a
truss diagram prepared and stamped by an architect or structural engineer
licensed by the state of Illinois must be submitted.
      6.   Plans for any and all commercial and/or public buildings prepared
and stamped by an architect or structural engineer licensed by the state of
Illinois must be submitted.
      7.   Where construction is to occur within one hundred feet (100') of a
designated floodplain area, the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of proposed building must be shown on the plans submitted to the
building officer in relation to the high water elevation. No building floor
shall be less than two feet (2') above the applicable high water elevation.
   C.   Fees: Payment of all applicable required fees must accompany any permit
application.
   D.   Examination Of Application And Plans: Examination of any permit
application and accompanying plans shall be made within a reasonable time by or
under direction of building officer.
   E.   Action On Permit After Filing And Examination Of Application: The
following action shall be taken within a reasonable time by the building
officer, or his designee, on the application for a permit:
      1.   Permit shall be denied if plans or proposed work do not conform to
requirements of this building code, or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations. Denial with reasons shall be given in writing upon request.
      2.   If the building officer finds that the proposed work conforms to
requirements of this building code and other applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, a permit shall be issued in writing to proceed with work, and
one set of the approved plans and specifications, endorsed by building officer,
shall be kept on the job site at all times.
      3.   A permit placard may be furnished with a permit and said placard or
the permit itself, shall remain conspicuously posted on the premises during the
course of work.
      4.   Upon completion of the work for which a permit is issued, the
property owner and/or the property owner's agent, shall contact the building
officer to schedule a final inspection of said work.
      5.   A certificate of occupancy shall be secured from the building
officer before a building is occupied. If a final inspection of the subject
property indicates that the work has been completed in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications and that all construction is in compliance
with this building code and said permit, the building officer shall issue the
required certificate of occupancy.
      6.   A temporary occupancy permit may be issued by the building officer
for a building or portion thereof if the building officer, at his sole
discretion, finds that the condition of the building and the lighting, heating,
water supply, sewage disposal, and other sanitary facilities necessary for the
occupancy thereof, provide a reasonable degree of safety. Evidence or assurance
of reasonably prompt completion shall be furnished by the property owner to the
building officer. Said permit may be revoked if the remaining work is not
diligently completed in a timely manner.
   F.   Nonconforming Building Or Structure:
      1.   Definition: An existing building or structure or part thereof not in
conformance with this building code.
      2.   Any repair work on any nonconforming building or structure requires
the submittal to the building officer of a written application for said work,
together with any required submittals, and the approval by the building officer
of a permit for said work. Said work shall be limited to necessary repairs only
unless said building or structure or part thereof is made to conform in whole
or part with the requirements of this chapter and any other applicable
provisions of the village code and of the village of Lake Villa zoning
ordinance.
      3.   Altering or enlarging of any nonconforming building or structure
shall be prohibited unless the proposed alteration or enlargement shall render
said building or structure to be a structure conforming with the provisions of
this chapter, any other applicable provisions of the village code and of the
village of Lake Villa zoning ordinance.
   G.   Duties And Authority Of Building Officer: The building officer shall:
      1.   Be responsible for the administration of this building code and
other applicable provisions of this chapter and of the village of Lake Villa
zoning ordinance.
      2.   Keep accurate records of the business and work of the building
department, including, but not limited to, permit applications, survey plats
and building plot plans, all construction plans and specifications, copies of
permits and certificates issued, affidavits and certificates received, a record
of inspections, copies of notices and orders issued, reports of tests made.
      3.   Keep any plans and specifications of building(s), structure(s) and/
or accessory structure(s) until legal authority for their destruction has been
granted. Survey plats and building plot plans, and those parts of plans for
other buildings which may be useful for future periodic inspections, shall be
kept until legal approval has been granted by the state of Illinois.
      4.   Make inspections of properties within the village and the structure
(s) thereon, and for that purpose is hereby authorized to enter any buildings,
structures, and premises within the village for the purpose of making said
inspection(s).
      5.   Issue written stop work orders for any work being done on a premises
that is contrary to the building permit issued therefor or this chapter. The
building officer, or his designee, shall attempt to post such written stop work
order on the premises involved and such stop work order, when posted on the
premises, shall not be removed except by order of the building officer. Removal
without such order shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      6.   Revoke, by writing, a permit or approval issued for plans submitted
and/or for work performed contrary to this chapter or based upon a false
statement or misrepresentation in the application for same.
   H.   Hazardous Building Or Construction Condition: Upon written order of the
building officer, or his designee, the owner of a property upon which there is
a building or structure, or part or appurtenance thereof, or a construction
site, the condition of which is found to be unsafe or hazardous for any reason
shall take any necessary and lawful action to immediately correct, repair,
replace, vacate, demolish or remove said hazardous building, structure, and/or
condition and restore and/or put in safe condition the premises and/or work
site on the premises within a reasonable period of time, as may be appropriate
in each case, when such a finding has been made by the building officer in
writing. Written notice of such findings and order shall be given to and/or
served upon the property owner or his agent or the respective contractor, and
except in emergencies, a hearing on said order may be held before the building
officer upon a written request from any aggrieved party.
   I.   Required Notice For Inspections: The following listed inspections are
required. At least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any required
inspection, a property owner or his contractor shall contact the building
department and request and schedule the designated inspection.
      1.   Footing And Setback: Inspections shall be made before poles or piers
are set or after excavation for foundation or trenches and after forming for
spread footings, but prior to placing concrete.
      2.   Damp Proofing Foundation: Inspection shall be made prior to
backfilling of foundation.
      3.   Drain Tile: Inspection shall be made after drain tile is in place
adjacent to footing, covered with #8 wash stone plus protective paper installed
over the stone prior to placing any backfill adjacent to the foundation.
      4.   Rough Carpentry; Framing: Inspection shall be made prior to the
application of any interior finish or the installation of any insulation
material and before siding, etc., is applied to exteriors of building.
      5.   Rough Masonry: When walls are approximately one-third (1/3) up in
height the ties and weep holes shall be inspected and approved by the building
officer, or his designee. Where lintels are involved, the size and installation
of such lintels shall be inspected and approved by the building officer, or his
designee.
      6.   Rough Electrical: Inspection shall be made when electrical is
completely roughed in and before insulation or any other materials are applied
to walls or ceilings. (If partial inspection is wanted, it should be stated
so.)
      7.   Rough Electrical In Concrete Slab: Inspection shall be made prior to
the placing of concrete.
      8.   Rough Plumbing: Inspection shall be made when the plumbing is
completely roughed in and before floor insulation or any other material if
applied to walls or ceiling. (If partial inspection is wanted, it should be
stated so.)
      9.   Rough Plumbing In Concrete Slab: Inspections shall be made prior to
the placing of concrete.
      10.   Rough Heating And Air Conditioning: Inspection shall be made when
heating or air conditioning is completely roughed in and before insulation or
any other material is applied to walls or ceilings. (If partial inspection is
wanted, it should be stated so.)
      11.   Other Inspections: In addition to the above stated inspections, the
building department may make or require any other inspections to ascertain
compliance with this building code and other applicable laws, rules and
regulations.
      12.   Final Inspection (Certificate Of Occupancy): Shall be made after
building is completed and ready for occupancy.
A certificate of occupancy, which shall be secured before a building is
permanently occupied, is to be issued by the building officer when an
inspection following the completion of the work shows that all construction is
in compliance with this chapter, and any other applicable laws, rules and
regulations, and the building permit which was issued therefor. A temporary
occupancy permit may be issued for a building or a portion thereof if it is
found that the condition of the building and the lighting, heating, water
supply, sewage disposal, and other sanitary facilities necessary for the
occupancy thereof provide a reasonable degree of safety and comfort. Evidence
or assurance of reasonably prompt completion shall be furnished by the property
owner to the building officer. Said permit may be revoked if the remaining work
is not diligently completed in a timely manner.
Work shall not be done on any part of any building, structure, and/or premises
beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first
obtaining the written approval of the building officer, or his designee. Such
written approval shall be given only after an inspection has been made of each
successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections
required above. This approval shall take the form of the inspector's initials
on the permit card posted on the premises.
   J.   Inspection Of Component Parts Of Prefabricated Structures: No closed
wall construction shall be allowed. In order to permit the use of component
parts in a structure erected on a site in the village which component parts are
manufactured or fabricated at an off site location in such a manner as to
comply fully with requirements of this chapter and the applicable provisions of
the village code, but which arrive at the site of erection having inside wall
covering already installed and, thus, rendering inspection thereof impossible
or difficult, then, in such cases the inspection required by this chapter at
the time after the building is framed, roofed, and rough wiring and plumbing
installed, but before any inside wall is installed, will be waived if the
following conditions are first satisfied and the village board of trustees have
given their written approval of the product:
      1.   Each manufacturer or manufacturer's representative shall arrange, at
his expense, for the inspection by the building officer, or his designee, of
the factory process involved in the fabrication of a typical model intended for
sale and construction in the area under the jurisdiction of the building
officer. It is necessary that this representative be afforded the opportunity
of following the construction of a unit in detail as it passes through the
various stages of manufacture.
      2.   Applicants for permits for construction shall state the name of the
general contractor or other individual who is wholly responsible for the
conduct of construction on the site.
      3.   A "master plan" for each model must be filed with the building
officer incorporating all off site constructed aspects of the structure as well
as its final site assembly down to the foundation.
      4.   The foundation plan shall include all work to be performed in the
basement or crawl space area and not be limited to only those items provided by
the modular home manufacturer. Additionally, this plan is not to be a "typical"
foundation plan, but rather one prepared for the particular site to be occupied
by the home.
      5.   All provisions of this chapter, as well as any other applicable
laws, rules, and regulations shall be applicable to such prefabricated
construction.
      6.   Each residential unit shall be constructed with a minimum of one
frost proof hose bib conveniently located on the exterior of house. A complete
plumbing riser diagram for both supply and drain waste and vent in isometric on
the plans shall be provided to the building officer. This diagram must indicate
sizes and materials.
      7.   A photographic record showing electrical and plumbing details shall
be provided to the building officer.
      8.   The building officer shall be contacted at least twenty four (24)
hours in advance of the arrival of a modular unit at any construction site, and
at that time detailed information regarding setting schedule shall also be
provided to the building officer, or his designee.
      9.   A certificate of approval by an applicable approving agency shall be
furnished with each prefabricated assembly, except where all elements of the
assembly are readily accessible to inspection at the site. Placement of the
prefabricated assemblies at the building site shall be inspected by the
building officer to determine compliance with this chapter in all its aspects,
and a final inspection shall be provided in accordance with subsection J11 of
this section.
      10.   The contractor or other individual obtaining the permit for the
transportation into the village and the erection and/or installation of a
prefabricated unit will be held responsible once the unit arrives in the
village for its total disposition including the arrangement for its immediate
removal from the right of way once the unit arrives at the site. It is
incumbent upon this individual to make adequate arrangements with the
manufacturer and/or carrier to assure that roads and other property are not
damaged while the unit is in transit through the village to the site, and
further make arrangements for the immediate disposition of the unit at the
construction site.
      11.   Every prefabricated residential unit shall have a state of Illinois
certification approval, a copy of which must be presented/provided to the
building officer before any occupancy of said structure. In all cases, the
village board of trustees must approve the residential unit before an occupancy
permit is issued.
   K.   Alternate Materials: The provisions of this chapter are not intended to
prevent the use of any material or method of construction not specifically
prescribed by this chapter, provided any such alternate materials and/or method
has been approved in writing by the building officer, or his designee, prior to
the commencement of any construction. The building officer may approve any such
alternate materials and/or method provided he finds that the proposed design is
satisfactory and complies with the accepted design criteria. The building
officer may require that evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any
claims that may be made regarding its use. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008)
8-1-14: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain abbreviations, terms, phrases, words,
and their derivatives shall be construed as defined in this section. Words used
in the masculine gender include the feminine; and the feminine, the masculine.
ACCEPTED ENGINEERING PRACTICE: That which conforms to accepted principles,
tests, or standards of nationally recognized technical or scientific
authorities.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A building the use of which is incidental to that of the
main building and which is located on the same lot.
ADDITION: An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
AIR CONDITIONING: The treatment of air so as to control simultaneously its
temperature, humidity, cleanness and distribution to meet the requirements of a
conditioned space.
AIR DUCT: A tube or conduit used for conveying air.
APARTMENT: A dwelling unit within a building containing more than one dwelling
unit sometimes having a common entrance to a common hallway.
APPROVED: Approval by the building officer, or his designee, as the result of
investigation, inspection and/or tests conducted by him, or by reason of
accepted principles or tests by nationally recognized organizations.
APPROVED AGENCY: An established and recognized agency regularly engaged in
conducting tests or furnishing inspection services, when the building officer
has approved such agency.
APPROVED MATERIAL, EQUIPMENT, AND METHODS: Material, equipment and methods
evaluated and approved by the building officer.
ATTIC: The space between the ceiling beams of the top habitable story and the
roof rafters.
ATTIC (HABITABLE): A habitable attic is an attic which has a stairway as a
means of access and egress and in which the ceiling area at a height of seven
and one-third feet (71/3') above the attic floor is not more than one-third (1/
3) the area of the floor next below.
AUTOMATIC DETECTING DEVICE: A device which automatically detects heat, smoke,
carbon monoxide or other products of combustion.
BALCONY: An exterior floor projecting from and supported by a structure without
additional independent supports.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building which is partly below and partly above
grade, and having at least one-half (1/2) of its height above grade. (See
definitions of Grade, Story and Cellar.)
BUILDING: Any one- and two-family dwelling or portion thereof, which is used,
or designed or intended to be used for human habitation, for living, sleeping,
cooking, or eating purposes or any combination thereof and shall include
structures accessory thereto.
BUILDING (EXISTING): Existing building is a building erected prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or one for which a legal building permit has been
issued.
BUILDING OFFICER: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this building code, or his duly authorized
representative.
BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT: The mechanical, electrical, plumbing and elevator
equipment, including piping, wiring, fixtures and other accessories, which
provide sanitation, lighting, heating, ventilation, firefighting and
transportation facilities essential for the habitable occupancy of the building
or structure for its designated use and occupancy.
BUILDING SITE: The area occupied by a building or structure, including the
yards and courts required for light and ventilation, and such areas that are
prescribed for setbacks and/or access to the street.
CEILING HEIGHT: Ceiling heights shall be the clear vertical distance from the
finished floor to the finished ceiling.
CELLAR: That portion of a building which is partly or completely below grade
and having at least one-half (1/2) of its height below grade. (See definitions
of Grade, Story and Basement.)
CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY: The certificate issued by the building
officer which permits the use and/or occupancy of a building which has been
completed in accordance with the approved plans and specifications therefor and
which certifies compliance with the provisions of law for the use and occupancy
of the building in its several parts together with any special stipulations or
conditions of the building permit.
CHANGE OF USE: An alteration by change of use in a building heretofore existing
to a new use group which imposes other special provisions of law governing
building construction, equipment or means of egress.
CHIMNEY: A primarily vertical enclosure containing one or more passageways for
conveying gas products of combustion to the outside atmosphere.
   Factory Built Chimneys: A chimney that is composed of listed and labeled
factory built components assembled in accordance with the manufacturer's
installation instructions to form the completed chimney and listed by a
nationally recognized testing or inspection agency, for venting gas appliances,
gas incinerators and solid or liquid fuel burning appliances.
   Masonry Chimney: A field constructed chimney of solid masonry units, bricks,
stones, listed hollow masonry units or reinforced concrete lined with a
suitable chimney flue liner and built in accordance with nationally recognized
standards.
   Metal Chimney (Smokestack): A field constructed chimney made of metal and
built in accordance with nationally recognized standards.
CHIMNEY CONNECTOR: A pipe which connects a fuel burning appliance to a chimney.
COMBUSTIBLE (MATERIAL): Applies chiefly to material which is of a nature that
it catches fire easily and usually burns quickly. Any material not listed or
identified as noncombustible by a nationally recognized testing or inspection
agency or this building code.
CONCRETE: A mixture of cement, aggregates and water, of such proportions and
manipulation as to meet specific requirements.
CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT: A building unit or block larger in size than twelve feet
by four feet by four inches (12' x 4' x 4") made of cement and suitable
aggregates.
CONFLAGRATION HAZARD: The fire risk involved in the spread of fire by exterior
exposure to and from adjoining buildings and structures.
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT: The vehicles, machinery, tools, derricks, hoists,
scaffolds, platforms, runways, ladders and all material handling equipment,
safeguards and protective devices used in construction operations.
CONSTRUCTION OPERATION: The erection, alteration, repair, renovation,
demolition or removal of any building or structure; including, but not limited
to, the excavation, filling, grading and regulation of land in connection
therewith.
CONTROLLED MATERIALS: Materials which are certified by an accredited
authoritative agency as meeting accepted engineering standards for quality and
as provided in the 2006 international building code or current adoption.
COURT: A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade
level on a lot and bounded on three (3) or more sides by walls or a building.
CRAWL SPACE: An uninhabitable area located beneath the bottom of floor joists
and the ground below.
DEAD LOADS: The weight of all materials of construction incorporated into the
building, including, but not limited to, walls, floors, roofs, ceilings,
stairways, built-in partitions, finishes, cladding, and other similarly
incorporated architectural and structural items, and fixed service equipment.
DECK: An exterior floor system supported on at least two (2) opposing sides by
an adjoining structure and/or posts, piers, or other independent supports.
DRAFT: The pressure difference existing between the equipment or any component
part and the atmosphere which causes a continuous flow of air and products of
combustion through the gas passages of the appliance to the atmosphere.
   Forced Draft: The pressure difference created by the action of a fan, blower
or ejector which supplies the primary combustion air above atmospheric
pressure.
   Induced Draft: The pressure difference created by the action of a fan,
blower or ejector which is located between the appliance and the chimney or
vent termination.
   Natural Draft: The pressure difference created by a vent or chimney due to
its height and the temperature difference between the flue gases and the
atmosphere.
DRAFT HOOD: A device built into a gas appliance or made a part of a chimney
connector or vent connector from a gas appliance which is designed to:
   A.   Permit the ready escape of flue gases in the event of zero draft, a
backdraft or stoppage in the vent beyond the draft hood;
   B.   Permit the ready relief of the back pressure from a backdraft so it
does not enter the gas appliance; and
   C.   Neutralize the possible effects of excess draft (stack action) upon the
operation of the appliance.
DRAFT REGULATOR: A device which functions to maintain a desired draft in the
appliance by automatically reducing the draft to the desired value.
DRAFT STOP: A material, device or construction installed to restrict the
movement of air within open spaces of concealed areas of building components
such as crawl spaces, floor/ceiling assemblies, roof/ceiling assemblies and
attics.
DUCT: A tube or conduit used for conveying or encasing purposes as specifically
defined below:
   Air Duct: A tube or conduit used for conveying air. The air passages of
self-contained systems are not to be construed as air ducts.
   Pipe Duct: A tube or conduit used for encasing pipe.
   Wire Duct: A tube or conduit used for encasing either moving or stationary
wire, rope, etc.
DUMBWAITER: A hoisting and lowering mechanism with a car of limited capacity
and size which moves in guides in a substantially vertical direction and is
used exclusively for carrying material.
DWELLING: A building, exclusive of mobile homes, recreational vehicles, hotels,
and motels as herein defined, containing as the principal use one or more
dwelling units.
DWELLING, GROUP: A building, exclusive of mobile homes, recreational vehicles,
hotels, or motels, as herein defined, providing, as a minimum, living,
sleeping, and toilet facilities for more than three (3) persons not comprising
a family.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units each with
completely separate entrances.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms, providing living quarters for not more
than one family.
DWELLING UNIT, ATTACHED: A dwelling unit in a building having a principal use
other than as a residence.
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT: All installations of electrical conductors, fittings,
devices and fixtures within or on public and private buildings.
ELECTRICAL SERVICE EQUIPMENT: The equipment located at a point of entrance of
supply conductors to a building which constitutes the main control of supply
and means of cutoff of electricity, including circuit breaker, switches, fuses
and electrical accessories.
ELEVATOR: Hoisting and lowering mechanism equipment with a car or platform
which moves in guides for the transportation of individuals or freight in a
substantially vertical direction through successive floors or levels of a
building or structure.
   Freight Elevator: A freight elevator primarily used for carrying freight on
which only the operator and the persons necessary for loading and unloading and
employees are permitted to ride.
   Hand Elevator: A freight elevator that is driven by manual power.
   Hydraulic Elevator: A power elevator in which the motion of the car is
obtained through the application of force from liquid under pressure.
   Passenger Elevator: An elevator for the transportation of individuals.
   Power Elevator: An elevator in which the motion of the car is obtained
through the application of force other than by hand or obtained through
gravity.
   Sidewalk Elevator: A freight elevator which operates between a sidewalk or
other area exterior to the building and floor levels inside the building below
such area, which does not have a landing opening into the building at its upper
limit of travel and which is not used to carry automobiles.
ELEVATOR REPAIRS: All work necessary to maintain present elevator equipment in
a safe and serviceable condition and to adjust or replace defective, broken or
worn parts, with parts made of equivalent material, strength and design, and
only where the replacing part performs the same function as the replaced part.
EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE OPENING/WINDOW: An operable window, door or similar
device that provides for a means of escape and access for rescue in the event
of an emergency.
EXISTING BUILDING: A building erected prior to the adoption of this building
code, or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
EXISTING EQUIPMENT: Any equipment covered by this chapter which was installed
prior to the effective date of this code or for which an application for permit
to install was filed with the building officer prior thereto.
EXITWAY: That portion of a means of egress which is separated from all other
spaces of a building or structure by construction or equipment as required in
this code to provide a protected way of travel to the exitway discharge.
EXITWAY ACCESS: That portion of a means of egress which leads to an entrance to
an exitway.
EXITWAY DISCHARGE: That portion of a means of egress between the termination of
an exitway and a public space.
EXITWAY DISCHARGE COURT: An exterior unoccupied space which is open to the sky
for its entire area, located on the same lot with a theater or other assembly
building which it serves exclusively as an unobstructed passageway to the
street or other public space.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
law, or a group of not more than three (3) persons (excluding servants), who
need not be so related, living together in a dwelling unit.
FIRE GRADING: The fire hazard classification of a building or structure in
hours or fractions of an hour established for its use group and occupancy.
FIRE RESISTANCE: That property of materials or their assemblies which prevents
or retards the passage of excessive heat, hot gases or flames under conditions
of use.
FIRE RESISTANT RATING: The time in hours or fractions thereof that materials or
their assemblies will resist fire exposure as determined by fire tests
conducted in compliance with recognized standards.
FIRE SEPARATION, EXTERIOR FIRE EXPOSURE: The distance in feet measured from any
other building on the site, or from an interior lot line, or from the opposite
side of a street or other public space to the building.
FIRE SEPARATION WALL: A fire resistance rated assembly of materials not having
unprotected openings, designed to restrict the spread of fire.
FIREWALL: A fire resistance rated wall, having protected openings, which
restricts the spread of fire and extends continuously from the foundation to or
through the roof.
FLAME RESISTANCE: The property of materials or combinations of component
materials which restricts the spread of flame as determined by the flame
resistance tests specified in this chapter.
FLAME SPREAD: The propagation of flame over a surface.
FLAME SPREAD RATING: The measurement of flame spread on the surface of
materials or their assemblies as determined by tests conducted in compliance
with recognized standards.
FLAMMABLE: Subject to easy ignition and rapid flaming combustion.
FLEXIBLE TUBING: A gas conduit other than that formed by a continuous one piece
metal tube.
FLOOR FILL: The fill between the structural floor arch or slab and the finished
flooring.
FLUE: A passage for conveying flue gases from fuel fired appliances or their
vent connectors, to the outside atmosphere.
FOUNDATION WALL: A wall below the floor nearest grade serving as a support for
a wall, pier, column or other structural part of a building.
FUEL OIL: A liquid mixture or compound derived from petroleum which does not
emit flammable vapor below a temperature of one hundred twenty five degrees
Fahrenheit (125°F) in a tag closed cup tester (ASTM D56).
FURNACE:
   Floor Furnace: A self-contained, connected or vented furnace designed to be
suspended from the floor of the space being heated taking air for combustion
outside the space being heated.
   Forced Warm Air Furnace: A furnace equipped with a blower to provide the
primary means for circulating air.
   Warm Air Furnace: A solid, liquid or gas fired appliance for heating air to
be distributed with or without duct systems to the space to be heated.
GRADE: A reference plane representing the average of finished ground level
adjoining the building at all exterior walls.
HABITABLE ROOM: Any room meeting the requirements of this chapter for sleeping,
living, cooking or dining purposes excluding such enclosed places as closets,
pantries, bath or toilet rooms, hallways, laundries, storage spaces, utility
rooms, and similar spaces.
HABITABLE SPACE, MINIMUM HEIGHT: A clear height from finished floor to finished
ceiling of not less than seven and one-half feet (71/2'), except that in attics
and top half stories the height shall be not less than seven and one-third feet
(71/3') over not less than one-third (1/3) the area of the floor when used for
sleeping, study or similar activity.
HABITABLE SPACE, MINIMUM SIZE: A space with a minimum dimension of seven feet
(7') and a minimum area of eighty (80) square feet, between enclosing walls or
partitions, exclusive of closet and storage spaces.
HANDRAIL: A horizontal or sloping rail intended for grasping by the hand for
guidance or support.
HEATING APPLIANCE: Any device designed or constructed for the generation of
heat from solid, liquid or gaseous fuel or electricity.
   Recessed Heater: A completely self-contained heating unit usually recessed
in a wall and located entirely above the floor of the space it is intended to
heat.
   Unit Heater: A factory assembled device designed to heat and circulate air.
Essential components are a heat transfer element, housing and fan with driving
motor. Normally designed for free delivery of recirculated air.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the top of the
highest roof beams of a flat roof, or to the mean level of the highest gable or
slope of a hip roof. When a building faces on more than one street, the height
shall be measured from the average of the grades at the center of each street
front.
   Court: The vertical distance from the lowest level of the court to mean
height of the top of the enclosing walls.
   Story: The vertical distance from top to top of two (2) successive tiers of
beams or finished floor surfaces; and, for the topmost story from the top of
the floor finish to the top of the ceiling joists, or where there is not a
ceiling, to the top of the roof rafters.
   Wall: The vertical distance from the foundation wall or other immediate
support of such wall to the top of the wall.
HOT WATER: Water at a temperature of not less than one hundred twenty degrees
Fahrenheit (120°F).
HOTEL: A building designed for transient occupancy containing rooms or suites
accessible from a common hall or entrance, providing living, sleeping, and
toilet facilities; a general kitchen and a dining room may be provided.
INDIVIDUAL SEWER (SEPTIC) DISPOSAL SYSTEM: A system for disposal of sewage by
means of a septic tank or mechanical treatment, designed for use apart from a
public sewer to serve a single establishment or building.
INDIVIDUAL WATER (WELL) SUPPLY: A supply other than an approved public water
supply that serves one or more families.
JURISDICTION: The government unit which has adopted this chapter under due
legislative authority.
KITCHEN: An area used, or designed to be used, for the preparation of food.
LISTED AND LISTING: Terms referring to equipment which is shown in a list
published by an approved testing agency qualified and equipped for the conduct
or supervision of experimental testing and maintaining an adequate periodic
inspection of current productions and whose listing shows that the equipment
complies with the provisions set forth in this chapter.
LIVING SPACE: Space within a dwelling unit utilized for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking, bathing, and washing and sanitation purposes.
LOADS, LIVE AND DEAD: Dead loads are the weight of the walls, partitions,
framing, floors, ceilings, roofs and all other permanent stationary
construction entering into and becoming a part of the building. Live loads are
all loads except dead and lateral loads.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure designed, used or so
constructed or modified so as to permit its being used as a dwelling for one or
more persons.
MOTEL: A building designed for transient occupancy containing rooms or suites
with separate entrances, providing living, sleeping, and toilet facilities.
MULTIPLE STATION SMOKE DETECTORS: Two (2) or more smoke detectors, which are
capable of interconnection such that the actuation of one causes all separate
audible alarms to operate.
O.C.: On center.
OCCUPANCY: The purpose for which a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used.
OCCUPIED SPACE: The total area of all buildings or structures on any lot or
parcel of ground projected on a horizontal plane excluding permitted
projections as allowed by this chapter.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable title
to and/or interest in the property.
PERMIT: An official document or certificate issued by the authority having
jurisdiction authorizing performance of a specified activity.
PERSON: Shall mean and include any individual, corporation, partnership,
association, or any other legal entity.
PLATFORM CONSTRUCTION: A method of construction by which the floor framing
bears on load bearing walls that is not continuous through the story levels or
floor framing.
PREFABRICATED: Construction materials or assembled units fabricated prior to
erection or installation in a building or structure.
PREFABRICATED BUILDING: The completely assembled and erected building or
structure, including the service equipment, of which the structural parts
consist of prefabricated individual units or subassemblies using ordinary or
controlled materials; and in which the service equipment may be either
prefabricated or at site construction.
PREFABRICATED SUBASSEMBLY: A built up combination of several structural
elements designed and fabricated as an assembled section of wall, ceiling,
floor or roof to be incorporated into the structure by field erection of two
(2) or more such subassemblies.
PREFABRICATED UNIT: A built up section forming an individual structural element
of the building, such as a beam, girder, plank, strut, column or truss, the
integrated parts of which are prefabricated prior to incorporation into the
structure, including the necessary means for erection and connection at the
site to complete the structural frame.
PREFABRICATED UNIT SERVICE EQUIPMENT: A prefabricated assembly of mechanical
units, fixtures and accessories comprising a complete service unit of
mechanical equipment, including bathroom and kitchen plumbing assemblies, unit
heating and air conditioning systems and loop wiring assemblies of electric
circuits.
PRESERVATIVE TREATMENT (TREATED MATERIAL): Unless otherwise noted, is
impregnation under pressure with a wood preservative. Wood preservative is any
suitable substance that is toxic to fungi, insects, borers, and other living
wood destroying organisms.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER OR ARCHITECT: An individual technically and legally
qualified to practice the profession of engineering or architecture.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer directly controlled by a public authority.
RAMP: A walking surface that has a running slope steeper than one unit vertical
in twenty (20) units horizontal. Maximum slope for a handicap ramp shall be one
unit vertical in twelve (12) units horizontal.
REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL: An individual who is registered or licensed to
practice their respective design profession as defined by the statutory
requirements of the professional registration laws of the state of Illinois.
REPAIR: The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building for
the purpose of its maintenance.
REROOFING: The process of recovering or replacing an existing roof covering.
REQUIRED: Shall be construed to be mandatory by provisions of this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL REGISTRATION PROGRAM: A program established by the Village to allow
certain work to be performed on a residential building or structure or on a
residential property that does not require a building permit, but which, in
lieu of such permit, requires property owner or the contractor to register the
work with the Village in advance of the performance of the work and then to
complete the work in conformance with the registration application submitted
and in accordance with all applicable provisions of title 8 and the other
applicable provisions of this Village Code.
RETURN AIR: Air removed from an approved conditioned space or location and
recirculated or exhausted.
SHALL: The term, when used in this chapter, shall be construed as mandatory.
SMOKE DETECTOR: An approved, listed detector sensing visible or invisible
particles of combustion.
SOLID MASONRY: Masonry consisting of solid masonry units laid contiguously with
the joints between the units filled with mortar, or consisting of plain
concrete.
SOLID MASONRY UNIT: A masonry unit whose net cross sectional area in every
plane parallel to the bearing surface is seventy five percent (75%) or more of
its gross cross sectional area measured in the same plane.
STAIRWAY: One or more flights of stairs, and the necessary landing and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one floor to another. A flight of stairs, for the purpose of this chapter, must
have at least three (3) risers.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor
and upper surface of the floor or roof next above except that topmost story
shall be that habitable portion of a building included between the upper
surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above.
STORY ABOVE GRADE: Any story having its finished floor surface entirely above
grade, except that a basement shall be considered as a story above grade where
the finished surface of the floor above the basement is:
   A.   More than six feet (6') above grade.
   B.   More than six feet (6') above the finished ground level for more than
fifty percent (50%) of the total building perimeter.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed.
TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling containing more than two (2) dwelling units each having a
complete separate entrance at ground level.
TRUSS DESIGN DRAWING: The graphic depiction of an individual truss, which
describes the design and physical characteristics of the truss.
UTILITY ROOM: Room or area enclosed or unenclosed where major housekeeping
appliances, laundry facilities and water heating devices are located.
VENEERED WALL: A wall having a facing of masonry or other weather resisting
noncombustible materials securely attached to the backing but not so bonded as
to exert common action under load.
WALLS: Shall be defined as follows:
   Load Bearing: A wall supporting any vertical load in addition to its own
weight.
   Nonload Bearing: A wall, which does not support vertical loads other than
its own weight.
WINDOW: A glazed opening, including portions of glazed door.
YARD: An open, unoccupied space, other than a court, unobstructed from the
ground to the sky, except where specifically provided by this chapter, on the
lot on which a building is situated. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord.
2019-11-01, 11-18-2019)
8-1-15: APPEALS:
An appeal may be made to the village of Lake Villa zoning board of appeals
hereinafter called "zoning board", by any person aggrieved from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the building officer related to
any of the provisions of this title. Within fifteen (15) days of the date of
the action which is being appealed, an aggrieved party must file with the
building officer and with the zoning board a notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof. The zoning board shall thereupon set a reasonable date, time,
and place certain for a hearing of said appeal, and shall cause written notice
thereof to be mailed to the appealing party, or his attorney, and to the
building officer.
The zoning board may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination of the building officer, and to
that end shall have all the powers of the building officer.
The concurring vote of five (5) members of the zoning board shall be necessary
to reverse, in whole or in part, or to modify, any orders, requirements,
decisions or determinations of the building officer.
The zoning board shall keep minutes of its proceedings hereunder, showing the
vote of each member upon every question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions.
All decisions of the zoning board hereunder shall be reduced to writing and
filed in the office of the village clerk, and a copy thereof mailed to the
appealing party and to the building officer. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008)
8-1-16: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. A separate offense
shall be deemed to occur for each day a violation occurs or continues.
"Person", for the purposes of this chapter, shall mean and include any
individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other legal entity.
(Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008)
CHAPTER 2
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 3
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 3A
RENTAL UNITS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Purpose
8-3A-2: Definition
8-3A-3: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
8-3A-4: Inspection
8-3A-5: Application
8-3A-6: Existing Tenancies
8-3A-1: PURPOSE:
To ensure that dwelling units are habitable and safe for tenants, an inspection
for compliance with applicable building code provisions to ensure there are no
life safety violations is necessary and desirable. (Ord. 99-7-1, 7-14-1999)
8-3A-2: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, "life safety violations" shall be any
condition of the building which is a violation of the applicable building code
and the existence of the violation constitutes a risk of harm to an occupant,
as reasonably determined by the inspector. (Ord. 99-7-1, 7-14-1999)
8-3A-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
For each dwelling unit which is to be occupied by a tenant pursuant to a
written or oral lease, prior to the dwelling unit being occupied by said
tenant, the owner shall request and obtain an inspection from the Lake Villa
building department and thereafter obtain a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 99-
7-1, 7-14-1999)
8-3A-4: INSPECTION:
The Lake Villa building department, upon request, shall make the necessary
inspection. If there are no life safety violations of the building code, a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued. If there are life safety violations,
a written list of such violations shall be provided to the owner. The owner can
then request a reinspection after having such violations corrected. There shall
be charged a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each inspection. There shall be
no charge for the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 99-7-1, 7-14-
1999)
8-3A-5: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall apply to all dwelling units which are leased to a tenant and
which are contained in buildings which consist of three (3) or less dwelling
units. A certificate of occupancy shall be required prior to the tenant taking
possession. A separate certificate of occupancy shall be required prior to each
successive tenancy. (Ord. 99-7-1, 7-14-1999)
8-3A-6: EXISTING TENANCIES:
This chapter shall not apply to tenancies in dwelling units which exist as of
July 14, 1999, but shall thereafter apply to each successive tenancy in said
dwelling units. (Ord. 99-7-1, 7-14-1999)
CHAPTER 3B
COMMERCIAL BUILDING CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Purpose
8-3B-2: Definition
8-3B-3: Certificate Of Occupancy Required
8-3B-4: Inspection
8-3B-5: Application
8-3B-6: Existing Tenancies
8-3B-1: PURPOSE:
To ensure that commercial buildings are habitable and safe, an inspection for
compliance with applicable building code provisions to ensure there are no life
safety violations is necessary and desirable. (Ord. 2001-2-1, 2-14-2001)
8-3B-2: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, "life safety violations" shall be any
condition of the building which is a violation of the applicable building code
and the existence of the violation constitutes a risk of harm to an occupant,
as reasonably determined by the inspector. (Ord. 2001-2-1, 2-14-2001)
8-3B-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED:
For each commercial building prior to the building being occupied and prior to
each subsequent change of occupancy, the owner shall request and obtain an
inspection from the Lake Villa building department and thereafter obtain a
certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 2001-2-1, 2-14-2001)
8-3B-4: INSPECTION:
The Lake Villa building department, upon request, shall make the necessary
inspection. There shall be charged an inspection fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00). If there are no life safety violations of the building code, a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued. If there are life safety violations,
a written list of such violations shall be provided to the owner. The owner can
then request a reinspection after having such violations corrected. If more
than two (2) inspections are necessary, there shall be an additional fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each additional inspection. There shall be no
charge for the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 2001-2-1, 2-14-
2001)
8-3B-5: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall apply to all commercial buildings. For the purposes of this
chapter "commercial" shall mean each building which is to be occupied and
utilized for nonresidential purposes. A certificate of occupancy shall be
required prior to occupancy and each subsequent different occupancy. A separate
certificate of occupancy shall be required prior to each successive occupancy.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, 2-14-2001)
8-3B-6: EXISTING TENANCIES:
This chapter shall apply to all occupancies which begin after March 15, 2001.
(Ord. 2001-2-1, 2-14-2001)
CHAPTER 4
OTHER BUILDING CODES ADOPTED
SECTION:
8-4-1: Building Codes Adopted
8-4-2: Reserved
8-4-3: Reserved
8-4-4: Reserved
8-4-5: Reserved
8-4-6: International Property Maintenance Code; Adoption
8-4-7: Elevator And Escalator Standards
8-4-1: BUILDING CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   The Village hereby adopts by reference as its Building Codes, the
following codes:
      1.   The ICC International Building Code, 2018 Edition (IBC), as amended
in subsection C of this Section.
      2.   The ICC International Residential Code, 2018 Edition (IRC), as
amended in subsection D of this Section.
      3.   The ICC Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition (IEBC), as amended in
subsection E of this Section.
      4.   The ICC International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition (IMC), as
amended in subsection F of this Section.
      5.   The ICC International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition (IFGC) as amended
in subsection G of this Section.
      6.   The ICC International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition
(ISPSC), as amended in subsection H of this Section.
      7.   The ICC International Fire Code, 2018 Edition (IFC), as amended in
subsection I of this Section.
      8.   The NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition (NEC), as amended
in subsection J of this Section.
      9.   The State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition (Illinois
Administrative Code, Title 77, "Public Health", Part 890, "Illinois Plumbing
Code", 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890).
      10.   The State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2021 Edition.
      11.   The 2018 State of Illinois Accessibility Code (410 ILCS 25/4).
      12.   The Lake County Code of Ordinances, Title XVII, "Health".
      13.   The ICC International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition (PMC)
(See Section 8-4-6, "International Property Maintenance Code; Adoption", of
this Village Code for amendments thereto.)
      14.   Elevator and Escalator Standards as set forth in Section 8-4-7 of
this Village Code (The Elevator Safety and Regulation Act, 225 ILCS 312/1, et
seq., and the Elevator Safety Administrative Rules, Illinois Administrative
Code, Title 41, "Fire Protection", Part 1000, Illinois Elevator Safety Rules
(41 Ill. Adm. Code 1000)).
   B.   General amendments to Building and other Construction-Related Codes
adopted in Subsection A of this Section: All codes hereby adopted in subsection
A of this Section shall be amended as follows:
      1.   Insert the words "Village of Lake Villa" to replace "[NAME OF
JURISDICTION]".
      2.   Any and all references to the ICC Electrical Code are hereby deleted
and replaced with NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition.
      3.   ICC International Energy Conservation Code: Any and all references
to the ICC International Energy Conservation Code are hereby deleted and
replaced with the State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2021 Edition.
      4.   ICC International Plumbing Code: Any and all references to the ICC
International Plumbing Code are hereby deleted and replaced with the State of
Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition.
      5.   ICC Property Maintenance Code: Any and all references to the ICC
International Property Maintenance Code are hereby deleted and replaced with
references to the ICC International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition.
      6.   ICC International Private Sewage Disposal Code: Any and all
references to the ICC International Private Sewage Disposal Code are hereby
deleted and replaced with the "Lake County Code of Ordinances, Title XVII,
"Health".
      7.   ICC International Building Code: Any and all references in the ICC
International Building Code, 2018 Edition, that has the words "fire code
official" shall be changed to read "Building Official".
      8.   Any and all references to the "Code Official'' shall be changed to
read "Building Official''.
      9.   The penalty for violation of any of the provisions of the ICC
International Building Code, 2018 Edition (as amended); the ICC International
Residential Code, 2018 Edition (as amended); the ICC International Mechanical
Code, 2018 Edition (as amended); the ICC International Fuel Gas Code, 2018
Edition (as amended); the ICC International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018
Edition (as amended); the ICC International Fire Code, 2018 Edition (as
amended); the NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition (as amended); the
ICC Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition; the ICC International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition (as amended); the State of Illinois Plumbing
Code (2014 Edition); the Lake County Code of Ordinances, Title XVII, "Health";
and the State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2021 Edition; shall be a
mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges,
Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title 1,
"Administrative Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village Code. Each day a
violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing
herein, however, shall preclude enforcement proceedings by the Village by means
other than payment of a fine, including injunction proceedings.
   C.   ICC International Building Code, 2018 Edition: The International
Building Code, 2018 Edition (IBC), hereby adopted by the Village shall be
amended as follows:
IBC                  The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted, and
Page 1 Section 101.1 the words "Village of Lake Villa" shall be inserted in
                     lieu thereof.
IBC   Section     The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted, and the words "Village of Lake
Page  101.1       Villa" shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
1
                  This Section shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 101.2, "Exception",
                  shall be inserted, which shall read as follows:
IBC   Section     ''Section 101.2: Exception: Detached one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses
Page  101.2,      consisting of not more than two dwelling units that are not more than three stories
1     Exception   above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress, and their accessory
                  structures not more than three stories above grade plane in height shall comply
                  with this Code or the International Residential Code, 2018 Edition."
IBC               The words "Department of Building Safety" shall be deleted and the words "Office of
Page  Section 103 Building Official'' shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
2
IBC   Section     The words "Department of Building Safety" shall be deleted and the words "Office of
Page  103.1       Building Official'' shall be inserted in lieu thereof, and the official in charge
2                 thereof shall be known as the "Building Official".
                  Section 105.2 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 105.2, "Work
                  Exempt from Permit", shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as
                  follows:
IBC               "105.2 Work Exempt from Permit: Exemptions from permit requirements of this Code
Pages Section     shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
4 and 105.2       violation of the provisions of this Code or any other laws or ordinances of the
5                 Village of Lake Villa. Permits shall not be required for the following:
                     1.   Building: Playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not
                  exceed 120 square feet.
                     2.   Subsections 2-13 are hereby deleted
                  Section 105.5 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 105.5 shall be
                  inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
                  "105.5 Permit Time Limits: All permits shall become void if:
                     1.   A substantial start of construction is not made within six (6) months from
                  the date of issuance.
                     2.   Substantial work is not performed during any six-month period.
                     3.   Permits for new structures, additions and alterations greater than 1,000
                  square feet are not completed, and a Certificate of Occupancy has not been issued
                  within two (2) years of the date of issuance.
                     4.   Permits for additions and alterations 1,000 square feet or less in area are
                  not completed, and a Certificate of Occupancy has not been issued within one (1)
                  year of the date of issuance.
IBC                  5.   Permits for commercial swimming pools are not completed and a Certificate
Page  Section     of Occupancy is not issued within a six (6) month period from the date of issuance.
5     105.5          6.   Permits for demolition are not completed within ninety (90) days after the
                  date of issuance.
                     7.   Permits for fences, re-siding, re-roofing, decks, electrical upgrade(s),
                  sheds, detached garages, screened porches and any minor alteration to an existing
                  building that does not exceed 1,000 square feet are not completed and, if
                  applicable, a Certificate of Occupancy issued within six (6) months from the date
                  of issuance.
                     8.   Permits for telecommunication facilities and related work, including co-
                  locates and antenna replacement, are not completed and, if applicable, a
                  Certificate of Occupancy issued within six (6) months from the date of issuance.
                  The Building Official is authorized, but not obligated, to grant, in writing, one
                  or more extensions of time for periods up to but not more than 180 days each. The
                  extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause shall be demonstrated
                  by the applicant."
IBC   Section     The words "two or more" shall be deleted and the word "three" shall be inserted in
Page  107.1:      lieu thereof.
6
                  Section 107.2 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 107.2 shall be
                  inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
                  "Section 107.2. Information on Construction Documents: Construction documents shall
                  be dimensioned and drawn on suitable material. Minimum scale shall be 1/8 inch per
IBC   Section     foot. Maximum scale shall be one-half inch (1/2) per foot. Electronic media
Page  107.2       documents are permitted to be submitted where approved by the Building Official.
6                 Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location,
                  nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that it will conform to
                  the provisions of this Code and all relevant laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and
                  regulations, as determined by the Building Official.
                  Exception: Sections or sketches may be drawn to a larger scale for clarity."
IBC   Section     In the first sentence, the words "a site plan" shall be deleted and the words "a
Page  107.2.6     minimum of three (3) duplicate originals of the site plans" shall be inserted in
6                 lieu thereof.
IBC   Section     The words "as Reviewed for Code Compliance" shall be deleted with no substitution
Page  107.3.1     therefor.
6
IBC   Section     Section 113 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 113 shall be
Page  113, Board  inserted, which shall read as follows:
10    of Appeal   "Section 113, Appeals: The provisions of Section 8-1-15, "Appeals", of the Village
                  of Lake Villa Village Code shall govern and control the means of appeal."
IBC               The following section shall be added to Section 114:
Page  Section 114 "114.1.1, Enforcement: The provisions of Section 8-1-6 of the Lake Villa Village
10                Code shall govern and control the means of enforcement."
                  The words "penalties as prescribed by law" shall be deleted and the following shall
IBC               be inserted in lieu thereof: "shall be subject to mandatory fines and/or penalties
Page  Section     as specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and
10    114.4       Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations", of
                  the Lake Villa Village Code. Each day a violation exists or continues shall
                  constitute a separate offense."
                  Chapter 2, "Definitions", shall be amended to add the following definitions in
                  alphabetical order:
                  ELECTRIC VEHICLE. An automotive-type vehicle for on-road use primarily powered by
                  an electric motor that draws current from an onboard battery charged through a
                  building electrical service, electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), or another
                  source of electric current.
                  ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT (EVSE). The apparatus installed specifically for
                  the purpose of transferring energy between the premises wiring and the Electric
IBC               Vehicle.
Pages Chapter 2,  EV-CAPABLE SPACE. A dedicated parking space with electrical panel capacity and
21    Definitions space for a branch circuit that supports the EV parking space that is not less than
and               40-ampere and 208/240-volt and equipped with raceways, both underground and surface
22                mounted, to enable the future installation of electric vehicle supply equipment.
                  For two adjacent EV-Capable spaces, a single branch circuit is permitted.
                  EV-INSTALLED SPACE. Parking spaces that have EV supply equipment that is fully
                  installed from the electrical panel to the parking space.
                  EV-READY SPACE. A designated parking space which is provided with a dedicated
                  branch circuit that is not less than 40-ampere and 208/240-volt assigned for
                  electric vehicle supply equipment terminating in a receptacle or junction box
                  located in close proximity to the proposed location of the EV parking space. For
                  two adjacent EV-Ready spaces, a single branch circuit is permitted.
                  Section 310.4.1 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a new Section 310.4.1 shall
                  be inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
IBC   Section     "310.4.1 Care Facilities Within a Dwelling. Care facilities for eight (8) or fewer
Page  310.4.1     persons receiving care that are within a single-family dwelling are permitted to
53                comply with the International Residential Code provided an automatic sprinkler
                  system is installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.3 or Section P2904 of the
                  International Residential Code."
IBC   Section     The following sentence shall be added to the end of Section 403.1:
Page  403.1       "The height of the building for fire department access shall be measured from the
59                average grade elevation to the highest finished floor level."
                  The existing exception shall be identified as number "1", and the following
                  additional exception shall be added:
                  "2. A temporary use permit (not to exceed 30 days) may be issued for a haunted
                  house in an existing structure provided the following criteria is approved:
                     A.   A special inspection has been conducted and the report is in the office.
                     B.   A plot plan showing sufficient parking for the anticipated customers and
                  all structures on the property.
                     C.   A floor plan showing the existing and proposed layout of partitions,
                  windows and means of egress.
IBC   Section        D.   A list of all interior finishes and materials to be used for decorations
Page  411.1       and their flame spread and smoke development ratings.
76                   E.   Plans showing permanent, temporary and emergency lighting.
                     F.   Methods of assuring continuous movement of occupants through the amusement
                  such as but not limited to:
                        (1)   Permanently stationed supervisory personnel.
                        (2)   Directional arrows.
                        (3)   Other means.
                     G.   Method of assuring fire protection such as but not limited to:
                        (1)   An automatic sprinkler system; and
                        (2)   Fire detection/alarm system; and
                        (3)   Portable fire extinguishers.
IBC   Section     The words "applicable provisions of Chapter 10" shall be deleted, and the following
Page  505.2.2     shall be inserted in lieu thereof: "2018 State of Illinois Accessibility Code (410
105               ILCS 25/4)".
                  Subsections 903.1 through 903.2.11 shall be deleted in their entirety, and new
                  Subsections 903.1 through 903.2.11 shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which new
                  Subsections shall read as follows:
                  903.1   General: Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this section.
                  903.1.1   Alternative Protection: Alternative automatic fire-extinguishing systems
                  complying with Section 904 shall be permitted instead of automatic sprinkler
                  protection where recognized by the applicable standard and approved by the Fire
                  Code Official
                  903.2   Where Required: Approved automatic sprinkler systems in new buildings and
                  structures shall be provided in the locations described in Sections 903.2.1 through
                  903.2.12.
                     Exception: Spaces or areas in telecommunications buildings used exclusively for
                  telecommunications equipment, associated electrical power distribution equipment,
                  batteries and standby engines, provided that those spaces or areas are equipped
                  throughout with an automatic smoke detection system in accordance with Section
                  907.2 and are separated from the remainder of the building by not less than 1-hour
                  fire barriers constructed in accordance with Section 707 or not less than 2-hour
                  horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711, or both.
                  903.2.1   Group A: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
                  buildings and portions thereof used as Group A occupancies as provided in this
                  section.
                  903.2.1.1   Group A-1: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
                  stories containing Group A-1 occupancies and throughout all stories from the Group
                  A-1 occupancy to and including the levels of exit discharge serving that occupancy
                  where one of the following conditions exists:
                     1.   The fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                     2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
                     3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a Level of exit discharge
                  serving such occupancies.
                     4.   The fire area contains a multi-theater complex.
                  903.2.1.2   Group A-2: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
                  stories containing Group A-2 occupancies and throughout all stories from the Group
                  A-2 occupancy to and including the levels of exit discharge serving that occupancy
                  where one of the following conditions exists:
                     1.   The fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
                     2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 100 or more.
                     3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
                  serving such occupancies.
                  903.2.1.3   Group A-3: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
                  stories containing Group A-3 occupancies and throughout all stories from the Group
                  A-3 occupancy to and including the levels of exit discharge serving that occupancy
                  where one of the following conditions exists:
                     1.   The fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                     2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
                     3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
                  serving such occupancies.
                  903.2.1.4   Group A-4: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
                  stories containing Group A-4 occupancies and throughout all stories from the Group
                  A-4 occupancy to and including the levels of exit discharge serving that occupancy
                  where one of the following conditions exists:
                     1.   The fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                     2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
                     3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
                  serving such occupancies.
                  903.2.1.5   Group A-5: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for all
                  enclosed Group A-5 accessory use areas in excess of 1,000 square feet.
                  903.2.1.5.1   Spaces Under Grandstands or Bleachers. Enclosed spaces under
                  grandstands or bleachers shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in
                  accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 where either of the following exist:
                     1.   The enclosed area is 1,000 square feet or less and is not constructed in
                  accordance with Section 1029.1.1.1.
                     2.   The enclosed area exceeds 1,000 square feet.
                  903.2.1.6   Assembly Occupancies on Roofs: Where an occupied roof has an assembly
                  occupancy with an occupant load exceeding 100 for Group A-2 and 300 for other Group
                  A occupancies, all floors between the occupied roof and the level of exit discharge
                  shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section
IBC               903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
Pages                Exception: Open parking garages of Type I or Type II construction.
218-  Section 903 903.2.1.7 Multiple Fire Areas. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
223               where multiple fire areas of Group A-1, A-2, A-3 or A-4 occupancies share exit or
                  exit access components and the combined occupant load of these fire areas is 300 or
                  more.
                  903.2.2   Ambulatory Care Facilities. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
                  installed throughout the entire floor containing an ambulatory care facility where
                  either of the following conditions exist at any time:
                     1.   Four or more care recipients are incapable of self-preservation.
                     2.   One or more care recipients that are incapable of self-preservation are
                  located at other than the level of exit discharge serving such a facility.
                  In buildings where ambulatory care is provided on levels other than the level of
                  exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system shall be installed throughout the
                  entire floor as well as all floors below where such care is provided, and all
                  floors between the level of ambulatory care and the nearest level of exit
                  discharge, the level of exit discharge, and all floors below the level of exit
                  discharge.
                     Exception: Floors classified as an open parking garage are not required to be
                  sprinklered.
                  903.2.2.1   Group B. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
                  buildings containing Group B occupancies and throughout all stories from the Group
                  B occupancy to and including the levels of exit discharge serving that occupancy
                  where one of the following conditions exists.
                     1.   The fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                     2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
                     3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit discharge
                  serving such occupancies.
                  903.2.2.2   Group B. Group B occupancy is a classification for buildings or spaces
                  that are used for business purposes, including but not limited to banks; insurance
                  agencies; government buildings, such as police and fire stations; doctor's offices;
                  training and skill development centers, such as tutoring centers; martial arts
                  studios and gymnastics; and educational occupancies for students above the 12th
                  grade. A space with an occupant load of less than 50 people is considered a Group B
                  occupancy. Manual fire alarm boxes are not required if the building has an
                  automatic sprinkler system. Ambulatory care facilities must have an electronically
                  supervised automatic smoke detection system. Group B occupancies may have accessory
                  use spaces used for the storage of records and accounts.
                  903.2.3   Group E. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided for Group E
                  occupancies as follows:
                     1.   Throughout all Group E fire areas greater than 10,000 square feet in area.
                     2.   The Group E fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
                  discharge serving such occupancies. Required in any area below the lowest level of
                  exit discharge serving that area.
                     3.   The Group E fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
                  903.2.4   Group F. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
                  buildings containing a Group F occupancy where one of the following conditions
                  exists:
                     1.   A Group F fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                     2.   A Group F fire area is located more than three stories above grade plane.
                     3.   The combined area of all Group F fire areas on all floors, including any
                  mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet.
                     4.   A Group F occupancy used for the manufacture of upholstered furniture or
                  mattresses exceeds 2,500 square feet.
                  903.2.4.1   Woodworking Operations. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
                  throughout all Group F occupancy fire areas that contain woodworking operations in
                  excess of 2,500 square feet in area that generate finely divided combustible waste
                  or use finely divided combustible materials.
                  903.2.5   Group H. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be provided in high-hazard
                  occupancies as required in Sections 903.2.5.1 through 903.2.5.3.
                  903.2.5.1   General. An automatic sprinkler system shall be installed in Group H
                  occupancies.
                  903.2.5.2   Group H-5 Occupancies. An automatic Sprinkler system shall be installed
                  throughout buildings containing Group H-5 occupancies. The design of the sprinkler
                  system shall be not less than that required by this Code for the occupancy hazard
                  classifications in accordance with Table 903.2.5.2. Where the design area of the
                  sprinkler system consists of a corridor protected by one row of sprinklers, the
                  maximum number of sprinklers required to be calculated is 13.
                  Table 903.2.5.2 shall be amended to read as follows:
                     TABLE 903.2.5.2
                     GROUP H-5 SPRINKLER DESIGN CRITERIA
 
LOCATION                         OCCUPANCY HAZARD CLASSIFICATION
Fabrication Areas                Ordinary Hazard Group 2
Service Corridors                Ordinary Hazard Group 2
Storage rooms without dispensing Ordinary Hazard Group 2
Storage rooms with dispensing    Extra Hazard Group 2
Corridors                        Ordinary Hazard Group 2
   903.2.5.3 Pyroxylin Plastics. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in
   buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or pyroxylin plastics
   are manufactured, stored or handled in quantities exceeding 100 pounds (45 kg).
   903.2.6   Group I. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
   buildings with a Group I fire area.
      Exceptions:
      1.   An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section
   903.3.1.2 shall be permitted in Group 1-1, Condition 1 facilities.
      2.   In buildings where Group 1-4 daycare is provided on levels other than the
   level of exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section
   903.3.1.1 shall be installed on the entire floor where care is provided, all floors
   between the level of care and the level of exit discharge, and all floors below the
   level of exit discharge other than areas classified as an open parking garage.
   903.2.7   Group M. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
   buildings containing a Group M occupancy where one of the following conditions
   exists:
      1.   A Group M fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
      2.   A Group M fire area is located more than three stories above grade plane.
      3.   The combined area of all Group M fire areas on all floors, including any
   mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet.
      4.   A Group M occupancy used for the display and sale of upholstered furniture
   or mattresses exceeds 5,000 square feet.
   903.2.7.1   High-Piled Storage. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in
   accordance with the International Fire Code in all buildings of Group M where
   storage of merchandise is in high-piled or rack storage arrays.
   903.2.8   Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
   Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group R fire area.
   903.2.8.1   Group R-3. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
   Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in Group R-3 occupancies.
   903.2.8.2   Group R-4, Condition 1. An automatic sprinkler system installed in
   accordance with Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in Group R-4, Condition 1
   occupancies.
   903.2.8.3   Group R-4, Condition 2. An automatic sprinkler system installed in
   accordance with Section 903.3.1.2 shall be permitted in Group R-4, Condition 2
   occupancies.
   903.2.8.4   Care Facilities. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
   with Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in care facilities with five or fewer
   individuals in a single-family dwelling.
   903.2.9   Group S. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
   buildings containing a Group S occupancy where one of the following conditions
  exists:
      1.   A Group S fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
      2.   A Group S fire area is located more than three stories above grade plane.
      3.   The combined area of all Group S fire areas on all floors, including any
   mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet.
      4.   A Group S fire area used for the storage of commercial motor vehicles where
   the fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
      5.   A Group S occupancy used for the storage of upholstered furniture or
   mattresses exceeds 2,500 square feet.
      Exception: One story Group S buildings not greater than 10,000 square feet in
   area that are used for cold storage only and do not include any conditioned spaces.
   This exception does not include buildings or occupancies set forth in Sections
   903.2.9.1 through 903.10.1.
   903.2.9.1   Repair Garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
   throughout all buildings used as repair garages in accordance with Section 406, as
   shown:
      1.   Buildings having two or more stories above grade plane, including
   basements, with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 10,000 square
   feet.
      2.   Buildings not more than one story above grade plane, with a fire area
   containing a repair garage exceeding 10,000 square feet.
      3.   Buildings with repair garages servicing vehicles parked in basements.
      4.   A Group S fire area used for the repair of commercial motor vehicles where
   the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
   903.2.9.2   Bulk Storage of Tires. Buildings and structures where the area for the
   storage of tires exceeds 20,000 cubic feet (566 m3) shall be equipped throughout
   with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
   903.2.10   Group S-2 Enclosed Parking Garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall
   be provided throughout buildings classified as enclosed parking garages in
   accordance with Section 406.6 where either of the following conditions exist:
      1.   Where the fire area of the enclosed parking garage exceeds 10,000 square
   feet (1115 m2).
      2.   Where the enclosed parking garage is located beneath other groups.
   903.2.10.1   Commercial Parking Garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
   provided throughout buildings used for storage of commercial motor vehicles where
   the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
   903.2.10.2   Group U. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
   buildings containing Group U occupancies where the Group U fire area exceeds 5,000
   square feet.
   903.2.11   Specific Building Areas and Hazards. In all occupancies, an automatic
   sprinkler system shall be installed for building design or hazards in the locations
   set forth in Sections 903.2.11.1 through 903.2.11.6.
               903.2.5.3 Pyroxylin Plastics. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in
               buildings, or portions thereof, where cellulose nitrate film or pyroxylin plastics
               are manufactured, stored or handled in quantities exceeding 100 pounds (45 kg).
               903.2.6   Group I. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
               buildings with a Group I fire area.
                  Exceptions:
                  1.   An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section
               903.3.1.2 shall be permitted in Group 1-1, Condition 1 facilities.
                  2.   In buildings where Group 1-4 daycare is provided on levels other than the
               level of exit discharge, an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section
               903.3.1.1 shall be installed on the entire floor where care is provided, all floors
               between the level of care and the level of exit discharge, and all floors below the
               level of exit discharge other than areas classified as an open parking garage.
               903.2.7   Group M. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
               buildings containing a Group M occupancy where one of the following conditions
               exists:
                  1.   A Group M fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                  2.   A Group M fire area is located more than three stories above grade plane.
                  3.   The combined area of all Group M fire areas on all floors, including any
               mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet.
                  4.   A Group M occupancy used for the display and sale of upholstered furniture
               or mattresses exceeds 5,000 square feet.
               903.2.7.1   High-Piled Storage. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided in
               accordance with the International Fire Code in all buildings of Group M where
               storage of merchandise is in high-piled or rack storage arrays.
               903.2.8   Group R. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
               Section 903.3 shall be provided throughout all buildings with a Group R fire area.
               903.2.8.1   Group R-3. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
               Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in Group R-3 occupancies.
               903.2.8.2   Group R-4, Condition 1. An automatic sprinkler system installed in
               accordance with Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in Group R-4, Condition 1
               occupancies.
               903.2.8.3   Group R-4, Condition 2. An automatic sprinkler system installed in
               accordance with Section 903.3.1.2 shall be permitted in Group R-4, Condition 2
               occupancies.
               903.2.8.4   Care Facilities. An automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance
               with Section 903.3.1.3 shall be permitted in care facilities with five or fewer
               individuals in a single-family dwelling.
               903.2.9   Group S. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
               buildings containing a Group S occupancy where one of the following conditions
              exists:
                  1.   A Group S fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                  2.   A Group S fire area is located more than three stories above grade plane.
                  3.   The combined area of all Group S fire areas on all floors, including any
               mezzanines, exceeds 24,000 square feet.
                  4.   A Group S fire area used for the storage of commercial motor vehicles where
               the fire area exceeds 10,000 square feet.
                  5.   A Group S occupancy used for the storage of upholstered furniture or
               mattresses exceeds 2,500 square feet.
                  Exception: One story Group S buildings not greater than 10,000 square feet in
               area that are used for cold storage only and do not include any conditioned spaces.
               This exception does not include buildings or occupancies set forth in Sections
               903.2.9.1 through 903.10.1.
               903.2.9.1   Repair Garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided
               throughout all buildings used as repair garages in accordance with Section 406, as
               shown:
                  1.   Buildings having two or more stories above grade plane, including
               basements, with a fire area containing a repair garage exceeding 10,000 square
               feet.
                  2.   Buildings not more than one story above grade plane, with a fire area
               containing a repair garage exceeding 10,000 square feet.
                  3.   Buildings with repair garages servicing vehicles parked in basements.
                  4.   A Group S fire area used for the repair of commercial motor vehicles where
               the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
               903.2.9.2   Bulk Storage of Tires. Buildings and structures where the area for the
               storage of tires exceeds 20,000 cubic feet (566 m3) shall be equipped throughout
               with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
               903.2.10   Group S-2 Enclosed Parking Garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall
               be provided throughout buildings classified as enclosed parking garages in
               accordance with Section 406.6 where either of the following conditions exist:
                  1.   Where the fire area of the enclosed parking garage exceeds 10,000 square
               feet (1115 m2).
                  2.   Where the enclosed parking garage is located beneath other groups.
               903.2.10.1   Commercial Parking Garages. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
               provided throughout buildings used for storage of commercial motor vehicles where
               the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet.
               903.2.10.2   Group U. An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout
               buildings containing Group U occupancies where the Group U fire area exceeds 5,000
               square feet.
               903.2.11   Specific Building Areas and Hazards. In all occupancies, an automatic
               sprinkler system shall be installed for building design or hazards in the locations
               set forth in Sections 903.2.11.1 through 903.2.11.6.
               Section 903.3.1.4 shall be amended by the addition of the following subsection:
               "903.3.1.4 Emergency Power Supply. Every automatic fire suppression system that
IBC            requires or is equipped with an electric fire pump shall have an emergency
Page Section   generator to provide power in the case of primary power loss.
223  903.3.1.4    Exception: Upon submittal of documentation from the Fire Chief having
               jurisdiction of the area, stating that he has reviewed all pertinent information
               concerning the interruption of the power supply of the area and is accepting the
               utility provider as a reliable power supply for the fire pump."
               Section 1008.2 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 1008.2 shall be
IBC  Section   inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 1008.2    "Section 1008.2 Illumination Required. The means of egress serving a room or space,
264            as well as all toilet rooms shall be illuminated at all times that the room or
               space is occupied."
               Section 1009 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 1009 shall be
IBC  Section   inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 1009         "Section 1009, Accessible Means of Egress
265            Section 1009. Accessible Means of Egress Required. Accessible means of egress shall
               comply with the 2018 State of Illinois Accessibility Code (410 ILCS 25/4)."
               Section 1010.1.5 shall be amended by the addition of the following Subsections:
                  1010.1.5.1 Grade Exit Discharge Doors. Where required to swing in the direction
               of egress travel, all required grade exit doors shall be provided with a hard-
               surfaced area underneath the door swing.
                  1010.1.5.2 Stoop Surface. The exterior surface shall have a slip-resistant
IBC  Section   surface that has a slope not greater than 1.50 in any direction.
Page 1010.1.5     1010.1.5.3 Support. Sufficient wing walls and/or foundation wall is required
271            under all stoops. Wing walls shall have a minimum of one (1) Number 4 reinforcing
               bar located not more than six (6) inches beneath the top edge of concrete and
               extending downward into the foundation wall not less than two (2) feet.
                  1010.1.5.4 Stoop Extension. The outer perimeter of the stoop shall not project
               out beyond the wing wall and/or foundation wall more than twelve (12) inches in any
               direction.
               Chapter 11 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Chapter 11 shall be inserted
IBC            in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
Page Chapter      Chapter 11, Accessibility
305  11        1101.1   Applicability. The provisions of the 2018 State of Illinois Accessibility
               Code (410 ILCS 25/4) shall control the design and construction of facilities for
               accessibility to physically disabled persons.
               Section 1608.1 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 1608.1 shall be
IBC  Section   inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
Page 1608.1    1608.1 In no case shall the ground snow load be less than 30 pounds per square
374            foot, but the design roof loads shall not be less than that determined by Section
               1607.
               Section 1808.7.4 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 1808.7.4 shall
IBC  Section   be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
Page 1808.7.4  1808.7.4   Foundation Elevation. On graded sites, the top of any exterior
441            foundation shall extend a minimum of six (6) inches above the finished grade
               adjacent to the building.
IBC  Section   The words "below the frost line of the locality" shall be deleted from Item #1, and
Page 1809.5    the words "a minimum of forty-two (42) inches measured from adjacent finished grade
443            level" shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
               Chapter 29 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Chapter 29 and a new Section
               2901, "General" shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which, shall read as follows:
IBC            "Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems"
Page Chapter   Section 2901, General
587  29        Section 2901.1 Scope. The provisions of the current adoption of the State of
               Illinois Plumbing Code shall govern the design, construction, erection and
               installation of plumbing components, appliances, equipment and systems used in
               buildings and structures covered by this Code.'
               Section 3103.1 shall be modified to add the following exception:
               "Exception:   In the event of a natural disaster, public emergency, pandemic or
IBC            other similar event, the Mayor or the Village Administrator, in consultation with
Page Section   the Building Official, is authorized to allow temporary tents or other approved
600  3103.1    temporary structures to be erected for periods exceeding 180 days without being
               required to comply with the International Building Code. Failure to maintain the
               structure in compliance with all requirements of this Section could result in
               revocation of this approval."
 
D.   The ICC International Residential Code, 2018 Edition: The ICC
International Residential Code, 2018 Edition (IRC), hereby adopted by the
Village shall be amended as follows:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
      ICC Electrical Code: Any and all references to the ICC Electrical Code are hereby deleted
(1)   and reference to the NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition, shall be inserted in
      lieu thereof.
      ICC International Energy Conservation Code: In addition to the requirements of Chapter 11,
(2)   all work that requires a building permit must also comply with the State of Illinois Energy
      Conservation Code, 2021 Edition.
      ICC International Plumbing Code: Any and all references to the ICC International Plumbing
(3)   Code are hereby deleted and reference to the State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition,
      shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
      ICC International Private Sewage Disposal Code: Any and all references to the ICC
(4)   International Private Sewage Disposal Code are hereby deleted and reference to the Lake
      County Code of Ordinances, Title XVII, "Health", shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
SPECIFIC AMENDMENTS:
IRC   Section  The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted, and the words "Village of Lake
Page  R101.1   Villa'' shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
1
               Section R101.2 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a new Section R101.2, "Scope",
               shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
               "R101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction,
IRC   Section  alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and
Page  R101.2   occupancy, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
1              dwellings and townhouses consisting of not more than two dwelling units that are
               not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of
               egress, and their accessory structures not more than three stories above grade
               plane in height."
IRC   Section  The words "DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY" shall be deleted, and the words "Village
Page  R103     of Lake Villa Building Department" shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
2
IRC   Section  The words "DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY" shall be deleted, and the words "Village
Page  R103.1   of Lake Villa Building Department" shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
2
IRC   Section  The last sentence in Section R103.3 is deleted with no substitution, i.e.: "Such
Page  R103.3   employees shall have powers as delegated by the building official." is deleted.
2
IRC
Pages Section  Section R105.2, "Work Exempt from Permit", is hereby deleted in its entirety.
3 and R105.2
4
IRC   Section  The words "Department of Building Safety" shall be deleted and the words "Building
Page  R105.3   Department" shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
4
               Section R105.5, "Expiration", shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section
               R105.5 shall be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
               R105.5 Permit Time Limits. All permits shall become void if:
                  1.   A substantial start of construction is not made within six (6) months from
               the date of issuance.
                  2.   Substantial work is not performed during any six (6) month period.
                  3.   Permits for one- or two-family dwellings and additions and/or alterations
               that exceed 400 square feet in area are not completed and a Certificate of
               Occupancy is not issued within two (2) years from the date of issuance.
                  4.   Permits for additions and/or alterations 400 square feet or less in area
               are not completed and a Certificate of Occupancy is not issued within one (1) year
               from the date of issuance.
IRC               5.   Permits for accessory buildings greater than 400 square feet in area are
Page  Section  not completed and a Certificate of Occupancy is not issued within one (1) year from
5     R105.5   the date of issuance.
                  6.   Permits for above-ground or in-ground swimming pools are not completed and
               a Certificate of Occupancy is not issued within a six (6) month period from the
               date of issuance.
                  7.   Permits for demolition are not completed within ninety (90) days after the
               date of issuance.
                  8.   Permits for fences, re-siding, re-roofing, decks, electrical upgrade,
               sheds, detached garages, screened porches and any minor alteration to an existing
               building that does not exceed 400 square feet are not completed and if applicable,
               a Certificate of Occupancy is not issued within six (6) months from the date of
               issuance.
               The building official is authorized, but not obligated, to grant, in writing, one
               or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each. The extension
               shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
               Section 105.7 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section 105.7 shall be
IRC   Section  inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
Page  105.7    Section 105.7 Placement of Permit. The building permit card shall be kept on the
5              site of the work in an accessible location and protected from adverse weather until
               the completion of the project.
IRC   Section  The words "two or more" shall be deleted and the word "three" shall be inserted in
Page  R106.1   lieu thereof.
6
               Section R106.1.1 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section R106.1.1 shall
               be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
               Section R106.1.1 Information on Construction Documents. Construction documents
               shall be dimensioned and drawn on suitable material. Minimum scale shall be one-
IRC   Section  eighth (1/8) inch per foot. Maximum scale shall be one-half (1/2) inch per foot.
Page  R106.1.1 Electronic media documents are permitted to be submitted where approved by the
6              Building Official. Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to
               indicate the location, nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail
               that it will conform to the provisions of this code and relevant laws, ordinances,
               rules and regulations, as determined by the Building Official.
                  Exception: Sections or sketches may be drawn to a larger scale for clarity.
               Section R106.1.4, "Information for Construction in Flood Hazard Areas", shall be
IRC   Section  deleted in its entirety and the following shall be inserted in lieu thereof:
Page  R106.1.4 "Section R106.1.4 Information for Construction in Flood Hazard Areas. Refer to the
6              Lake Villa Watershed Development Ordinance as adopted in Chapter 6 of Title 4 of
               the Lake Villa Code of Ordinances.
IRC   Section  Section R106.2, "Site Plan or Plot Plan", shall be amended by the deletion of the
Page  R106.2   words "a site plan" from the first sentence, and the words "three (3) site plans"
6              shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
IRC            Section R106.3.1, "Approval of Construction Documents", shall be amended by the
Page  R106.3.1 deletion of the words "that state 'Reviewed for Code Compliance'", with no
6              substitution.
IRC   Section  Section 110.3, "Certificate Issued", shall be amended by the deletion of the words
Page  R110.3   "Department of Building Safety" and the words "Building Department" shall be
8              inserted in lieu thereof.
IRC   Section
Page  R110.3   Section R110.3 shall be amended by the deletion of Items 7 through 9.
8
IRC            Section R112, "Board of Appeals", shall be deleted in its entirety and a new
Page  Section  Section R112 shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
9     R112     "Section R112. Appeals. The provisions of Section 8-1-15, "Appeals", of the Lake
               Villa Village Code shall govern and control the means of appeal."
               Section R113.4, "Violation Penalties", shall be amended by the deletion of the
IRC            words "penalties as prescribed by law" and the following shall be inserted in lieu
Page  Section  thereof: "mandatory fines and/or penalties as specified from time to time in
9     R113.4   Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to the
               Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village Code.
               Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense".
IRC   Section  Section R114 shall be amended by the addition of the following subsection:
Page  R114     "114.1.1 Enforcement. The provisions of Section 8-1-6 of the Lake Villa Village
9              Code shall govern and control the means of enforcement."
               Chapter 2, "Definitions", shall be amended by the addition of the following
               definitions in alphabetical order:
               ELECTRIC VEHICLE: An automotive-type vehicle for on-road use primarily powered by
               an electric motor that draws current from an onboard battery charged through a
               building electrical service, electric vehicle supply equipment (EVSE), or another
               source of electric current.
IRC   Chapter  EV-CAPABLE SPACE: A dedicated parking space with electrical panel capacity and
Page  2        space for a branch circuit dedicated to the EV parking space that is not less than
11             40 ampere and 208/240-volt and equipped with raceways, both underground and surface
               mounted, to
               enable the future installation of electric vehicle supply equipment.
               For two adjacent EV-Capable spaces, a single dedicated branch circuit is permitted.
               ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY EQUIPMENT(EVSE): The apparatus installed specifically for
               the purpose of transferring energy between the premises wiring and the Electric
               Vehicle.
IRC   Table
Page  R301.2   Table R301.2(1) shall be amended to read as set forth below:
32    (1)
 
   TABLE R301.2(1)
 
          Wind Design     Seismic  Subject to Damage From
Ground    Speed  Topograp Design   Weatherin Frost Line             Winter
Snow Load (mph)  hic      Category g         Depth      Termite     Design Temp
                 Effects
30        115    No       A        Severe    42"        Moderate to 2
                                                        Heavy
 
 
Ice Barrier           Flood Hazards         Air Freezing Index Mean Annual Temp
Underlayment Required
                      See Article 8 of the
Yes                   Lake County Unified   2,000              50°F
                      Development Ordinance
 
              Section R302.5.1 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a new Section
              R302.5.1 shall be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
              "R302.5.1 Opening Protection. Openings from a private garage directly
              into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Other
              openings between the garage and residence shall be equipped with 60-
              minute fire-rated doors, equipped with a self-closing or automatic-
IRC  Section  closing device.
Page R302.5.1    Exception: In dwellings protected by a residential automatic fire
60            suppression system, openings from a private garage directly into a room
              used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Other openings
              between the garage and residence shall be equipped with solid wood
              doors not less than 1-3/8 inches (35 mm) in thickness, solid or
              honeycomb core steel doors not less than 1-3/8 inches (35 mm thick, or
              20-minute fire rated doors, equipped with a self-closing or automatic-
              closing device."
               Section R302.5.1 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a new Section R302.5.1
               shall be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
               "R302.5.1 Opening Protection. Openings from a private garage directly into a room
               used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Other openings between the
               garage and residence shall be equipped with 60-minute fire-rated doors, equipped
IRC   Section  with a self-closing or automatic-closing device.
Page  R302.5.1    Exception: In dwellings protected by a residential automatic fire suppression
60             system, openings from a private garage directly into a room used for sleeping
               purposes shall not be permitted. Other openings between the garage and residence
               shall be equipped with solid wood doors not less than 1-3/8 inches (35 mm) in
               thickness, solid or honeycomb core steel doors not less than 1-3/8 inches (35 mm
               thick, or 20-minute fire rated doors, equipped with a self-closing or automatic-
               closing device."
               Table R302.6 shall be amended as follows:
                  1.   All references to half-inch (1/2") gypsum board shall be changed to 5/
IRC            8 inch Type X gypsum board.
Page  Table       2.   The last line in the table shall be deleted.
61    R302.6      3.   The following Exception shall be added:
                  Exception: One- and two-family dwellings that are protected by an automatic
               residential fire sprinkler system shall be allowed to substitute half-inch (1/2")
               gypsum board in place of 5/8 inch Type X gypsum board.
               Section R305.1 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a new Section R305.1 shall
IRC   Section  be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows:
Page  R305.1   "R305.1. Minimum Height. Habitable space, hallways, bathrooms, toilet rooms,
64             laundry rooms and portions of basements containing these spaces shall have a
               ceiling height of not less than seven feet six inches (7'6")."
               Exception number 3 is hereby deleted in its entirety, and in lieu thereof, a new
IRC            Exception number 3 is hereby added to Section R305.1, which shall read as
Page  Section  follows:
64    R305.1   "3. Ceilings in finished basements can have a minimum height less than seven feet
               six inches (7'6" provided that no permanently installed) fixtures or finished
               ceiling will extend below seven feet (7')."
               Section R311.2 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new Section R311.2 shall be
               inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as follows: Section R311.2 Egress Door.
               Not less than two (2) egress doors shall be provided for each dwelling unit. The
               required egress door shall be side-hinged and shall provide a clear width of not
               less than 32 inches (813mm) where measured between the face of the door and the
IRC   Section  stop, with the door open 90 degrees (1.57rad). The clear height of the door
Page  R311.2   opening shall be not less than 78 inches (1981mm) in height measured from the top
71             of the threshold to the bottom of the stop. Other doors shall not be required to
               comply with these minimum dimensions. Egress doors shall be readily openable from
               inside the dwelling without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort.
                  Exception 1: For dwellings provided with a residential automatic fire
               suppression system, only one (1) egress door will be required.
                  Exception 2: A sliding door can serve as a secondary means of egress.
IRC   Section  Section R313.2, "One- and Two-Family Dwellings, Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems"
Page  R313.2   is hereby deleted in its entirety.
75
               Section R322, "Flood Resistant Construction", is hereby deleted in its entirety
IRC            and a new Section R322 shall be inserted in lieu thereof which shall read as
Page  Section  follows:
81    R322     "Section R322. Flood Resistant Construction. Refer to the current Village of Lake
               Villa Watershed Development Ordinance as adopted in Chapter 6 of Title 4 of the
               Lake Villa Code of Ordinances."
      Tables
IRC   R403.1
Pages (1),     Tables R403.1(1), R403.1(2), and R403.1(3) are hereby deleted, and the following
92,   R403.1   Table R403.1 shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
93,   (2),     Table R403.1, Minimum Width of Concrete, Precast, or Masonry Footings (Inches)
and   and
94    R403.1
      (3)
 
Number of Stories and Type Thickness of Footing  Projection on Each Side of
of Construction            (Inches)              Foundation Wall (Inches)
Number of Stories and Type Thickness of Footing  Projection on Each Side of
of Construction            (Inches)              Foundation Wall (Inches)
   One Story (without basement)
Frame                      8                     4
Masonry veneer on frame    8                     4
Masonry                    8                     4
   One Story (with basement)
Frame                      8                     4
Masonry veneer on frame    8                     4
   Over One Story (with or without a basement)
Frame                      8                     4
Masonry veneer on frame    8                     4
Masonry                    12                    6
EXCEPTION: At the discretion of the Building Official, Tables R403.1(1),
R403.1(2) and R403.1(3) can be used if a soil report and foundation design,
both of which are prepared by a design professional registered in the State
of Illinois are submitted as an alternate to the above table.
 
 
                            Exception number 1 in Section R403.1.4.1 shall be
                            modified to read as follows:
IRC      Section R403.1.4.1 "1. Protection of free-standing accessory
Page 99                     structures with an area of 1,000 square feet or
                            less, of light-frame construction and with an eave
                            height of 10 feet or less shall not be required."
                            Section R405.1 shall be deleted in its entirety,
                            including the exception stated therein. A new
                            Section R405.1 is hereby inserted in lieu thereof,
                            which shall read as follows:
                            "R405.1 Concrete or Masonry Foundations. Drains
                            shall be provided around all concrete or masonry
                            foundations that retain earth and enclose crawl
                            spaces, habitable or usable spaces located below
                            grade. The foundation drain shall consist of
                            drainage tiles or perforated pipe placed on a
                            minimum of two inches (2") of washed gravel or
IRC      Section R405.1     crushed rock with a minimum aggregate size of one-
Page 130                    half inch (1/2") in diameter and covered with not
                            less than twelve inches (12") of the same material.
                            Foundation drains must be covered with a filter
                            membrane with a minimum width of eighteen inches
                            (18") Foundation drains must connect to a sump pit
                            located inside the basement or crawl space of the
                            dwelling. The drains must discharge by gravity or
                            mechanical means into an approved drainage system.
                            Foundation drains that do not discharge into an
                            approved storm sewer or drainage swale must
                            terminate a minimum of twenty feet (20') from all
                            property lines."
                            Section R408.6, "Finished Grade", shall be deleted
                            in its entirety, and a new Section R408.6 shall be
                            inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as
IRC                         follows:
Page 133 Section R408.6     "R408.6 Finished Grade. The finished grade of under
                            floor surfaces must be located a minimum of twenty-
                            four inches (24") and a maximum of forty-eight
                            inches (48") below the bottom of the floor
                            framing."
IRC                         Section R408.7, "Flood Resistance", is hereby
Page 134 Section R408.7     deleted in its entirety, with no substitution
                            therefor.
IRC      Section R602.3.2   Section R602.3.2, 'Top Plate", is hereby modified
Page 177                    by deleting the exceptions stated therein.
                            Section R903 is hereby modified by the addition of
                            the following subsection R903.5, which shall read
                            as follows:
                            "R903.5 Gutters and Downspouts. When a dwelling is
IRC                         provided with a basement or has habitable rooms
Page 432 Section R903       below grade, gutters and downspouts shall be
                            installed, unless omission is specifically
                            permitted by the Building Official. All exterior
                            doors, not protected with gutters, shall be
                            protected from roof runoff by a continuous gutter
                            and downspouts or an approved type diverter."
 
E.   ICC Existing Building Code, 2018 edition: The ICC Existing Building Code,
2018 edition (IEBC), hereby adopted by the Village shall be amended as follows:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
        ICC Electrical Code: Any and all references to the ICC Electrical Code
(1)     are hereby deleted and reference to the NFPA 70 National Electrical
        Code, 2017 Edition, shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
        ICC International Energy Conservation Code: Any and all references to
(2)     the ICC International Energy Conservation Code are hereby deleted and
        reference to the State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2021
        Edition, shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
        ICC International Plumbing Code: Any and all references to the ICC
(3)     International Plumbing Code are hereby deleted and reference to the
        State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition, shall be inserted in
        lieu thereof.
        Code Official: Any and all references to the "Code Official'' are
(4)     hereby deleted and reference to the "Building Official" shall be
        inserted in lieu thereof.
SPECIFIC AMENDMENTS:
IEBC                  The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted, and
Page 1  Section 101.1 the words "Village of Lake Villa" shall be inserted in
                      lieu thereof.
                      The words "applicable governing authority" shall be
                      deleted, and the words "the effective fee schedule as
IEBC    Section 108   specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees,
Page 7                Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to
                      the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations",
                      of the Lake Villa Village Code."
                      Section 113.4 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new
                      Section 113.4 shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which
                      shall read as follows:
                      "Section 113.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall
                      violate a provision of this Code or shall fail to comply
                      with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
                      install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of
IEBC                  the approved plans therefor and/or construction documents
Page 9  Section 113.4 or directive of the Code Official, or of a permit or
                      certificate issued under the provisions of this Code,
                      shall be guilty of a petty offense punishable by a
                      mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Chapter
                      18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts
                      Payable to the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative
                      Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village Code. Each day
                      that a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
                      separate offense."
IEBC                  The words "2009 Edition of ICC A117.1" shall be deleted,
Page 15 Section 301.5 and the words "2018 State of Illinois Accessibility Code"
                      (410 ILCS 25/4) shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
                      Any and all references to the International Private
IEBC    Section 302.3 Sewage Disposal Code are hereby deleted and reference to
Page 15               the Lake County Code of Ordinances, Title XVII, "Health"
                      shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
 
F.   ICC International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition: The ICC International
Mechanical Code, 2018 edition (IMC), hereby adopted by the Village shall be
amended as follows:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
       ICC Electrical Code: Any and all references to the ICC Electrical Code
(1)    are hereby deleted and reference to the NFPA 70 National Electrical
       Code, 2017 Edition, shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
       ICC International Energy Conservation Code: Any and all references to
(2)    the ICC International Energy Conservation Code are hereby deleted and
       reference to the State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2021
       Edition, shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
       ICC International Plumbing Code: Any and all references to the ICC
(3)    International Plumbing Code are hereby deleted and reference to the
       State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition, shall be inserted in lieu
       thereof.
       Code Official: Any and all references to the "Code Official" are hereby
(4)    deleted and reference to the "Building Official" shall be inserted in
       lieu thereof.
SPECIFIC AMENDMENTS:
IMC                    The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted, and
Page 1 Section 101.1   the words "Village of Lake Villa" shall be inserted in
                       lieu thereof.
                       The words "as indicated in the following schedule" and "
                       [JURISDICTION TO INSERT APPROPRIATE SCHEDULE]" shall be
IMC                    deleted, and the words "the effective fee schedule as
Page 5 Section 106.5.2 specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees,
                       Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to
                       the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations",
                       of the Lake Villa Village Code".
                       Section 108.1 shall be amended by the addition of the
IMC                    following subsection:
Page 6 Section 108.1   "108.1.1 Enforcement. The provisions of Section 8-1-6 of
                       the Village of Lake Villa Village Code shall govern and
                       control the means of enforcement."
                       Section 108.4 shall be amended to read as follows:
                       "Section 108.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall
                       be found guilty of violating a provision of this Code or
                       shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
                       thereof or who shall erect, install, alter or repair
                       mechanical work in violation of the approved plans
                       therefor and/or construction documents or directive of
IMC    Section         the Code Official, or of a permit or certificate issued
Page 7 108.4           under the provisions of this Code, shall be guilty of a
                       petty offense punishable by a mandatory fine as
                       specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees,
                       Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to
                       the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations",
                       of the Lake Villa Village Code. Each day that a
                       violation exists or continues shall constitute a
                       separate offense."
                       Section 108.5 shall be deleted in its entirety and a new
                       Section 108.5 shall be inserted in lieu thereof, which
                       shall read as follows:
                       "Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders. Upon written notice
                       from the Code Official that mechanical work is being
                       performed contrary to the provisions of this Code or in
                       a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall
                       immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
                       shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the
                       owner's authorized agent, or to the person doing the
                       work. The notice shall state the reason(s) that the stop
IMC                    work order is being issued and the conditions under
Page 7 Section 108.5   which work is authorized to resume. Where an emergency
                       exists, the Code Official shall not be required to give
                       a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person
                       who shall continue any work after having been served
                       with such a Stop Work Order. except such work as that
                       person is directed to perform to remove a violation or
                       to correct an unsafe condition, shall be subject to a
                       mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Chapter
                       18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts
                       Payable to the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative
                       Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village Code. Each day
                       that a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
                       separate offense."
                       Section 109,"Means of Appeal", shall be deleted in its
                       entirety and a new Section 109 shall be inserted in lieu
IMC    Section 109     thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 7                 "Section 109. Means of Appeal. The provisions of Section
                       8-1-15, "Appeals", of this Village Code shall govern and
                       control the means of appeal."
 
G.   ICC International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition: The ICC International Fuel
Gas Code, 2018 edition (IFGC), hereby adopted by the Village shall be amended
as follows:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
        ICC Electrical Code: Any and all references to the ICC Electrical Code
(1)     are hereby deleted and reference to the NFPA 70 National Electrical
        Code, 2017 Edition, shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
        ICC International Existing Building Code: Any and all references to the
(2)     ICC International Existing Building Code are hereby deleted, with no
        substitution, and in lieu thereof, a reference to the ICC International
        Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition, shall be inserted.
        ICC International Energy Conservation Code: Any and all references to
(3)     the ICC International Energy Conservation Code are hereby deleted and
        reference to the State of Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2021
        Edition, shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
        ICC International Plumbing Code: Any and all references to the ICC
(4)     International Plumbing Code are hereby deleted and reference to the
        State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition, shall be inserted in
        lieu thereof.
        Code Official: Any and all references to the "Code Official" are hereby
(5)     deleted and reference to the "Building Official" shall be inserted in
        lieu thereof.
SPECIFIED AMENDMENTS:
IFGC                     The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted,
Page 1  Section 101.1    and the words "Village of Lake Villa" shall be
                         inserted in lieu thereof.
                         The words "as indicated in the following schedule" and
                         "[JURISDICTION TO INSERT APPROPRIATE SCHEDULE)" shall
                         be deleted, and the words "the effective fee schedule
IFGC    Section 106.6.2  as specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees,
Page 5                   Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to
                         the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative
                         Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village Code" shall be
                         inserted in lieu thereof.
                         Section 108.4 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a
                         new Section 108.4 shall be inserted in lieu thereof,
                         which shall read as follows:
                         "Section 108.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who
                         shall violate a provision of this Code or shall fail
                         to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
                         shall violate a permit or certificate issued under the
IFGC    Section 108.4    provisions of this Code, shall be guilty of a petty
Page 7                   offense punishable by a mandatory fine as specified
                         from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges,
                         Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to the
                         Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations", of
                         the
                         Lake Villa Village Code. Each day that a violation
                         exists or continues shall constitute a separate
                         offense."
                         Section 108.5, "Stop Work Orders", shall be amended by
                         deleting the first reference to "[AMOUNT]" and
IFGC    Section 108.5    inserting "$100 per day", and by deleting the second
Page 7                   reference to "[AMOUNT]" and inserting "or more than
                         $750.00 per day. Each day that a violation exists or
                         continues shall constitute a separate offense."
                         Section 109,"Means of Appeal", shall be deleted in its
                         entirety and a new Section 109 shall be inserted in
IFGC    Section 109      lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 8                   "Section 109. Means of Appeal. The provisions of
                         Section 8-1-15, "Appeals", of this Village Code shall
                         govern and control the means of appeal."
                         Section 504.2.10 shall be deleted in its entirety and
IFGC                     a new Section 504.2.10 shall be inserted in lieu
Page 97 Section 504.2.10 thereof, which shall read as follows:
                         "504.2.10. Corrugated vent connectors are not
                         permitted."
 
H.   ICC International Swimming Pool And Spa Code, 2018 Edition: The ICC
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 edition (ISPSC), hereby adopted
by the Village shall be amended as follows:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
        Code Official: Any and all references to the "Code Official" are hereby
(1)     deleted and reference to the "Building Official" or "Building Officer''
        shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
        ICC International Plumbing Code: Any and all references to the ICC
(2)     International Plumbing Code are hereby deleted and reference to the
        State of Illinois Plumbing Code, 2014 Edition, shall be inserted in
        lieu thereof.
SPECIFIC AMENDMENTS:
ISPSC                   The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted,
Page 1  Section 101.1   and the words "Village of Lake Villa" shall be inserted
                        in lieu thereof.
                        The words "DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING SAFETY" shall be
ISPSC   Section 103.1   deleted, and the words "Office of the Building Officer"
Page 2                  or "Village of Lake Villa Building Department" shall be
                        inserted in lieu thereof.
                        Section 105.5.3 shall be amended by deleting the first
                        sentence in its entirety and inserting the following in
                        lieu thereof:
                        "Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the
ISPSC   Section 105.5.3 work authorized by such permit is commenced within 180
Page 2                  days after its issuance, or if the work authorized by
                        such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of
                        180 days after the time the work is commenced, or if
                        the work authorized by such permit is not completed
                        within one year of the date of permit issuance."
                        Section 105.5.4 shall be amended by the deletion of the
ISPSC                   last sentence in this section, with no substitution,
Page 4  Section 105.5.4 i.e.: "The fee for an extension shall be one half the
                        amount required for a new permit for such work" shall
                        be deleted.
                        The words "[JURISDICTION TO INSERT APPROPRIATE
                        SCHEDULE]" shall be deleted, and the words "the
ISPSC                   effective fee schedule as specified from time to time
Page 4  Section 105.6.2 in Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and
                        Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title 1,
                        "Administrative Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village
                        Code".
                        Section 105.6.3, "Fee Refunds", shall be deleted in its
                        entirety, and a new Section 105.6.3 shall be inserted
                        in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
ISPSC                   "Section 105.6.3 The Building Official shall authorize
Page 4  Section 105.6.3 the refunding of fees when authorized from time to time
                        in Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and
                        Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title 1,
                        "Administrative Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village
                        Code."
                        Section 107.4, "Violation Penalties", shall be deleted
                        in its entirety, and a new Section 107.4 shall be
                        inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
                        "Section 107.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who
                        shall violate any provision of this Code or shall fail
                        to comply with any of the requirements thereof or shall
                        erect, install, alter, or repair a pool or spa in
ISPSC                   violation of the approved plans therefor and/or the
Page 6  Section 107.4   construction documents or directive of the Building
                        Official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
                        the provisions of this Code, shall be subject to a
                        mandatory fine as specified from time to time in
                        Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other
                        Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title 1,
                        "Administrative Regulations", of the Lake Villa Village
                        Code. Each day a violation exists or continues shall
                        constitute a separate offense."
                        Section 108, "Means of Appeal", shall be deleted in its
                        entirety, and a new Section 108 shall be inserted in
ISPSC   Section 108     lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 7                  "Section 108. Appeals. The provisions of Section 8-1-
                        15, "Appeals", of the Village Code shall govern and
                        control the means of appeal."
                        Section 304.1, "General", shall be deleted in its
                        entirety and a new Section 304.1 shall be inserted in
ISPSC                   lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 14 Section 304.1   "Section 304.1 General. Refer to the current version of
                        the Lake Villa Watershed Development Ordinance as
                        adopted in Chapter 6 of Title 4 of the Lake Villa Code
                        of Ordinances."
        Sections        Section 304.2, "Determination of Impacts Based on
ISPSC   304.2           Location", through Section 304.2.2 shall be deleted in
Page 14 Through         their entirety, with no substitution.
        304.2.2
                        The first paragraph of Section 305.4 shall be deleted,
                        and the following shall be inserted in lieu thereof:
ISPSC   Section 305.4   "Where a wall of a dwelling or structure serves as part
Page 15                 of the barrier, doors that provide direct access to the
                        aquatic vessel through the wall shall be equipped with
                        one or more of the following:"
                        Section 305.4.1 shall be deleted in its entirety, and a
                        new Section 305.4.1 shall be inserted in lieu thereof,
                        which shall read as follows:
                        "Section 305.4.1. Operable windows without screens
                        installed and having a sill height of less than 48
                        inches (1219mm) above the indoor finished floor and
                        doors shall have an alarm that produces an audible
                        warning when the window, door or their screens are
                        opened. The alarm shall be listed and labeled as a
ISPSC   Section 305.4.1 water hazard entrance alarm in accordance with UL 2017.
Page 15                 In dwellings or structures not required to be
                        Accessible units, Type A units or Type B units, the
                        operable parts of the alarm deactivation switches shall
                        be located 54 inches (1372mm) or more above the
                        finished floor. In dwellings or structures required to
                        be Accessible units, Type A units or Type B units, the
                        operable parts of the alarm deactivation switches shall
                        be located not greater than 54 inches (1372mm) and not
                        less than 48 inches
                        (1219mm) above the finished floor."
 
I.   ICC International Fire Code, 2018 Edition: The ICC International Fire
Code, 2018 edition (IFC), hereby adopted by the Village shall be amended as
follows:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
GENERAL AMENDMENTS:
        Code Official: Any and all references to the "Fire Code Official" are
(1)     hereby deleted and reference to the "Building Official" or "Building
        Officer" shall be inserted in lieu thereof.
SPECIFIC AMENDMENTS:
IFC                   The words "[NAME OF JURISDICTION]" shall be deleted, and
Page 1  Section 101.1 the words "Village of Lake Villa" shall be inserted in
                      lieu thereof.
IFC     Section 103   Section 103, "Department of Fire Prevention", shall be
Page 2                deleted, with no substitution.
IFC     Section       Section 105.1.2, "Types of Permits", shall be amended by
Page 4  105.1.2       the deletion of that title and of item #1 and the
                      renumbering of item #2 as item #1.
                      Section 109, "Board of Appeals", shall be deleted in its
                      entirety and a new Section 109 shall be inserted in lieu
IFC     Section 109   thereof, which shall read as follows:
Page 13               "Section 109. Appeals. The provisions of Section 8-1-15,
                      "Appeals" of the Lake Villa Village Code shall govern and
                      control the means of appeal."
                      Section 110.4, "Violation Penalties", shall be deleted in
                      its entirety and a new Section 110.4 shall be inserted in
                      lieu thereof, which shall read as follows:
                      "Section 110.4 Violation Penalties. Any person who shall
                      violate any provision of this Code or shall fail to
                      comply with any of the requirements thereof or directive
IFC     Section       of the Code Official, or of a permit or certificate
Page 14 110.4         issued under the provisions of this Code, shall be guilty
                      of a petty offense and shall be subject to a mandatory
                      fine as specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees,
                      Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to
                      the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative Regulations",
                      of the Lake Villa Village Code. Each day that a violation
                      exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense."
 
J.   2017 NFPA 70 National Electrical Code: The 2017 NFPA 70 National
Electrical Code (NEC), hereby adopted by the Village shall be amended as
follows:
                         The following new section shall be added in numerical
NEC        New           order:
Page 70-32 Section Added "90.10 Means of Appeal. The provisions of Section 8-1-
                         15, "Appeals", of the Lake Villa Village Code shall
                         govern and control the means of appeal."
                                 The following new section shall be added in
                                 numerical order:
NEC             New              "90.10 Means of Appeal. The provisions of
Page 70-32      Section Added    Section 8-1-15, "Appeals", of the Lake Villa
                                 Village Code shall govern and control the
                                 means of appeal."
                                 The following shall be added to Article 210.8
                                 (A):
                                 "Exception to (4): Receptacles supplying power
                                 to sump pumps, battery backup sump pumps and
                                 ejector pumps in the areas noted above must
                                 also be protected by an alarm that indicates a
                                 tripped condition of the GFCI protection
NEC             Article          device."
Page 70-59      210.8(A)         AND
                                 The following sentence shall be added to
                                 "Exception to (5)":
                                 "Receptacles supplying power to sump pumps,
                                 battery backup sump pumps and ejector pumps in
                                 the areas noted above must also be protected
                                 by an alarm that indicates a tripped condition
                                 of the GFCI protection device."
                                 The following shall be added to Article 210.8
                                 (8):
                                 "Exception to (10): Receptacles supplying
NEC             Article          power to sump pumps, battery backup sump pumps
Page 70-59      210.8(8)         and ejector pumps in the areas noted above
                                 must also be protected by an alarm that
                                 indicates a tripped condition of the GFCI
                                 protection device."
                                 The exception in Article 210.12, "Arc-Fault
                                 Circuit-Interrupter Protection (AFCI)", shall
                                 be amended to revise Exception to 210- 12(0)
                                 as follows:
                                 "Exception to 210-12(0): AFCI protection shall
NEC                              not be required where the extension of the
Page            Article 210.12   existing conductors is not more than 1.8m (6
70-60/ 61                        feet) and does not include any additional
                                 outlets or devices, and in circumstances where
                                 the Building Official deems that it is not
                                 practical to comply with this requirement due
                                 to existing conditions, the requirement can be
                                 waived, provided every reasonable effort is
                                 made to comply with the intent of this Code."
                                 Section A of Article 230.28 shall be amended
NEC             Article          to read as follows: "(A) Strength. Service
Page            230.28(A)        masts used for the support of overhead service
70-86                            drop conductors need to meet current utility
                                 company requirements."
                                 Article 230.43 shall be deleted in its
                                 entirety and a new Article 230.43 shall be
                                 inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as
NEC                              follows:
Page            Article          "Article 230.43 Unless special permission is
70-87           230.43           granted by authority having jurisdiction, only
                                 the following wiring methods shall be used for
                                 service entrance conductors: (1) Rigid metal
                                 conduit (RMC); (2) Intermediate metal conduit
                                 (IMC); (3) Electrical metallic tubing (EMT)"
                                 Article 300.5(A), "Minimum Cover
                                 Requirements", shall be amended by the
                                 addition of the following at the end of this
                                 section:
                                 "Underground installation of electrical
                                 conductors cannot be located in the same
                                 trench with plumbing or gas service(s) unless
                                 the distance between all utility services
                                 located in the same trench is a minimum of
NEC 70-136- 137 Article 300.5(A) twelve inches (12") measured in a horizontal
                                 dimension. Utility services located in
                                 separate trenches shall be located a minimum
                                 of twelve inches (12") apart horizontally.
                                 Exception: Plumbing and electrical systems
                                 that are part of a swimming pool installation
                                 may be located in the same trench in
                                 circumstances where the Building Official
                                 determines that it is not practical to comply
                                 with the separation requirement."
                                 Article 320.12, "Uses Not Permitted", shall be
NEC 70-182      Article 320.12   amended by the addition of the following:
                                 "(6) In any occupancy other than one- and two-
                                 family dwellings."
                                 Article 334.10, "Uses Permitted", shall be
                                 amended by the deletion of Items (2), (3) and
                                 (5), with no substitution, i.e.:
                                 "(2) Multi family dwellings permitted to be of
                                 Types III, IV, and V construction.
                                 (3) Other structures permitted to be of Types
                                 III, IV, and V construction. Cables shall be
                                 concealed within walls, floors, or ceilings
                                 that provide a thermal barrier of material
                                 that has at least a 15 minute finish rating as
                                 identified in listings of fire rated
NEC 70-191      Article 334.10   assemblies. [Informational Note No. 1: Types
                                 of building construction and occupancy
                                 classifications are defined in NFPA 220 2015,
                                 Standard on Types of Building Construction, or
                                 the applicable building code, or both.
                                 Informational Note No. 2: See information
                                 Annex E for determination of building types
                                 (NFPA 220, Table 3-1.]
                                 (5) Types 1 and II construction where
                                 installed within raceways permitted to be
                                 installed in Types I and II construction."
                                 shall all be deleted.
                                 Article 80.15(G) shall be deleted in its
                                 entirety, and a new Article 80.15(G) shall be
                                 inserted in lieu thereof, which shall read as
NEC 70-811      Article 80.15(G) follows:
                                 "Article 80.15(G): The provisions of Section
                                 8-1-15, "Appeals", of the Lake Villa Village
                                 Code shall govern and control the means of
                                 appeal."
 
(Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-14-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-08-02, 8-21-2023; Ord. 2024-12-02,
12-2-2024)
8-4-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-14-2018)
8-4-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-14-2018)
8-4-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-14-2018)
8-4-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2018-02-01, 2-14-2018)
8-4-6: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; ADOPTION:
The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018 Edition, and all appendices,
which shall sometimes be referred to herein as the “Lake Villa Property
Maintenance Code” or as the “Property Maintenance Code”, which code and
appendices have been on file for inspection and/or for copying by the public in
the Office of the Village Clerk for at least thirty (30) days prior to the
adoption hereof, is hereby adopted by reference, and made a part of this title
except for such deletions or substitutions of sections as hereinafter provided,
and the following additions and/or amendments to the Lake Villa Property
Maintenance Code shall also be and are hereby adopted and approved:
   A.   General Amendments:
      1.   In all chapters and sections of the property maintenance code where
the “name of jurisdiction” is written, insert “village of Lake Villa”, and
where “chief appointing authority” is written, insert “mayor and board of
trustees”;
      2.   In all chapters and sections of the property maintenance code the
village administrator, or his designee, is designated as the code official;
      3.   In all chapters and sections of the property maintenance code where
“international handicapped accessibility code” is written, insert “currently
adopted state of Illinois accessibility code”;
      4.   In all chapters and sections of the property maintenance code where
“ICC electrical code” is written, insert “the national electrical code - 2017
Edition as adopted”.
      5.   In all chapters and sections of the property maintenance code where
“international plumbing code” is written, insert “the state of Illinois
plumbing code as adopted”.
   B.   Administration: The International Property Maintenance Code, 2018
Edition, as hereby adopted, shall be amended as follows:
      (1) Section 102.3 of the international property maintenance code is
hereby deleted, and in lieu thereof, a new section 102.3 is hereby adopted,
which shall provide as follows:
         “102.3, Application Of Other Codes. Repairs, additions or alterations
to a structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the title 8, “Building Regulations”, of the Lake
Villa village code, and such codes as adopted therein from time to time.
Wherever this property maintenance code refers to the international zoning
code, such reference shall be construed to mean the Lake Villa zoning
ordinance. Nothing in this property maintenance code shall be construed to
cancel, modify or set aside any provision(s) of the Lake Villa zoning
ordinance.”
      (2) Section 103.1, “General”, shall be amended to read as follows:
         “103.1, General. The executive official in charge thereof shall be
known as the code office, or the village administrator, or his designee.”
      (3) Section 103.5, “Fees”, shall be amended to read as follows:
         “103.5, Fees. In addition to any other fees charged by the village,
there shall be an inspection fee charged per inspection in an amount as
specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and
Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title 1, "Administrative
Regulations", for any inspection conducted by the code official pursuant to
this property maintenance code.”
      (4) Section 106.4 of the international property maintenance code is
hereby deleted, and in lieu thereof, a new section 106.4 is hereby adopted,
which shall provide as follows:
         “106.4, Violation Penalties. Any person who shall violate any
provision of this property maintenance code or shall fail to comply with any of
the requirements thereof or who shall erect, construct, alter or repair a
building or structure in violation of an approved plan or directive of the code
official, or any officer or employee of the village duly authorized by the
village administrator, or his designee, or of a permit or certificate issued
under the provisions of any building regulations adopted by the village from
time to time, and/or any person who shall fail to maintain a building or
structure in compliance with this code shall be guilty of a petty offense,
punishable by a fine as specified from time to time in Chapter 18, "Fees,
Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of Title
1, "Administrative Regulations", of the Lake Villa village code. Each day that
a violation exists and/or continues shall be deemed a separate offense.”
      (5) Section 108.2, “Closing Of Vacant Structures”, is hereby amended by
the addition of a new section 108.2.2, “Boarded Up Structures”, which shall
read as follows:
         “108.2.2, Boarded Up Structures. Boarding up a structure is considered
a temporary measure until a decision can be made as to what remedy the owner
wants to or is required by the village to pursue as provided in this property
maintenance code, but such board-up cannot exceed six (6) months unless an
extension of an additional six months is granted in writing by the code
official. Any structure boarded up in excess of six (6) months (or in excess of
twelve (12) months, if the code official has given written approval for an
extension), shall be considered abandoned and a public nuisance, and the
village may pursue whatever action is afforded to it under this property
maintenance code, other appropriate ordinances, and state statutes, to cause
the abatement of the said public nuisance.”
      (6) Section 110.1, “General”, shall be amended to read as follows:
         “110.1, General. The village may demolish, repair, or enclose, or
cause the demolition, repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the territory of the village and
further recover its costs in connection therewith pursuant to the provisions of
section 11-31-1 of the Illinois municipal code, 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, and other
applicable Illinois statutes.”
      (7) Section 111, “Means Of Appeal”, shall be amended to read as follows:
         “111, Means Of Appeal. The appeals shall follow the existing appeals
procedure to the zoning board of appeals as provided in the Lake Villa zoning
ordinance.”
      (8) Section 112.4, “Failure To Comply”, shall be amended to read as
follows:
         “112.4, Failure To Comply. Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such specific work as
that person is directed by the code official to perform to remove a violation
or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine as specified in Chapter 18,
"Fees, Charges, Deposits, Fines, and Other Amounts Payable to the Village", of
Title 1, "Administrative Regulations", of the village code, as aforesaid.”
      (9) Section 202, “General Definitions”, is hereby amended as follows:
         (a) The definition of “noxious weeds” shall be added and shall read as
follows:
         “Noxious Weeds: Shall mean any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cocklebur, and all of those weeds and nuisance vegetation as described
in section 302.4, “Weeds And Other Nuisance Vegetation”, hereof, or such other
weeds of a like kind found growing in or on any lot or tract of land in the
village.”
         (b) The definition of the word “rubbish” shall be amended to read as
follows:
         “Rubbish: Waste material, including but not limited to garbage and
refuse and such other items as cans, bottles, glass, wood, metal, plastic,
rags, boxes, paper, tires, auto parts; dismantled machinery or appliances or
parts of such machinery or appliances or other household items; lumber;
building materials; and anything whatsoever that is or may become a hazard to
public health and safety, or that may harbor insects, rodents, or vermin
infestation.”
      (10) Section 302.4, “Weeds”, is hereby deleted in its entirety, and a new
section 302.4, “Weeds And Other Nuisance Vegetation”, shall be substituted
therefor, which new section shall read as follows:
         “302.4, Weeds And Other Nuisance Vegetation.
            A. It shall be unlawful for the owner(s) and occupant(s) of any
premises in the village and their respective agents to permit weeds or other
nuisance vegetation to remain on such premises in violation of this section A,
in violation of any other provisions of the Lake Villa village code, or in
violation of any other ordinance of this village. The owner(s), occupant(s),
and their respective agent(s) of any real estate within the corporate limits of
the village shall be responsible for the removal of and shall cause the cutting
and, where directed by the village, the trimming of trees and bushes when
required by this section, and the abatement of nuisance vegetation as required
by this section in a manner approved by the village administrator, or his or
her designee. The abatement of weeds and other nuisance vegetation shall
include but not be limited to proper cutting of such nuisance vegetation, the
removal of the stumps of any such nuisance trees and the removal and disposal
of all such nuisance vegetation in a manner approved by the village
administrator, or his designee.
            B. Abatement By Village: The officers, employees, and agents of the
village are hereby authorized to enter upon private property to inspect such
property and the vegetation thereon for violations of this chapter, taking
samples to be tested to determine whether said vegetation is, in fact, dead,
diseased or infected, and/or for the purpose of abating any and all such
violations.
            C. Costs As A Lien: The village administrator, or his designee, may
cause the cutting and/or removal of nuisance vegetation as defined in this
section, and/or the trimming of trees and bushes, when the owner(s) of real
estate refuse or neglect to cut, trim, and/or remove them after a written
notice and request for cutting, trimming, and/or removal has been mailed to
such person(s) by regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid, not less than ten (10)
days in advance and the village may then collect from such person(s) the
reasonable cost thereof, provided, however, notwithstanding the foregoing
requirement for written notice, no such prior written notice and request
pursuant to this section shall be required if the person(s) responsible for
such condition have been mailed a notice and request relative to a similar
condition by the village within the prior twelve (12) months. Such cost(s)
shall not be a lien on the underlying parcel unless a notice is personally
served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax
bill for the general taxes on the property for the taxable year immediately
preceding the removal activities. Such notice must also be delivered or sent
after the removal activities have been performed and said notice must: (1)
include a copy of this section and include copies of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-20-7 and 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15, which statute
is applicable to all such liens; (2) identify the underlying parcel, by common
description; and (3) describe the removal activity.
            D. For purposes of this section, “weeds” shall include the
following: burdock, ragweed (giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur,
jimson, blue vervain, common milk weed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard,
rough pigweed, lambsquarter, wild lettuce, curled dock, smart weeds (all
varieties), poison hemlock, wild hemp, buckthorn, goldenrod, yellow and white
sweet clover, and all other weeds and non-native species of a like kind, which
shall be kept to a maximum height of eight inches (8") on all property within
the village.
            E. For purposes of this section, “nuisance vegetation” shall
include the following: unmanaged ground cover and/or bushes, including non-
native prairie species as buckthorn, goldenrod, yellow and white sweet clover,
which shall be kept to a maximum height of eight inches (8") on all property
within the village.
            F. For the purposes of this section, the term “nuisance vegetation”
shall mean weeds as defined above, unmanaged groundcover and/or bushes as
described above, grass exceeding a maximum height of eight inches (8"), and/or
any tree or other plant in violation of or the maintenance of which is in
violation of this section, in violation of any other provisions of this village
code, or any other ordinance of the village, and/or which is determined by the
village administrator, or his designee, to be dead, diseased or infected, or to
otherwise be a potential hazard or threat to the public health and safety.
            G. For purposes of this section, in the event that it is determined
by the village administrator, or his designee, that vegetation is, in fact,
dead, diseased or infested, or otherwise constitutes nuisance vegetation as
defined herein, said vegetation shall be and is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and a type of public nuisance for the purposes of this section.
            H. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this section
shall not be applicable to any vegetation on village-owned, or community-
association owned, open space, park(s), or preserve(s), or to any vegetation on
the unimproved portion of any right-of-way maintained by the village.”
               (11) Section 302.7, “Accessory Structures”, shall be amended to
read as follows:
                  “302.7, Accessory Structures. All accessory structures,
including detached garages, carports, awnings, patio covers, sheds, signs and
sign structures, storage buildings, benches and similar accessory structures
shall be maintained structurally sound and free from deterioration. Accessory
structures shall also be maintained free from chipped and peeling paint, and
metal structures shall be maintained free from rust.”
               (12) Section 302.8, “Motor Vehicles”, shall be amended to read
as follows:
                  “302.8, Motor Vehicles.
                     (a) No unregistered motor vehicle shall be parked on any
property for a period of more than seven (7) days, unless parked within an
enclosed permanent building or garage.
                     (b) In residential zones, no registered or unregistered
motor vehicle shall be parked on any property in any state of inoperability,
disassembly, or disrepair, nor shall any such vehicle be in the process of
being dismantled or repaired, for a period greater than seven (7) days, unless
kept within an enclosed permanent building or garage.
                     (c) No registered or unregistered motor vehicle shall be
parked or stored in any residential yard, and all such motor vehicles shall
only be parked or stored on an approved driveway or parking surface or within a
permanent building or garage.
                     (d) Painting of vehicles is prohibited in all residential
zones.
                     (e) Painting of vehicles is prohibited in all non-
residential zones, unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
                     (f) Unregistered, unlicensed, and abandoned vehicles are
declared a public nuisance. In addition to all other remedies, the village
shall have such further remedies to abate such nuisances as are contained in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 et seq., and 5/4-201 through and
including 5/4-213 are hereby adopted by reference.
                     (g) For the purposes of this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings as set forth below:
                        (i) A “vehicle” is defined as a machine propelled by
power other than human power designed to travel along the ground by use of
wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport persons or property or pull
machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobile, truck, trailer,
motorcycle, tractor, buddy and wagon.
                        (ii) An “abandoned vehicle” is defined as any vehicle
located on public or private property, which is allowed to remain on public
property or on private property without the consent of the property owner for a
period of more than twenty-four (24) hours.
                        (iii) An “unregistered” and/or “unlicensed” vehicle is
defined as any vehicle which under the laws of the state of Illinois would be
required to be licensed or registered in order to be operated on public
highways within the state and/or which under the ordinances of the village is
required to bear a current sticker unless the vehicle shall be entirely within
a suitable fully enclosed building.”
               (13) Section 302.9, “Defacement Of Property”, shall be amended
to read as follows:
                  “302.9, Defacement Of Property. No person shall willfully or
wantonly damage, mutilate, or deface any exterior surface of any structure or
building on any private or public property by placing thereon any marking,
carving, or graffiti. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of such
structure or building to restore said surface to a state of maintenance and
repair immediately upon defacement as approved by the code official.”
               (14) Section 304, “Exterior Structure”, shall be amended by the
addition of a new subsection 304.10.1, “Exterior Fire Escapes”, which new
subsection shall read as follows:
                  “304.10.1, Exterior Fire Escapes. All exterior fire escapes
and stairways shall be kept free of mud, debris, snow, ice or other
obstructions. Any exterior fire escape or exterior stairway found to be in a
state of deterioration or determined to be unsafe by the code official shall be
repaired immediately.”
               (15) Section 304.3, “Premises Identification”, shall be amended
to read as follows:
                  “304.3, Premises Identification. In the case of residential
buildings, each of the figures of the street number shall be not less than
three inches (3") nor more than six inches (6") in height, being so marked as
to be distinctive and easily read. Each of the figures of the street number
shall be in arabic numerals and/or alphabetic letters and shall be of a color
that contrasts with its background. The numbers shall be placed in a
conspicuous place on the side of the building that faces the street. The
numbers shall be placed not less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet
(8') above the first floor of the building and as close to the front door of
the building as practicable. In the case of commercial buildings, each of the
figures of every number shall be not less than three inches (3") nor more than
ten inches (10") in height and the street number shall be placed in the front
door or within three feet (3') of the front door of the building.”
               (16) Section 304.14, “Insect Screens”, shall be amended to read
as follows:
                  “304.14, Insect Screens. During the period from May 15 to
October 31, every door, window and other outside opening required for
ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas, or
any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored, shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16
mesh per 25 mm) and every swinging door shall have a self-closing device in
good working condition.”
               (17) Section 309.2, “Owner”, shall be deleted in its entirety.
               (18) Section 309.3, “Single Occupant”, shall be deleted in its
entirety.
               (19) Section 309.4, “Multiple Occupancy”, shall be deleted in
its entirety.
               (20) Section 309.5, “Occupant”, shall be deleted in its
entirety.
               (21) Section 602.2 of the Lake Villa property maintenance code
is hereby deleted, and in lieu thereof, a new section 602.2 is hereby adopted,
which shall provide as follows:
                  “Section 602.2, Residential Occupancies. Dwellings shall be
provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of
65 degrees F in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on a
winter outdoor design temperature of -4 degrees F. Cooking appliances shall not
be used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.”
               (22) Section 602.3 of the Lake Villa property maintenance code
is hereby deleted, and in lieu thereof, a new section 602.3 is hereby adopted,
which shall provide as follows:
                  “Section 602.3, Heat Supply. Every owner and operator of any
building who rents, leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit,
dormitory or guestroom on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish heat
to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from October 1 to
April 30 to maintain a temperature of not less than 65 degrees F. in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
                  Exception: When the outdoor temperature is below -4 degrees
F., maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall not be required provided
that the heating system is operating at its full design capacity.”
               (23) Section 602.4 of the property maintenance code is hereby
deleted, and in lieu thereof, a new section 602.4 is hereby adopted, which
shall provide as follows:
                  “Section 602.4, Occupiable Work Spaces. Indoor occupiable
work spaces shall be supplied with heat during the period from October 1 to
April 30 to maintain a temperature of not less than 65 degrees F. during the
period the spaces are occupied.
                  Exceptions:
                  1. Processing, storage and operation areas that require
cooling or special temperature conditions.
                  2. Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous
physical activities.”
                  (Ord. 2014-08-03, 8-27-2014; amd. Ord. 2024-12-02, 12-2-2024)
8-4-7: ELEVATOR AND ESCALATOR STANDARDS 1 :
The installation, repair, or modification of elevators, escalators, and other
conveyance after the effective date of this section shall be in accordance with
the standards as adopted by the State of Illinois in the Elevator Safety and
Regulation Act, 225 ILCS 312/1 et seq., and the State of Illinois Elevator
Safety Administrative Rules, 41 Ill. Admin. Code 1000, as they may be amended
from time to time, which regulations are hereby adopted and incorporated herein
by reference. (Ord. 2009-09-05, 9-23-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-12-02, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 14 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING PERMIT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Residential Units
8-5-3: Nonresidential New Construction
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose additional building permit fees on
building permit permittees for new construction to offset the costs that are
incurred by the village and the applicable fire protection and library
districts for their respective services from the time that the building permit
is first issued to the time that ad valorem real estate taxes are received on
the improved property. During that time period, the village provides additional
services through both its police department and its department of public works,
and the applicable fire protection and library districts provide services as
well, all without any corresponding offsetting tax revenue generated by the
building permit site and/or the related new construction activity. It is the
intent of this chapter to impose fees to eliminate the gap, or the so called
"lag", between the providing of such services and the initial receipt of
revenue to pay for them. (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008)
8-5-2: RESIDENTIAL UNITS:
As a precondition to the issuance of any building permit for the construction
of a residential unit, the permittee shall pay, in addition to other building
permit fees required by this Village Code, additional building permit impact
fees, in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be charged per residential unit. For example,
if the application is for a duplex, that amount which would be required to be
paid would be twice the fee for a single residential unit. The respective
impact fees per residential unit shall be allocated, appropriated, and/or
distributed as follows in order to reflect the impact of such new construction:
   A.   Thirty percent (30%) of the required impact fee amount for police
services to the village general corporate fund.
   B.   Twenty percent (20%) of the required impact fee amount for road and
streets to the village general corporate fund.
   C.   Twenty percent (20%) of the required impact fee amount to the library
district within which the property is situated.
   D.   Thirty percent (30%) of the required impact fee amount for the fire
protection district within which the property is situated.
   E.   Consistent with the village's goal of intergovernmental cooperation
with such districts, the funds (less any accrued interest) received relative to
the services of such districts shall be disbursed quarterly to such districts.
(Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
8-5-3: NONRESIDENTIAL NEW CONSTRUCTION:
Prior to the issuance of a building permit for any new construction which is
nonresidential, such as office, commercial, industrial, or institutional, the
permittee shall pay, in addition to other building permit fees required by this
Village Code, additional building permit impact fees based upon the square
footage of the structure or a flat fee, whichever is greater, all as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The funds shall be allocated and appropriated,
and/or distributed as follows in order to reflect the impact of such new
construction:
   A.   Thirty-three and one-third percent (33%) per square foot for police
services to the village general corporate fund.
   B.   Thirty-three and one-third percent (33%) per square foot for roads and
streets to the village general corporate fund.
   C.   Thirty-three and one-third percent (33%) per square foot to the fire
protection district within which the property is situated. Consistent with the
village's goal of intergovernmental cooperation with such fire protection
district(s), any such funds (less any accrued interest) shall be disbursed
quarterly to such fire protection district(s). (Ord. 2008-09-01, 9-24-2008;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
TITLE 9
OFFICIAL PLAN
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
9-1-1: Official Comprehensive Plan Adopted, Ratified And Approved
9-1-2: Subdivision Plats To Conform To Plan
9-1-3: Lake Villa Downtown Transit Oriented Development Plan
9-1-4: Lake Villa Downtown Vision Plan
9-1-1: OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED, RATIFIED AND APPROVED:
   A.   The Village of Lake Villa 2022 Comprehensive Plan and 2022 Official
Land Use Map prepared by Teska Associates is hereby adopted, ratified, and
approved as the Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan, and the 2022 Official
Land Use Map, which is part thereof, is hereby adopted, ratified, and approved
(collectively, the "2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan") and supersede
and replace all previously approved comprehensive plans and comprehensive land
use maps previously adopted by the Village.
   B.   The plan for general development of the Village and the area contiguous
thereto, as contained in the 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan and
2022 Official Land Use Map which is part thereof is the Official Comprehensive
Plan of the Village and may be amended from time to time pursuant to law with
or without amendment of this Code. (Ord. 2022-01-03, 1-4-2022)
9-1-2: SUBDIVISION PLATS TO CONFORM TO PLAN:
No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record affecting lands within
the corporate limits of the Village or any contiguous territory outside of and
distant not more than one and one-half (1 1/2 ) miles from the corporate limits
of the Village shall be approved by the Corporate Authorities or be entitled to
record or shall be valid unless such subdivision complies with the 2022 Lake
Villa Official Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 2022-01-03, 1-4-2022)
9-1-3: LAKE VILLA DOWNTOWN TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
The 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan and the 2022 Official Land Use
Map, which is part thereof, are hereby amended by the incorporation therein by
reference of the Lake Villa Downtown Transit Oriented Development Plan prepared
by Teska Associates, Inc., Fish Transportation Group, Business District, Inc.,
and the Wohltgroup and last revised September 11, 2013, which was previously
approved and adopted by the Corporate Authorities of the Village by Ordinance
No. 2013-09-01 (the "Downtown TOD Plan"), and said Lake Villa Downtown TOD Plan
is and shall remain in effect and the same is hereby made part of the 2022 Lake
Villa Official Comprehensive Plan. To the extent that the Lake Villa Downtown
TOD Plan is inconsistent with the 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan,
the provisions of the 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan and 2022
Official Land Use Map which is part thereof shall prevail and control. (Ord.
2022-01-03, 1-4-2022)
9-1-4: LAKE VILLA DOWNTOWN VISION PLAN:
The 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan and the 2022 Official Land Use
Map, which is part thereof, are hereby amended by the incorporation therein as
Appendix A the Lake Villa Downtown Vision Plan dated February 10, 2025 prepared
by Better City, LLC and Teska Associates, which was approved and adopted by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village by Ordinance No. 2025-02-01 (the “Downtown
Vision Plan”), and said Downtown Vision Plan is and shall remain in effect and
the same is hereby made part of the 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive
Plan. To the extent that the Lake Villa Downtown Vision Plan is inconsistent
with the 2022 Lake Villa Official Comprehensive Plan, the provisions of the
Downtown Vision Plan, which is part thereof, shall prevail and control. (Ord.
2025-02-01, 2-18-2025)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSES AND AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-1-1: Purposes
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-1: PURPOSES:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
To promote and protect the health, safety, comfort, morals, welfare,
convenience, and necessity of the public;
To secure adequate light, pure air, privacy, and convenience of access to
property;
To divide the incorporated area of the village into zones, prescribing and
regulating therein the location, erection, reconstruction, alteration, and use
of buildings, structures, and land for residential, business, manufacturing,
and other specific uses;
To fix reasonable standards to which the buildings and structures shall
conform; and provide that alterations or remodeling of existing buildings or
structures be conducted in accordance with current standards as set forth
herein;
To regulate and limit the intensity of use of land;
To protect the physical and mental health of the public by reducing or abating
objectionable smoke, noise, or other objectionable materials or influences
wherever possible;
To protect against fire, explosions, noxious fumes, and other dangers;
To avoid or lessen congestion in the public streets;
To establish setback lines along streets, trafficways, drives, parkways, and
storm and flood water runoff channels or basins, and to regulate the location
of structures relative to such lines;
To otherwise avoid or lessen the hazards to persons or damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of storm and flood water;
To prevent the overcrowding of land and the undue concentration of structures
by regulating and limiting the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the
land surrounding them;
To protect the character and maintain the stability of residential, business,
and industrial areas within the village;
To prohibit uses or structures which are incomparable with the character of
other appropriate existing or intended development within zoning districts;
To provide for the gradual elimination of those existing uses of land,
buildings, and structures, and those buildings and structures that do not
conform to the standards of the zone in which they are located;
To conserve and enhance the taxable value of land and buildings;
To promote the orderly development of Lake Villa;
To facilitate the more efficient use of existing utilities, and make sure more
feasible the development of sewer and water extensions;
To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies as provided herein. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance shall apply to all structures, land, and uses within the
village of Lake Villa. All structures and land uses constructed or commenced
hereafter and all enlargements of, additions to, changes in and relocations of
existing structures and uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to this
title, all statutes of the state of Illinois, and all other village ordinances.
Whenever a permit, certificate, or approval is established or required by this
title for any use or structure, such permit, certificate or approval shall not
be issued for any property, which has been divided in contravention of the
village ordinances or the plat act. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Word Usage
10-2-2: Definitions And Abbreviations
10-2-1: WORD USAGE:
In the interpretation of this title, the provisions and rules of this section
shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly requires
otherwise:
   A.   Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other tenses
and derivative forms.
   B.   Words in the singular number shall include the plural number, and words
in the plural number shall include the singular number.
   C.   The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine
gender shall include the masculine.
   D.   The word "shall" is mandatory.
   E.   The word "may" is permissive.
   F.   The word "person" includes individuals, firms, corporations,
associations, trusts, and any other similar entities.
   G.   The words "Lake Villa" mean Lake Villa, Illinois.
   H.   The words "Lake Villa Board" mean the Board of Trustees of Lake Villa.
   I.   The words "Planning Commission" shall mean the Lake Villa Planning
Commission.
   J.   The words "Recorder" and "Recorder of Deeds" shall mean the Lake County
Recorder of Deeds. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
For the purposes of this title and in order to carry out its provisions and
intentions, certain words, terms, and phrases shall be deemed to have the
meaning ascribed to them in this chapter.
The words "used" as applied to any land or structure shall be construed to
include "arranged", "designed", "maintained", "occupied", and "intended".
The following words, terms, and phrases are hereby defined and shall be
interpreted as such throughout this title.
ABUTTING: Having a common border with, or being separated from such common
border by, an alley or easement.
ACCESS: A means of vehicular entry to or exit from property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: See definition of "building, accessory".
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: See definition of "structure, accessory".
ACRE: Forty three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
ADEQUATE DOWNSTREAM STORMWATER CAPACITY: A stormwater management facility shall
be considered to have adequate downstream stormwater capacity if the facility
can be shown to accommodate up to and including 100-year stormwater runoff
without increasing property damage to the adjacent property or to a point
downstream known to be restriction causing backwater.
ADULT RESPITE CARE CENTER: Any person, group of persons, agency, association or
organization, whether established for gain or otherwise, who or which receives
or arranges for the care of adults which include related or unrelated adults
(persons 18 years of age or older). The term "adult respite care center" or
"adult respite care facility" includes facilities commonly referred to by name
or by operation as "adult respite care facilities", "adult respite care
centers", and "adult respite care homes", but does not include any group homes
or any center or facility with overnight accommodations for such adults, other
than for caregiver(s) and/or the caregiver's family.
ADULT USE CANNABIS: Cannabis which is sold, purchased, possessed, and used in
compliance with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
ADULT USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT(S): A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, dispensing organization, and/or transporting
organization as those terms are defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
as said Act may be amended from time to time, and which are or may be licensed
and/or otherwise regulated pursuant to said Act.
ADULT USE CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or business that
is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture pursuant to the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis
and perform other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a
dispensing organization or use at a processing organization.
ADULT USE CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to cultivate, process,
transport (unless otherwise limited by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act),
and perform other necessary activities to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused
products to cannabis business establishments as defined in the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, as said Act may be amended from time to time.
ADULT USE DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to
acquire cannabis from a cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, or another dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related
supplies as defined in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as said Act may be
amended from time to time.
ADULT USE INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department
of Agriculture pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to directly
incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
produce a cannabis-infused product.
ADULT USE PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department
of Agriculture pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to either
extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce cannabis concentrate or
incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product formulation to
produce a cannabis product.
ADULT USE TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or business
that is or may be licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture pursuant
to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act to transport cannabis on behalf of an
adult use cannabis business establishment or a community college that is or may
be licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
Program pursuant to said Act.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the growing of crops or plant growth of
any kind, including forestry; the maintenance of nonretail greenhouses and
nurseries; the raising of livestock, poultry, and customary farm animals for
the purpose of farming, providing that such activity is incidental to and
subordinate to the tilling of the soil; and the incidental structures for
carrying out the above.
AIRCRAFT: Any machine or device, including, but not limited to, airplanes,
helicopters, gliders, hang gliders, ultralights, autogiros, dirigibles, and hot
air balloons, capable of atmospheric flight.
AIRPORT: Any area of land, water, or both which is used or designed for the
landing or taking off of aircraft of any type, or for the location of runways,
landing areas, airdomes, hangars, structures, airport runways, grass runways,
and other facilities constituting an advantage or convenience to the safe
landing, takeoff, and navigation of aircraft, or the safe and efficient
maintenance thereof, whether or not facilities are provided for the shelter,
servicing and repair of aircraft or for receiving or discharging passengers or
cargo and whether or not such areas and facilities are public or are restricted
to private use.
ALLEY: A public right-of-way. A minor traffic facility which is used primarily
for vehicular access to the back or side of properties abutting upon and having
access to another traffic facility.
AMUSEMENT PARK: An area of land, including the structures thereon, which is
devoted to a commercial enterprise open to the public, which provides to
patrons multiple amusement attractions and/or amusement rides (as defined by
State Statute).
APARTMENT: A building containing more than one apartment or dwelling unit,
having an entrance to a common hallway or balcony.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or governmental agency who owns property or the
duly appointed representative and wishes to develop that property and one who
executes the necessary forms to procure permit to carry out such development
from the appropriate agency.
APPROPRIATE USE: Permissible development within the regulated floodway that
will be considered for permit issuance.
AUTO BODY REPAIRS AND RESTORATION: The reconstruction, repair, restoration, or
painting of damaged or incomplete vehicles, which includes an "auto body shop".
AVERAGE GROUND ELEVATION: The average level of the finished surface of the
ground adjacent to the exterior walls of a building or structure.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation delineating the level of flooding
resulting from the 100-year flood frequency elevation.
BASIN PLAN: A study and evaluation of an individual drainage basin's stormwater
management and flood control needs.
BASINS: The facilities which provide temporary or permanent impoundments of
water for flood control and other water resource purposes.
BOATHOUSE: A structure erected for the purpose of storing boats on an earthen
floor or over a water slip.
BUFFER YARD: An area of land, together with a specified amount of landscape
materials thereon, which may be required between land uses to eliminate or
mitigate adverse impacts. Refer to subsection 10-4-6G of this title.
BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT: That portion of a lot bounded by the required rear and
side yards and the building setback line exclusive of any area which falls in a
designated floodplain.
BUILDING: Any structure built or maintained for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building located on the same lot with the
main or principal building, occupied by, or devoted to, an accessory use. When
an accessory building is attached to the main or principal building in a
substantial manner, as by a wall or roof, such accessory building shall be
considered part of the main building. Accessory buildings shall include, but
are not limited to, detached garages and sheds.
BUILDING LINE: A line on a lot, parallel to a lot line or street right-of-way
line at sufficient distance to provide the required yards, delimiting the area
in which structures are permitted subject to the provisions of this title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted, or in which is intended
to be conducted, the main or principal use of the lot on which it is located.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A building line establishing the minimum allowable
distance between a street right-of-way line and any structure.
CABIN OR COTTAGE: A dwelling unit designed for temporary seasonal occupancy.
CALIPER: A measurement of the size of a tree equal to the diameter of its trunk
measured six inches (6") above natural grade for trees having calipers less
than or equal to six inches (6") diameter; and measured twelve inches (12")
above grade for tree calipers greater than six inches (6") diameter.
CAMP: Any land, including structures, used for assembly or temporary occupancy
by individuals and providing outdoor recreational facilities.
CAMP, COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL: A camp operated as a commercial enterprise.
Commercial recreation camps may provide facilities (cabins, camper bays, tent
sites) for the overnight accommodation of guests. In no instance shall a
commercial recreation camp provide permanent residential locations.
CAMP, DAY: A camp not providing overnight accommodations.
CAMP, YOUTH: A camp providing overnight camping facilities for groups of young
people, such as YMCA camps, Boy Scout camps, and Girl Scout camps.
CANNABIS REGULATION AND TAX ACT: Illinois Public Act 101-027 as said Act may be
amended from time to time.
CEMETERY: Any land, and the structures thereon, designed, used or intended to
be used for the interment or cremation of human remains.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two (2) bodies of water. It has a definite bed and banks which
serve to confine the water.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any person, group of persons, agency, association or
organization, whether established for gain or otherwise, who or which receives
or arranges for the care of children under eighteen (18) years of age, which
include related or unrelated children, in addition to the caregiver's own
children. The term "childcare center" or "childcare facility" includes
facilities commonly referred to by operation as "child daycare facilities",
"child daycare centers", "child daycare homes", "child day nurseries", "nursery
schools", and "kindergartens", but does not include any State operated
institution for childcare, any juvenile detention home, licensed nursing home,
or a boarding school or any group homes for children, or any center or facility
with overnight accommodations for the caregiver and/or the caregiver's family.
CLEAN FILL: Earth, sand, gravel or rock that contains no sludge, construction
waste or debris, composted materials, yard waste, municipal, hazardous or toxic
waste materials.
CLUB, COUNTRY: See definition of Country Club.
CLUB, OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL: An organization catering primarily to its
membership providing outdoor recreation but no principal building.
CLUB, PRIVATE, INDOOR: An organization catering exclusively to members and
their guests, or premises and buildings for recreational or athletic purposes
which are not conducted primarily for gain; provided that any vending stands,
merchandising, or commercial activities are conducted only as required
generally for the membership of such club.
CLUB, PRIVATE, OUTDOOR: An organization catering exclusively to members and
their guests, or premises and buildings for recreational or athletic purposes
which are not conducted primarily for gain; the outdoor recreational uses may
include, but are not limited to, athletic fields, tennis courts, playgrounds,
and areas for picnicking.
CLUSTER, SINGLE-FAMILY, OR CLUSTER SUBDIVISION: A single-family, detached
subdivision consisting of three (3) or more residential lots in which the
individual lots are clustered, grouped or arranged so as to achieve a more
flexible overall design for the purpose of providing more usable open space and
protecting sensitive natural areas and features.
COMMERCIAL: Any organization or corporation or group of individuals or
individual who operates an establishment having financial profit as an
objective.
COMMERCIAL CENTER: A group of four (4) or more commercial establishments, and/
or two (2) or more commercial structures located on a zoning lot, which are
planned, developed and managed as a unit. Commercial centers include shopping
centers and malls, office parks, industrial parks, and related uses.
COMMON OWNERSHIP: The ownership of two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots
and portions of lots with contiguous frontage.
COMMUNITY RECYCLING CENTER: An industrial use located and operated primarily
for the convenience of residents of a community and devoted to the collection
of glass, paper and/or nonferrous metals for eventual reprocessing and
recycling into new products.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An excavated, hydraulically equivalent volume of storage
used to offset the loss of natural flood storage capacity when artificial fill
or structures are placed within a floodplain.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE, HYDRAULICALLY EQUIVALENT: Compensatory storage placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation is
replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All storage lost above the
existing 10-year flood elevation is replaced above the proposed 10-year flood
elevation.
COMPOSTING: The biological treatment process by which microorganisms decompose
the organic fraction of waste, producing compost.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: All plans for the orderly development of Lake Villa
including all accompanying maps, charts, and explanatory material adopted by
Lake Villa board, and all amendments thereto.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL REGULATORY FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Reconstruction approval by
IDOT/DWR and the federal emergency management agency of a proposed change to
the floodway map. This reconstruction approval, pursuant to this title, gives
assurances to the property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed
according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously
agreed, upon review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that the
federal emergency management agency will revise base flood elevations, flood
insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodway as shown on an affected
flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map, once the as built plans
are submitted and approved.
CONDUIT: A general term for any channel, watercourse, sewer or culvert used for
the conveyance or movement of water, whether open or closed.
CONSERVATION CLUB: A group, chartered by the state of Illinois, for the
conservation of wildlife, land or natural resources.
CONSERVATION DISTRICT: Soil and water conservation district of Lake County.
CONTRACTOR: Any person or firm engaged in construction, landscaping and/or
landscape maintenance on a contract basis.
CONTROL, HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL GROUND: A system of photo identifiable points
with established positions or elevations, or both, which are used as fixed
references in positioning and correlating map features.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION: See definition of Subdivision, Conventional.
CORRAL: An enclosed area not exceeding one acre in size to be used for the
temporary holding of riding animals.
COUNTRY CLUB: An organization catering primarily to its membership which
includes, but is not limited to, outdoor and indoor recreation facilities and a
clubhouse. A cocktail lounge, dining facilities, game rooms and outdoor game
courts are permitted only if a conditional use permit for recreational
accessory uses is obtained.
CUTOFF: The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light source, or
luminaries are completely eliminated (cutoff) at a specific angle above the
ground.
CUTOFF ANGLE: The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction of light rays
at the light line perpendicular to the ground from the light source, above
which no light is emitted. See following illustration:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1802.gif]
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DAMAGE, STORMWATER: Measurable rise in flood heights on buildings currently
subject to flooding, flooding and increases in volume or velocity to the point
where the rate of land lost to erosion and scour is substantially increased.
DAYCARE FACILITY: See definition of Adult Respite Care Center.
DEPRESSIONAL STORAGE AREAS: Nonriverine depression in the earth where
stormwater collects.
DESIGN STORM: A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability of
occurring once within a given number of years, for which stormwater or flood
control improvements are designed and built.
DETENTION FACILITY: A manmade structure for the temporary storage of stormwater
runoff with controlled release during or immediately following a storm.
DETENTION STORAGE: The temporary detaining or storage of stormwater in
reservoirs, on rooftops or other areas under predetermined and controlled
conditions, with a controlled rate of discharge therefrom.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner of a lot or parcel of any land
proposed for inclusion in a development, including the holder of an option or
contract to purchase.
DEVELOPMENT: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any buildings; any use or change in the use of any buildings or
land; any extension of any use of land or any clearing, grading, or other
movement of land, for which permission may be required pursuant to this title.
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment that substantially
limits one or more of a person's major life activities, impairs their ability
to live independently, or a record of having such impairment.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (dbh): A measurement of the size of a tree equal to
the diameter of its trunk measured four and one- half feet (41/2') above
natural grade.
DIRECT DISCHARGE: Discharges of stormwater which have not passed through a
detention or retention facility designed to the specification of this title.
DISCHARGE: The outflow of water, silt or other mobile substances passing along
a conduit, watercourse, or a channel or released from detention storage.
DRAINAGE: The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading, or other means. Drainage includes the control of runoff to minimize
erosion and sedimentation during and after development and includes the means
necessary for water supply preservation or prevention or alleviation of
flooding.
DRAINAGE AREA: The area contributing runoff water to a watercourse, drainage
system or detention basin. Also, commonly referred to as a watershed.
DRAINAGE BASIN: Subwatershed as indicated in the Lake County comprehensive
stormwater management plan.
DRAINAGEWAY: A watercourse identified by the presence of a 5.1 intermittent or
perennial flow.
DRAINAGEWAY, FIRST ORDER: The land within ten feet (10') on either side of the
centerline of any intermittent or perennial stream which has no upstream
tributaries. These constitute the most upstream segments of any natural
drainage system.
DRAINAGEWAY, SECOND ORDER: The land within thirty feet (30') on either side of
the centerline of any intermittent or perennial stream which is formed by the
combination of two (2) or more second order drainageways.
DRAINAGEWAY SOILS: An area of the following seasonally saturated soil types as
identified by the soil survey: harpster silty clay loam (67), houghton peter
(W97), houghton muck (103, W103), sawmill silty clay loam (107), pella silty
clay loam (330, W330), montgomery silty clay (465), granby loamy fine sand
(513) or marsh (MA).
DRAINAGEWAY, THIRD ORDER: The land within sixty five feet (65') on either side
of any intermittent or perennial stream formed by the combination of two (2) or
more second order drainageways.
DRIP LINE: The perimeter of the circular area surrounding the trunk of a tree
radius from the trunk for one inch (1") of diameter at breast height.
DRIVE-UP FACILITY: A use conducting all or part of its activity to customers
through a drive-up window, station or other point of vehicular access. Such
uses include, but are not limited to: drive-up restaurants, drive-in
restaurants, drive-up banking facilities, drive-up cleaners, and drive-up
photofinishers.
DRY DETENTION FACILITY: A detention facility designed to drain completely after
temporary storage of stormwater flows and to normally be dry over the majority
of its bottom area.
DUPLEX: A dwelling type consisting of two (2) dwelling units attached side by
side under one roof.
DWELLING: A building exclusive of mobile homes, recreational vehicles, hotels
or motels as herein defined, containing as principal use one or more dwelling
units.
DWELLING GROUP: A building, exclusive of mobile homes, recreational vehicles,
hotels or motels as herein defined, providing as a minimum, living, sleeping
and toilet facilities for more than three (3) persons not comprising a family.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units, each with
completely separate entrances.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms, providing living quarters for not more
than one family.
DWELLING UNIT, ATTACHED: A dwelling unit in a building having a principal use
other than as a residence.
EASEMENT: A right afforded a person to make limited use of another's real
property, as the right of way.
ELDERLY HOUSING: A residential facility in which each dwelling unit is occupied
only by individuals who are sixty two (62) years of age or older, and/or by
individuals who are fifty five (55) years of age or older who are residing in
the same dwelling unit with another individual who is sixty two (62) years of
age or older, and in which other uses, subordinate and directly related to the
primary use (such as social, dining, recreational, exercise, medical, health,
the sale of convenience items or other uses or services) are provided. All
residents must be capable of maintaining a private independent residence.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify the elevation to which a building has been
elevated.
ENGINEER OF RECORD: An engineer that designed and certified the final
engineering plans or the engineer responsible for the design of engineering
improvements in the subdivision and certifies those improvements.
ENGINEER, REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL: An engineer registered in the state of
Illinois.
EQUINE: One horse, pony, mule or ass.
EROSION: The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water, wind,
ice and/or gravity.
EXCAVATION (OR EXCAVATION OF EARTH PRODUCTS): Any act by which organic matter,
earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar material is cut into, dug,
quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall
include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations.
FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit; or a group of
not more than three (3) persons, who need not be related by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, living together as a single housekeeping unit and occupying a
single dwelling unit; in either case, exclusive of usual domestic servants.
FARM ANIMALS: Any animal customarily raised on farms rather than in residential
areas including alpaca, llama, burros, cattle, bison, mink, chickens, turkeys,
ducks, geese, donkeys, emus, goats, horses, mules, ostriches, swine, sheep or
lambs.
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: The federal emergency management agency
and its regulations codified as 44 CFR 59-79 effective as of October 1, 1986.
This incorporation does not include any later editions or amendments.
FEE IN LIEU OF ON SITE DETENTION: A fee assessed to a permit applicant used to
contribute to the cost of the capital improvement component of basin plans;
such as, regional detention site(s) or improvements to downstream conveyances
"in lieu of" constructing on site detention.
FILL: Earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material which is deposited,
placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved by man to a new
location.
FILLING: The act of depositing fill on land, whether submerged or not.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD CONVEYANCE PATH: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, in which is needed to
convey the existing and anticipated future 100-year frequency flood discharge
with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by the federal emergency
management agency or HUD that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and floodplains and
may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The base flood elevation plus two feet (2') of
freeboard.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus two feet (2') of freeboard at any given location in the
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
FLOOD TABLE LAND: The land area contiguous to the floodplain, the elevation of
which is greater than the base flood elevation by two feet (2') or less.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: An overall program of corrective and preventive measures
for avoiding or reducing future flood damage.
FLOODPLAIN, NONRIVERINE: Floodplains not associated with streams, creeks or
rivers, such as isolated depressional storage areas, also known as inland
depressional floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN (REGULATORY): Floodplains may be either riverine or nonriverine
depressional areas. Riverine floodplains are those areas contiguous to a lake,
pond, or stream whose elevation is greater than the normal water pool elevation
but equal to or lower than the projected 100-year flood elevation. Nonriverine
floodplains are depressional storage areas not associated with a stream system
to which surrounding lands drain causing periodic inundation by stormwaters. In
certain cases, the floodplain may also be known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). A regulatory floodplain exists along any watercourse draining one
hundred (100) acres or more or any nonriverine areas with a surface area
greater than one-fourth (1/4) acre for the 100-year event.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures or property which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY): The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by the
Illinois department of transportation, division of water resources, which is
needed to store and convey the existing and anticipated future 100-year
frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to
the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%)
increase in velocities.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross floor area of the principal building for each
of the several stories under roof, measured from the exterior limits or faces
of a building or structure.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The floor area of a building or structure shall not
exceed the percent of the total area of the lot shown in section 10-3C-2, table
2, column 12 of this title.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of which
are one foot (1') from a uniform point source of one standard candle.
FOREST: Area containing mature woodlands and/or young woodlands.
FORESTRY: The clearing of forested or woodland areas (including mature
woodlands and young woodlands, as defined herein), provided however, that this
does not include: a) authorized clearing of trees in accordance with plans
approved pursuant to section 10-4-10 of this title; b) removal of diseased or
dead trees; and c) the removal of trees on lots of less than two (2) acres, or
less than twice the minimum lot size for the zone in which the lot is located,
whichever is less.
FREEBOARD: An increment of height added to the base flood elevation to provide
a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown local conditions,
wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice or debris
jams.
FRIABLE SOIL: Soil that easily crumbles in a dry state.
FRONTAGE: The distance measured along the front lot line.
FUNCTIONAL ASSESSMENT: Assessments of wetlands flood storage, water quality and
other beneficial functions.
GARAGE: A structure or part thereof, designed, used or intended to be used for
the parking and storage of motor vehicles.
GARDEN CENTER: A place of business where retail and wholesale products and
produce are sold to the consumer. These centers, which may include a nursery
and/or greenhouses, import most of the items sold, and may include plants,
nursery products and stock, fertilizers, potting soil, hardware, power
equipment and machinery, hoes, rakes, shovels, and other garden and farm
variety tools and utensils.
GEOTHERMAL ENERGY SYSTEM: A system which utilizes renewable energy generated
from the interior of the Earth and used to produce energy for heating buildings
or serving building commercial or industrial processes. A geothermal energy
system does not include systems that use energy independent of the geothermal
source to raise the temperature of the extracted heat, such as heat pumps.
GOLF COURSE: An area of land laid out for the game of golf with a series of
holes and including tees, greens, fairways and often one or more natural or
artificial hazards. A golf course may include snack shops on the course and may
include a clubhouse which may contain dining/banquet facilities, locker room
and shower facilities, a pro shop and/or a lounge. A golf practice range to the
golf course, provided that it is an integral part of the golf course, is not
lighted or operated other than daylight hours and is not operated at hours
other than those during which the golf course is open for play. The above
accessory uses require a conditional use permit.
GRADE: The average level of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building.
GREENHOUSE: An enclosed structure, permanent or portable, which is used for the
growth of small plants.
GREENHOUSE AND/OR NURSERY CENTER: An enterprise where the retail and wholesale
of plants grown on the site, as well as accessory items directly related to the
maintenance and care of plant life are sold. The accessory items normally sold
are clay pots, potting soil, fertilizers, insecticides, hanging baskets, rakes,
hoes, and shovels, etc. However, no power equipment, such as gas or electric
lawn mowers and farm implements, may be sold wholesale or retail.
GREENHOUSE NURSERY; SALES AND DISPLAY AREA: The facilities where display of and
retail sale of plants and materials are conducted on the premises.
GROUND AREA (LOT COVERAGE): That portion of a lot encompassed by the outside
perimeter of the building.
HALLWAY: A corridor, passageway, or hall in a house or building.
HEALTH-MEDICAL USE: Any hospital, general hospital, communicable disease
hospital, school or home for the mentally disturbed or retarded, school or home
for the physically handicapped, or shelter care home.
HEIGHT OF STRUCTURE: The vertical distance as measured from the average grade
to the highest point on such structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: A business, profession, or trade conducted for gain or support
and located entirely within a residential building.
HOSPITAL: A health-medical use devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and overnight care of
individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity or other
abnormal physical, mental or emotional conditions or afflictions.
HOSPITAL EMERGENCY HELIPORT: A facility constructed for the taking off and
landing of helicopters as a means of providing medical emergency transport.
Such a heliport shall be considered an accessory use to the hospital, shall be
used exclusively in connection with the hospital, and shall be subordinate to
the hospital in area, extent and purpose.
HOTEL: A building designed for transient occupancy containing rooms for suites
accessible from a common hall or entrance, providing living, sleeping, and
toilet facilities; a general kitchen and a dining room may be provided.
HOTEL SUITE: A room or group of rooms located in a hotel designed to
accommodate not more than one family.
HYDRIC SOIL: A soil that is saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop an anaerobic condition in the upper part.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis, which determines
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
HYDROLOGICALLY CONNECTED: A stormwater discharge that is tributary to a
channel, wetland, lake or pond and that has an overland flow path of less than
two hundred feet (200').
HYDROLOGICALLY DISTURBED: An area where the land surface has been modified to
increase runoff, volumes, rates, or directions.
HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION: Plant life growing in water, soil or on a substrate
that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of excess water
content.
IDOT/DWR: Illinois department of transportation, division of water resources
(also IDOT-DWR).
ILLUMINATION, MAXIMUM PERMITTED: The maximum illumination measured in foot-
candles at the interior line of the buffer yard at ground level.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Surfaces, which do not absorb water. For the purposes of
this title, they consist of all buildings, parking areas, driveways, roads,
sidewalks, and any areas of concrete, asphalt, gravel or compressed earth. In
the case of exterior storage areas, such as found in lumberyards, the areas
devoted to exterior storage and circulation in those areas shall also be
considered to be impervious surface.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE, ON LOT: The total amount of impervious surface, which is
present on a lot.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO (ISR): A measure of the intensity of land being
occupied by all aboveground structures which are governed by the building
setback requirements including inground swimming pools, driveways, sidewalks,
etc. See definition of Impervious Surface.
IMPROVEMENTS: Any manmade changes to any land or structure.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: See definition of Commercial Center.
INSTITUTIONAL MIXED USE: A combination of primary uses which may include
residential uses and school facilities and supporting medical, health, or
physical therapy services for residents and outpatients. The use shall be a
campus type integrated use, constructed and operated under single ownership and
control and governed by a unified plan. Limited retail and agriculture
facilities and operations may be permitted, which are clearly subordinate to
and closely associated with the primary uses of the institutional use.
JUNKYARD: Any land or structure, exclusive of recycling centers, used for
salvaging operation, including, among other things, the storage and sale of
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal, and discarded materials, or the dismantling,
storage, and salvaging of unlicensed, inoperable vehicles.
KENNEL: Any place in or at which any number of dogs are kept for the purpose of
sale or in connection with boarding, care, or breeding, for which any fee is
charged; or any place in or at which more than four (4) dogs over age four (4)
months are kept for any purpose.
LAKE: A natural or artificial body of water encompassing an area of two (2) or
more acres, which retains water year round.
LAND SURVEYOR (SURVEYOR): An Illinois registered land surveyor.
LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR: A business principally engaged in the decorative and
functional alteration, planting and maintenance of grounds. Such a business may
engage in the installation and construction of underground improvements but
only to the extent that such improvements (e.g., drainage facilities) are
accessory to the principal business and are necessary to support or sustain the
landscaped surface of the ground.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs, and other material accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING FACILITY: An establishment for the composting of
waste materials accumulated as a result of the care of lawns, shrubs, vines and
trees.
LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to generate utility power at a commercial scale.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM) or flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
LOT: A single parcel or tract of land.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by a vertical projection of
the property lines of a lot excluding any street, easement for street purposes,
or right of way.
LOT, BUILDABLE AREA OF: That portion of a lot bounded by a building line.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) streets at their juncture, when the
interior angle formed is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT, FRONT OF: That part of an interior lot abutting the street or that part of
a corner lot extending across the narrowest part of the lot abutting the
street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT, REAR OF: That part of a lot opposite of the front of the lot.
LOT, RECORDED: A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed, duly recorded
pursuant to statute in the county recorder's office. A recorded lot may or may
not coincide with a zoning lot.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot at the building setback line.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land composed of one or more recorded lots, occupied
or to be occupied by a principal building or buildings, or principal use or
uses, meeting all the requirements for area, buildable area, frontage, width,
yards, setbacks, and any other requirements set forth in this title.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit, consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical and decorative parts.
LUMINAIRE, CUTOFF TYPE: A luminaire with elements such as shields, reflectors,
or refractor panels, which direct and cut off the light at a cutoff angle that
is less than ninety degrees (90°).
MARINA: A boat basin and recreational facility, located on waterfront property,
providing moorings for boats, and one or more of the following facilities: boat
launching ramps, boat livery, boat sales, maintenance shops, marine supply
store, and fuel dock.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: For the purposes of these Zoning Regulations, the
respective definition of “massage establishment”, “massage”, “licensed massage
therapist”, and other related terms shall be as set forth in Section
3-7-1, “Definitions”, of Chapter 7, “Massage Establishments; Services”, of
Title 3 of the Lake Villa Village Code; and the exemptions from the provisions
of Chapter 7, “Massage Establishments; Services”, of Title 3, as set forth in
Section
3-7-2, “Exemptions”, shall likewise be the exemptions to these Zoning
Regulations.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A "cultivation center" as defined in the
"Illinois compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act".
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: As defined in the "Illinois
compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act".
MINIMUM FLOOR ELEVATION: The lowest elevation permissible for the construction,
erection, or other placement of any floor including a basement floor.
MITIGATION: Measures taken to eliminate or minimize damage from development
activities, such as construction in wetlands or floodplain filling, by
replacement of the resource or other means of compensation.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling used for long term occupancy, which is designed or
constructed so that it may be transported intact; notwithstanding the fact that
said dwelling is placed upon a foundation. A mobile home shall be permitted to
be located in a mobile home park only.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A subdivision containing mobile homes.
MODULAR/MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling manufactured off site, which complies
with the provisions of the one- and two-family dwelling code.
MOTEL: A building designed for transient occupancy containing rooms or suites
with separate entrances, providing living, sleeping, and toilet facilities.
MUSEUM OR ART GALLERY, COMMERCIAL: A privately owned facility, displaying
objects or processes primarily of an educational or cultural nature. Entrance
fees are normally collected. Incidental sales are normal, but are limited to
food and products directly related to the educational or cultural displays.
NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum of 1929.
NATURAL RESOURCES: Includes all areas of beaches, dunes, bluffs, lakes, ponds,
shorelines, wetlands, floodplains, drainageways, forests, steep slopes and
erosion hazard areas as herein defined.
NET BUILDABLE SITE AREA: The calculated area of the buildable portion of a lot.
NET METERING: An arrangement by which excess energy generated by a Renewable
Energy System is distributed back to the electrical utility grid.
NURSERY: A place where primarily plants, trees and shrubs are grown.
NURSERY SCHOOL: A school or other instructional facility for preschool or
kindergarten children that is not a part of an elementary school.
OPEN SPACE: Land which is required by this title to remain as undeveloped and
used for recreation, resource protection, or amenity purposes. Open space lands
shall be freely accessible to all residents of the development. Open space land
shall not be occupied by nonrecreational buildings, roads, road rights of way,
or parking areas for nonrecreational uses. Land located within the yards or
lots of residential and/or nonresidential properties is not considered open
space.
OPEN SPACE RATIO (OSR): The proportion of a site consisting of open space
calculated using the base site area.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The point on the bank or shore at which the presence
and movement of surface waters are continuous so as to leave a distinctive
mark, such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other such recognized characteristics.
OWNER: The person having the right of legal title or beneficial interest in or
a contractual right to purchase a parcel of land. For the purpose of providing
notices required by this title, the owner is the person who last paid taxes on
any parcel as identified by county property tax records.
PARCEL: Any legally described piece of land.
PARCEL IDENTIFICATION NUMBER: Permanent index number used to identify
properties for tax assessment.
PARK, COMMERCIAL: Any park or recreation area for which an admission fee is
charged.
PARK, COMMERCIAL RECREATION: A commercial enterprise providing passive and
informal active recreational opportunities (such as picnicking, hiking,
swimming, fishing, boating, and nonorganized athletics). Horseback riding or
the overnight accommodation of persons in any manner (see definition of Camp,
Commercial Recreational) shall not be considered commercial recreation uses.
PARK, COMMUNITY: Any park, public or private, created as a part of, or within
the area covered by, a village approved subdivision plat.
PARK, NONCOMMERCIAL: A park or recreation area that is open to the public and
for which no fee is charged.
PARK, PUBLIC: A recreational area that is open to the public free of charge.
PASTURE: An area of grass or other vegetative cover grown for the purpose of
grazing animals.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel,
watercourse, or conduit resulting from a specified storm or flood.
PERFORMANCE/MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE: A financial guarantee to ensure that all
improvements, facilities, or work required by this title will be completed or
maintained in compliance with this title.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private firm or corporation, the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, and the United States Of
America, its agencies and instrumentalities, and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
PHOTOGRAMMETRIST: A person engaged in making maps from aerial photographs.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A type of conditional use permit that allows for the
orderly and predictable modification of use and development standards that
apply to a site when such conditions are necessary to address the specific
circumstances presented by a site or proposed development.
POND: A natural or artificial body of water or less than two (2) acres which
retains water year round.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: The main building upon a lot, or the building, which houses
the principal use of the premises.
PRINCIPAL USE: The specific primary purpose for which land is used.
PRO SHOP: A room or building incidental to a principal recreational use which
may be devoted to the collection of fees or to the sale of recreational
equipment or other items or services directly related to the use involved.
PROPERTY LINE: A line bounding a parcel, which divides one parcel from another
such as represented on a plat of survey.
PUBLIC: A facility owned and operated by a public body.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project, which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing
buildings, structures, and property. The project includes a hydrologic and
hydraulic study of the existing and proposed conditions of the watershed.
Nothing in this definition shall preclude the design, engineering, construction
or financing, in whole or in part, of a flood control project by persons or
parties who are not public agencies.
PUBLIC ROAD DEVELOPMENT: Any development activity that takes place in a highway
right of way or part thereof that is administered and funded by a public agency
under its respective highway jurisdiction.
PUBLICLY DEDICATED ROAD RIGHT OF WAY: Any street which is dedicated for public
road purposes.
RECONSTRUCTION: The act of rebuilding a structure.
RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT: Articles or apparatus used in a pastime, diversion,
exercise, or other resource affording relaxation and enjoyment.
RECREATIONAL USE: Recreational facilities providing outdoor and/or indoor
recreation not specifically provided for in this title.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary occupancy for travel, recreation or vacation
uses. Travel trailer, motor home, camping trailer, and pickup coach are deemed
synonymous with recreational vehicle.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A parcel on which campsites are established for
occupancy by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living
quarters for purposes of recreation or vacation.
RELIGIOUS RETREAT: A place of group withdrawal for prayer, meditation, study
and instruction under a director.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that generates energy from natural resources
such as sunlight, wind, and geothermal heat. As used herein, the term
"Renewable Energy System" refers to large wind energy systems, small wind
energy systems, geothermal energy systems, and solar energy systems only.
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Activities which do not result in any
increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
RESIDENCE, CARETAKER'S: A dwelling unit located on the same parcel as a
nonresidential principal use and occupied exclusively by either the owner,
manager, caretaker, or operator, and his family, of a permitted principal use.
RESORT: A recreation facility providing overnight accommodations for not more
than fifty (50) persons, including dining facilities, lounge, and outdoor
recreation facilities designed to accommodate not more than the number of
persons for which overnight accommodations are provided.
RESTAURANT, CAFETERIA: A food service facility whose principal business is the
cooking or preparation of food and beverages which are served to patrons in a
ready to consume state for consumption on the premises.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: An establishment whose principal business is the sales
of food and/or beverages in a ready to consume state for consumption: a) within
the restaurant building, b) within a motor vehicle on the premises, or c) off
the premises as carryout orders, and whose principal method of operation is
characterized by the service of food and/or beverages in disposable or edible
containers.
RESTAURANT, STANDARD: An establishment whose principal business is the sale of
food and/or beverages to consumers in a ready to consume state, and whose
principal method of operation includes one or both of the following
characteristics: a) customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are
served their foods and beverages by a restaurant employee at the same table or
counter at which food and beverages are consumed; and/or b) a cafeteria type
operation where food and beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant
building.
RESTRICTIVE, MORE: A regulation imposed by this title is more restrictive than
another if it prohibits or limits development to a greater extent or by means
of more detailed specifications.
RETENTION FACILITY: A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount
of stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration or pumping.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a stream (including creeks and
rivers).
SCHOOL: A place or institution whose principal use is for the instruction of
persons.
SCHOOL, BUSINESS: A school, which principally offers specific courses of
instruction in business related skills.
SCHOOL, FINE ARTS: A school, which principally offers courses of instruction in
the fine arts of music, graphic arts and dance.
SCHOOL, GENERAL EDUCATION: A school that principally offers a broad range of
general academic instruction.
SCHOOL, INDUSTRIAL: A school that principally offers specific courses of
instruction in industry related skill.
SCHOOL, NURSERY: See definition of Childcare Facility.
SCHOOL, RESIDENTIAL: A school, which provides on site residential facilities.
Such a school shall conform to all federal, state, and local standards and
regulations as would be applicable to a public school similarly operated.
SHELTERED CARE: Maintenance and personal care, exclusive of nursing, for
persons incapable of maintaining a private independent residence.
SHELTERED CARE HOME: A private boarding home, institution, building, residence,
or other place, which, through its ownership or management, provides sheltered
care to three (3) or more adults who are not related by blood or marriage to
the applicant or owner of the property on which said use is located.
SHORE BUFFER: The area located between the shoreline of a lake and a line
located one hundred feet (100') inland and parallel to that shoreline.
SHORELINE: The edge of land surrounding a lake. The elevation of the shoreline
shall be the highest elevation determined by: a) the observed stage elevation
shown on either the USGS flood of record maps or the IDOT floodplain
topographic maps, or b) one foot (1') above the maximum discharge elevation of
an outlet control structure which controls the water elevation of the lake, or
c) the top of any natural bank surrounding a natural lake which has an outlet
control structure.
SIGNS: See sign regulations.
SITE DEVELOPMENT: Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by Lake Villa building and zoning
department for the alteration or construction of ground improvements and
structures for the control of erosion, runoff, and grading.
SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A plan prepared by an engineer that shows the method,
control and implementation of erosion control measures, stormwater runoff, and/
or grading of lands for the construction of building(s) and other necessary
improvements.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to reduce on-site consumption of utility power. All
small wind energy systems, whether ground-mounted or building-mounted, are
prohibited in all of the Village's zoning districts, except within the CB, SB,
LI, or LI-2 Zoning Districts where each shall require specific authorization by
a conditional use permit approved by Village ordinance.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED: A small wind energy system that is
not attached to another structure and is affixed to the ground, or that is
attached to an antenna, light pole or other utility facility.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING-MOUNTED: A small wind energy system affixed
to a building or other principal structure.
SOIL SURVEY: A publication entitled "Soil Survey, Lake County, Illinois"
prepared by the United States department of agriculture, soil conservation
service, issued September 1970.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute, and/or store energy for on-site consumption of utility power within
a principal or accessory structure.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING - MOUNTED: A solar energy system affixed to
either the principal or accessory structure. A building-mounted solar energy
system shall be a permitted use within any zoning district of the Village.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND - MOUNTED: A solar energy system that is not
attached to another structure and is affixed to the ground, or that is attached
to an antenna, light pole or other utility facility. A ground-mounted solar
energy system shall not be permitted by right in any zoning district of the
Village, but may be authorized by a conditional use in the AG, LI, or LI-
2 Zoning Districts of the Village.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, stream, or any other identified channel or ponding and shown on
a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map as zone A, AO, A1-30,
AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, or E.
STABLE, COMMERCIAL: A building or land where equine are kept for remuneration,
hire, sale, boarding, riding or show.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A building incidental to an existing principal use, which
provides shelter for equine for the exclusive use of the occupants of the
premises.
STAFF DOCTOR: A doctor employed by a hospital, clinic, or other institution, or
a doctor who is "on call" to such institution during certain specified periods
of time in case of emergency or other need.
STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS: The "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions"
or its successor document or documents, as adopted by the Illinois department
of transportation, in effect at the time a preliminary plat is approved. The
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" or
its successor document or documents, as adopted by the Illinois environmental
protection agency in effect at the time a preliminary plat is approved.
STEEP SLOPE: An area of land having a slope of at least ten percent (10%) over
an area of five thousand (5,000) square feet and a vertical drop of at least
ten feet (10'). Where there are several contiguous slope categories that
collectively meet in the area requirement but do not do so individually, the
average slope shall be used to determine the category.
STOCKPILE, TEMPORARY SOIL: A mass or mound of soil, typically topsoil that has
been stripped.
STORM, 100-YEAR: Rainstorm of varying durations and intensities expected to
recur on the average of once every one hundred (100) years or statistically
having a one percent (1%) chance of occurring in any single year. A duration of
twenty four (24) hours is assumed unless otherwise noted.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conducting stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITY: Any element in a stormwater drainage system,
which is made or improved by man.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All facilities used for conducting stormwater to,
through or from a drainage area to the point of final outlet.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT: A set of actions taken to control stormwater runoff with
the objectives of providing controlled surface drainage, flood control and
pollutant reduction in runoff.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT COMMISSION (SMC): The Lake County stormwater management
commission establishing and existing under 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-
1062 for the purposes of developing, revising and implementing a countywide
stormwater management plan.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: A collection of natural features and manmade
facilities, which define the stormwater management for a development.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within
a tributary drainage basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected
in channels, watercourses or conduits.
STORMWATER RUNOFF, EXCESS: The volume and rate of flow of stormwater discharged
for a developed drainage area which is or will be in excess of that volume and
rate which existed before development.
STORMWATER RUNOFF, 100-YEAR: The stormwater runoffs from the 100-year storm.
STORY: That portion of a building or structure included between the surface of
any floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a story if
the floor next above it is more than five feet (5') above the average ground
elevation.
STORY, HALF: The portion of a building or structure under only gable, hip, or
gambrel roofs, the wall plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior
walls are not more than two feet (2') above the floor.
STREAM: A course of running water flowing in a channel.
STREET: A place or way, however designated, for vehicular travel, which affords
principal means of access to abutting property.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from a minor street to a
major street.
STREET, MAJOR: A street, except an expressway or a limited access highway,
serving as a traffic artery for communication between areas of concentrated
development.
STREET, MINOR: A street in a residential area used primarily for access to
abutting properties.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, erected, or placed, which requires location in
or on the ground or is attached to something having a location on the ground.
STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on
the ground which contributes to and is subordinate and secondary to the
principal building and use of a property. An "accessory building" is one type
of accessory structure. Accessory structures may include, but are not limited
to, dumpsters, trash enclosures, permanent generators, playground equipment,
and outdoor fireplaces.
SUBDIVISION, CONVENTIONAL: A single-family, detached subdivision consisting of
residential lots meeting all of the requirements of section 10-3C-2, table 2,
"Lot Areas, Yard And Bulk Regulations", of this title site capacity
calculation, and resource protection open space standards which typically
account for all or most of the property area (except rights-of-way and
outlots).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: a) before the improvements or repair is
started, or b) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to comply with existing State or local Health, Sanitary, or Safety
Code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions, or b) any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register
of Historical Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
SWALE: A linear depression in the ground surface which conveys drainage water
with side slopes at or less steep than a 3H:1V slope.
TATTOO STUDIO: An establishment, also called a “tattoo shop,” and/or “tattoo
parlor,” in which the principal business or activity is providing of tattoos or
tattooing. The term “tattooing” also includes a permanent and semi-permanent
make-up, cosmetic tattooing, and microblading. A tattoo is a form of body
modification where a design is made by inserting ink, dyes and pigments, either
indelible or temporary, into the dermis layer of the skin to change the
pigment.
TAVERN: An establishment in which the principal business is the sale of
alcoholic beverages to patrons for consumption on the premises. A liquor
license from the Liquor Commissioner of the Village is required. (A tavern is
sometimes also referred to as a "bar", or as a "cocktail lounge", or as a
"nightclub".)
TECHNICAL REFERENCE MANUAL (TRM): The "Lake County Stormwater Management
Commission Technical Reference Manual". This manual contains design guidance
for a development site to meet the watershed development ordinance performance
standards.
TEMPORARY SALES: The sale of flowers, food, novelties and other merchandise on
a temporary basis not to exceed three (3) days in a week.
TERMINAL, TRUCK: A structure or land primarily used for the temporary storage
of goods awaiting transfer or wholesale distribution by means of motor carrier
transportation.
TOP DRESSING: The placement of not more than four inches (4") of topsoil within
the regulatory floodplain for the purposes of preventing soil erosion and
establishing vegetative cover.
TOTAL SYSTEMS HEIGHT: The total height of the tower and the wind turbine of a
small wind energy system, as measured from the average grade at the base of the
system to the top of the blade or rotor.
TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling containing more than two (2) dwelling units, each having
a completely separate entrance at ground level.
TRAFFIC CONTROL MANUAL: The "Illinois Manual for Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways", as published by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
TRAFFIC ENGINEER: A state of Illinois registered professional engineer whose
primary work experience has been in traffic engineering.
TRAFFIC FACILITY: Any public or private right of way used for or intended to be
used for travel including, but not limited to, an expressway, highway,
arterial, street, road, thoroughfare, avenue, lane, place or alley.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
TRAUMA CENTER: A facility devoted primarily to the diagnosis and treatment of
individuals suffering from injury or medical emergency.
USE: The purpose or activity for which land, or any structure thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use which: a) is subordinate to and services a principal
building or principal use legally existing on the same zoning lot; b) is
subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal building or principal
use; c) contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the occupants,
business or industry of the principal structure or principal use served; and d)
is located on the same zoning lot as the principal structure or principal use
served.
USE, HEALTH-MEDICAL: Any hospital, general hospital, communicable disease
hospital, school or home for the mentally disturbed or retarded, school or home
for the physically handicapped, or sheltered care home.
USE, INDUSTRIAL: A use, which is primarily involved in the commercial
manufacture of products. Industrial uses include any function primarily
involved in assembly, cleaning, compounding, fabricating, manufacturing,
mixing, packaging, processing, or production, which results in material output
or storing or testing of a product.
USE, INSTITUTIONAL: A use of land employed by public or quasi- public
organizations, which provides services to the public, which individuals cannot
readily provide for themselves.
USE, OFFICE: A building or portion thereof where services, clerical work,
professional duties and related activities are carried out. Services offered
are on an individual to individual basis as opposed to services performed on
objects or personal property. Office uses include, but are not limited to,
barber and beauty shops, brokerage offices, insurance offices, professional
offices (i.e., accountants, lawyers, etc.), medical and dental offices or
clinics, real estate offices, ticket offices, and travel agencies.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The specific primary purpose for which land is used.
USE, RECREATIONAL: A facility providing for outdoor and/or indoor recreation.
Outdoor recreational uses involve no building in excess of one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet of total floor area and may include, but are not
limited to, athletic fields, campgrounds, swimming pools, tennis courts,
playgrounds, boat launching ramps, marinas, other areas for picnicking, jogging
or cycling, riding trails, ice or roller skating rinks, tot lots, golf driving
ranges, archery or firing ranges, parks. Indoor activities include, but are not
limited to, bowling alleys, swimming pools, theaters (movie and stage), private
clubs, ice or roller skating rinks, racquetball or handball courts, amusement
parks, archery or firing ranges, gymnasiums, resorts, stadiums, cabins or
cottages (rental) and dance halls.
USE, RESIDENTIAL: A use of land, which provides space for the permanent
occupancy of either individuals or families within dwellings. Residential uses
include, but are not limited to, single-family dwelling, duplexes, townhouses,
apartments, group dwellings and boarding houses.
USE, RETAIL SALES AND/OR SERVICE: A use of land devoted to business operations
involved in the retail sale of goods and material commodities to the ultimate
consumer and may include the servicing of objects and/or goods so sold, either
at the same location or at a location where such servicing is the primary use.
Retail sales and/or service uses include, but are not limited to, camera shops,
clothing stores, department stores, drugstores, furniture stores, funeral
homes, garden centers, grocery stores and supermarkets, gasoline service
stations, hardware stores, home appliance stores, hotels and motels, jewelry
stores, kennels, veterinary clinics, lawn mower repair shops, laundries and dry
cleaners, liquor stores, pawnshops, retail bakeries, restaurants, shopping
centers, taverns and lounges, toy stores, tobacco stores, upholstery shops, and
vehicle sales, supplies and services.
USE, TEMPORARY: A use established for a fixed period of time with the intent to
discontinue the use upon the expiration of the time.
WAREHOUSE, MINI: A building or group of buildings that contains varying sizes
of individual, compartmentalized, and controlled access stalls or lockers for
the dead storage of a customer's goods or wares. No sales, service or repair
activities other than the rental of dead storage units are permitted on the
premises.
WATER DEPENDENT: Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline. Examples of water dependent uses include,
but are not limited to, pumping facilities, wastewater treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating or commercial
shipping.
WATERCOURSE: Any natural or manmade depression into which water flows either
regularly or intermittently.
WATERSHED: The land area above a given point on a watercourse that contributes
stormwater to that point.
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit established by this title and issued,
through the SMC or certified communities, prior to the approval of a building
permit signifying conformance with provisions of this title.
WATERWAY: A body of water, such as a lake, pond, continuously flowing stream,
creek, river, channel, or canal.
WEEKEND: Saturday and Sunday. National holidays observed on a Friday or Monday
may be included.
WET DETENTION FACILITY: A wet detention facility designed to maintain a
permanent pool of water after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
WETLAND: Land that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, under normal conditions, a
prevalence of vegetation adapted for life in saturated soil conditions (known
as hydrophytic vegetation). A wetland is identified based upon the three (3)
attributes: a) hydrology, b) soils and c) vegetation as mandated by the current
federal wetland determination methodology.
WHOLESALE: The sale of goods to retailers or jobbers rather than consumers.
WOODLANDS, MATURE: An area or stand of trees whose total combined canopy covers
an area of one acre or more and at least fifty percent (50%) of which is
composed of canopies of trees having a diameter at breast height (dbh) of at
least ten inches (10"), or any grove consisting of eight (8) or more individual
trees having a dbh of at least twelve inches (12") whose combined canopies
cover at least fifty percent (50%) of the area encompassed by the grove.
Provided, however, that no trees kept or grown for commercial purposes shall be
considered a mature woodland.
WOODLANDS, YOUNG: An area or stand of trees whose total combined canopy covers
an area of one-half (1/2) acre or more and at least fifty percent (50%) of
which is composed of canopies of trees having a diameter at breast height (dbh)
of at least three inches (3"). Provided, however, that no trees kept or grown
for commercial process shall be considered young woodland.
YARD: The space between a lot line and building line.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending the full width of the front of a zoning lot
between a street right-of-way and the building setback line.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending the full width of the lot in the area between the
rear lot line and the rear building line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard located on either side of a zoning lot extending from the
front yard to the rear yard between a building line and a lot line or street
right-of-way line in the case of a corner lot.
ZONE: An area of the Village of Lake Villa, delimited on the zoning map and
subject to a specific set of regulations established in this title.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: A written certification that a structure, use or parcel of
land is, or will be, in compliance with the requirements of this title. In the
case of any activity, which does not require a site plan review, a permit
issued by the Building Enforcement Officer shall also serve as a zoning
certificate for the specific activity for which the permit is issued.
ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The officer responsible for the enforcement of the
zoning and subdivision ordinances of the Village. The building inspector or
such other person who shall be so designated from time to time by the Village
Board shall be the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
ZONING LOT: See definition of lot, zoning. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd.
Ord. 2005-10-01, 10-12-2005; Ord. 2010-11-02, 11-24-2010; Ord. 2014-05-02, 5-
28-2014; Ord. 2019-02-01, 2-4-2019; Ord. 2019-02-05, 2-4-2019; Ord. 2019-11-02,
11-18-2019; Ord. 2020-01-01, 1-6-2020; Ord. 2022-11-04, 11-27-2022; Ord. 2024-
02-02, 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ZONES AND ZONE REGULATIONS
Zoning Districts   3A
Use Regulations   3B
Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Regulations   3C
VC-O Village Center Overlay   3D
Architectural Design Standards   3E
ARTICLE A. ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
10-3A-2: Planned Developments
10-3A-3: Statement Of Purpose And Intent Of Zoning Districts
10-3A-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
The intent of this chapter is to create a series of zoning districts of such
number and character as are necessary to achieve compatibility of uses within
each zone to complement the official zoning map of the village of Lake Villa as
described in section 10-10-3 of this title, which establishes the locations and
boundaries of the zoning districts (i.e., zones) created by this zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
10-3A-2: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Planned developments are a type of conditional use, but applications for same
will be considered by the village in accordance with chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-3A-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND INTENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following sections specify the purpose and intent of the zoning districts
established by this title:
   A.   Agricultural (AG): The AG zone is established as a zone in which
agricultural and certain related uses are encouraged as the principal uses of
land.
   B.   Neighborhood Conservation (NC) 1 : The neighborhood conservation
district ("NC") is intended to preserve the character of existing duplex
neighborhoods and developments. It is designed to prevent these neighborhoods
and subdivisions from being nonconforming under the terms of this title even
though the district they were built under has now been removed from the title.
This neighborhood conservation district replaces the residential 3 district.
The purpose of this district is not to create new duplex developments, but
rather to maintain existing duplex areas in a conforming state.
   C.   Suburban Residential (SR): The SR zone is established to provide low
density areas in which the principal use of land is for single-family
dwellings. These areas do not require village water supply or sewage disposal
facilities.
   D.   Urban Residential 1 (UR1) 2 : The UR1 zone is established to provide
areas for single-family dwellings in areas where village water supply or sewage
disposal facilities essential to public health are available or can be made
available in the near future.
   E.   Urban Residential 2 (UR2) 3 : This UR2 zone is established to provide
areas of a higher density than the UR1 zone but of a similar urban character
where the village sewer and water facilities are available or can be made
available in the future.
   F.   Urban Residential 3 (UR3) 4 : The UR3 zone is an urban residential
district of intermediate density intended for newly developed areas of Lake
Villa where all of the facilities, including village sewer and water
facilities, are or can be made available. UR3 permits single-family dwelling
unit types.
   G.   Urban Residential 3A (UR3A) 5 : The UR3A zone is an urban residential
district of intermediate density intended for new developed areas of Lake
Villa, which are part of a transit oriented development where a substantial
portion of the site is within one mile of the Lake Villa Metra Station, and
where all the facilities, including village sewer and water facilities are or
can be made available. UR3A permits single-family dwelling units only with a
mix of the lots which comply with lot area, yard and bulk regulations as
specified in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 2 of this chapter, but not more
than fifty percent (50%) of the lot mix may consist of the smallest size lots
permitted and the lot mix shall also include at least fifteen percent (15%) of
each of the other permitted lot sizes. In the UR3A zone, the lot mix sizes
shall be distributed throughout the subdivision on a substantially consistent
basis.
   H.   Urban Residential 4 (UR4) 6 : The UR4 zone is a high density
residential district that is compatible with a suburban character and is
established to provide for a complete range of housing types where all types of
dwelling units can be provided and where facilities, including village sewer
and water facilities, are or can be made available.
   I.   Commercial Recreational (CR): The CR zone is established to provide for
commercial operation of recreation oriented businesses in areas which are
particularly suitable for recreation.
   J.   Community Business (CB): This business zone is established to provide
areas for retail establishments, which offer a wide range of goods and
services.
   K.   Cedar Avenue (CA): An overlay zoning district that identifies areas of
the village's CBD zone in which architectural and site plan approval by the
board of trustees is required. Uses are restricted in this historical downtown
core of the village center. The area is shown in orange on the overlay map
illustration on file in the village.
   L.   Central Business District (CBD): The CBD zone is established to
encourage the development or redevelopment of the existing downtown business
area of the village of Lake Villa in a style that will preserve and duplicate
the historic character of this area, and to establish a unified district
approach that will accommodate a variety of uses and promote the vitality of
the area. The CBD permitted uses in subsection 10-3B-2H, table 1 of this
chapter, are uses that are permitted in the downtown core area shown on the
village center overlay draft in section 10-3D-1, figure 10-3D-1 of this
chapter.
   M.   Suburban Business (SB): The SB district is a business district intended
to maintain the suburban character of Lake Villa. It requires more landscaping
in order to maintain this character and provides for a pleasing street frontage
that is suburban, rather than urban, in character.
   N.   Limited Industrial (LI): The LI industrial zone is established to
provide areas for light industrial, office, and administrative uses, having
few, if any, adverse effects on neighboring properties.
   O.   Limited Industrial 2 (LI-2): The LI-2 industrial zone is established to
provide areas for light industrial, office, and administrative uses where
village water supply and sewage disposal facilities are available or will be
made available. This zone permits smaller lots in industrial locations but does
require the same performance standards as LI zone.
   P.   Railroad District (RD) 7 : This district is established to provide
appropriate zoning for parcels, which were previously owned by a railroad, and
used in conjunction therewith, or were previously part of a railroad right of
way.
   Q.   Residential 1 (R1): The R1 zone is established to provide low density
areas in which the principal use of land is for single- family dwellings. These
areas do not require village water supply or sewage disposal facilities.
   R.   Residential 2 (R2) 8 : The R2 zone is established to provide areas for
single-family dwellings in areas where village water supply and sewage disposal
facilities essential to public health are available or can be made available in
the near future.
   S.   Suburban Residential 1 (SR1) 9 : The SR1 zone is established to provide
for low density, high quality suburban living with a mix of single-family
residential types of dwelling units in areas where village water supply and
sewage disposal facilities are or can be made available.
   T.   Suburban Residential 2 (SR2) 10 : The SR2 zone is established to
provide for low to moderate density, single-family dwellings, including
conventional single-family detached, lot line, and village house types, where
village water supply and sewage disposal facilities are or can be made
available.
   U.   Suburban Residential 3 (SR3) 11 : The SR3 zone is a suburban
residential district of intermediate density intended for newly developed areas
of Lake Villa where all of the facilities, including village sewer and water
facilities, are or can be made available. SR3 permits a wide variety of
dwelling unit types, but limits the most intensive types.
   V.   Suburban Residential 4 (SR4) 12 : The SR4 zone is a high density
residential district that is compatible with a suburban character and is
established to provide for a complete range of housing types where all types of
dwelling units can be provided and where facilities, including village sewer
and water facilities, are or can be made available.
The R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, and SR4 zoning districts shall only apply to
property which was so zoned as of January 14, 2004. No other property shall be
zoned or rezoned into any of these zoning classifications after January 14,
2004. (Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
 
Notes
1  1. Requires village sewer and water services.
2  1. Requires village sewer and water services.
3  2. Requires village sewer and water services.
4  3. Requires village sewer and water services.
5  4. Requires village sewer and water services.
6  5. Requires village sewer and water services.
7  1. Requires village sewer and water services.
8  2. Requires village sewer and water services.
9  1. Requires village sewer and water services.
10 2. Requires village sewer and water services.
11 3. Requires village sewer and water services.
12 4. Requires village sewer and water services.
ARTICLE B. USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3B-1: General Regulations
10-3B-2: Permitted, Conditional, Temporary And Prohibited Uses
10-3B-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Principal uses permitted in zones shall be as listed in section 10-3B-2, table
1 of this article, with these exceptions:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for a
purpose permitted in the district in which the building or land is located.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located.
   C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area of regulations of the
district in which the building is located.
   D.   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family,
required by this title for each and every building existing at the time of
passage hereof or for any building hereafter erected shall not be encroached
upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a "lot" as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than
one main building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title.
   F.   The front yard requirements on both streets of a corner lot shall be
observed for all buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
   G.   The minimum floor area size per detached single-family dwelling shall
be one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet, excluding garage.
   H.   No church or other place of worship, nor any primary, secondary,
university, college, junior college or seminary school shall be located or
established within one hundred feet (100') of any established tavern or other
business, which holds a valid liquor license. (Ord. 2010-11-02, 11-24-2010)
10-3B-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL, TEMPORARY AND PROHIBITED USES:
The use regulations for each zone are listed in table 1 of this section, and
shall be subject to the following rules or interpretation:
   A.   A use listed in table 1 of this section, in any district denoted by the
letter "X", is a use permitted by right; provided that the requirements of
state and village law, including this title, have been met.
   B.   A use listed in table 1 of this section, in any district denoted by the
letter "S", is a use, which is permitted by right as a special use subject to
the provisions of section
10-4-3 of this title; provided that the requirements of state and village law,
including this title, have been met.
   C.   A use listed in table 1 of this section, in any district denoted by the
letter "C", is a use which may be permitted as a conditional use subject to the
provisions of sections
10-4-4 and
10-7-2 of this title; provided that the requirements of state and village law,
including this title, have been met and shall be subject to the express
conditions of the conditional use permit which shall be set forth in this
chapter and which shall ensure that the proposed conditional use is compatible
with surrounding properties and that any adverse effects of such conditional
use on the public health, safety, and welfare have been or will be removed or
mitigated.
   D.   A use listed in table 1 of this section, in any district denoted by the
letter "T", is a use which may be permitted as a temporary use, subject to the
provisions of section
10-4-5 of this title; provided that the requirements of state and village law,
including this title, have been met.
   E.   A use listed in table 1 of this section, in any district for which
there is no letter designation, shall be prohibited.
   F.   All uses which are not expressly permitted by table 1 of this section
are prohibited, except uses which are permitted by a conditional use permit,
which uses shall also be prohibited unless specifically authorized by a
conditional use permit approved by the board of trustees by ordinance. Where a
use is not expressly prohibited by table 1 of this section, but the board of
trustees by ordinance finds that a proposed use is substantially similar to
listed uses which are expressly permitted and compatible with the character and
objectives of the zoning district or districts within which it would be
located, such a conditional use may be granted by village ordinance, subject to
the express conditions which the board of trustees determines will make the
proposed conditional use compatible with surrounding properties and/or that
will mitigate or remove any adverse effects of such conditional use on the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   G.   The listing of a particular conditional use within a specific zoning
district does not constitute any assurance or presumption that such conditional
use will be approved. Rather, each proposed conditional use shall be evaluated
on a case by case basis, in relation to its compliance with the standards and
conditions set forth in this zoning ordinance, and with the standards for the
district in which it is located, in order to determine whether approval of the
conditional use is appropriate at the particular location, with the specific
conditions proposed. (Ord. 2010-11-02, 11-24-2010)
   H.   Table 1, principal uses permitted in zones:
 
                                          Permitted with conditional use
X = Permitted by right               C = permit (see section
                                          10-4-4 of this title)
    Permitted by right as a special
S = use (see section                 T = Permitted with temporary use permit
    10-4-3 of this title)
 
Use AG NC SR UR1 UR2 UR3 UR3A UR4 CR CBD CA CB SB LI LI-2 RD1
Use                   AG NC SR UR1 UR2 UR3 UR3A UR4 CR CBD CA CB SB LI LI-2 RD1
Adult respite care    C  C  C  C   C   C   C    C   C  C     C  C         
center
Adult Use Cannabis
Business                                                      
Establishment(s)
Adult Use Cannabis                                   C1 C1 C1    
Craft Grower
Adult Use Cannabis                                            
Cultivation Center
Adult Use Cannabis
Dispensing                                           C2 C2 C2    
Organization
Adult Use Cannabis
Infuser Organization                                 C3 C3 C3    
Or Infuser
Adult Use Cannabis
Processing                                                    
Organization Or
Processor
Adult Use Cannabis
Transporting                                                  
Organization Or
Transporter
Advertising agency                            X     X  X        X
Advertising agency
(if restricted to                                X             
second floor and
above)
Advertising display                                    X  X    C
construction
Agricultural
implement sales and
service (see                                           S  S     
subsection
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Agricultural uses     X                                        
Airport (see
subsection            C                                 C  C     
10-4-4B21 of this
title)
Amusement park                              C                  
Antique sales                            C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Appliance, sales,                        C     X     X  X  X  X    X
repair or service
Arboretum or
botanical garden (5   C                                        
acre minimum)
Archery range, indoor                       C       C  C         
Archery range,
outdoor (see
subsection            C                      C                  
10-4-4B16 of this
title)
Art gallery,                             C     X   X  X  X        X
commercial
Art supply store                         C     X   X  X  X        X
Automobile and/or                                      X  X     
truck body shop
Automobile parking                            X     X  X  X  X    X
garage or lot
Automobile sales and
rental (see
subsection                                         S  S         
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Automobile service
and repairs,
excluding auto body
repairs (see                                       S  S  S  S     
subsection
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Automobile washing
(see subsection                                    S  S         
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Bakery, retail                           C     X   X  X  X        X
Bank                                     C     X     X  X        X
Barbershop                               C     X   X  X  X        X
Batch plant for road  T  T  T  T   T   T   T    T   T  T     T  T  T  T    T
construction
Beauty salon/tanning                     C     X   X  X  X        X
salon
Beverage                                               X  X     
distribution, sales
Bicycle sales                            C     X   X  X  X        X
Blueprinting and                                   X  X  X  X    X
photostat shop
Boat rental (see
subsection            C                      C                  
10-4-3B5 of this
title)
Boat sales and
service (see
subsection                                         S  S  X  X     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Bookstore (except no
adult bookstore                          C     X   X  X  X        X
permitted)
Bowling alley                               X  X     C  X        X
Building material
sales yard (see
subsection                                             C  C     
10-4-4B12 of this
title)
Bulk materials
storage (see
subsection                                             C  C     
10-4-4B26 of this
title)
Bus maintenance shop
and bus parking lot
(see subsection                                        S  S     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Business machine
repair, servicing and                              X  X  X  X    X
sales
Cabinetmaker                                         X  X  X    C
Camera shop                              C     X   X  X  X        X
Camp, commercial
recreational (see
subsection                                  C                  
10-4-4B16 of this
title)
Camp, day or youth
(see subsection       C                      C                  
10-4-4B16 of this
title)
Candy store                              C     X   X  X  X        X
Carnival or circus    T                      T  T     T  T         
Carpet and rug                                         S  S     
cleaning plant
Catalog sales office                               X  X  X  X    X
or mail order store
Catering service                                   X  X  X  X    X
Cemetery (see
subsection            C  C  C  C   C   C   C    C                     
10-4-4B5 of this
title)
Childcare facility
(see subsections
10-4-3B1 and          S  S  S  S   S   S   S    S   C  C     C  C  C  C     
10-4-4B6 of this
title)
Christmas tree sales  T                      T       T  T  T  T    T
Church, or other      X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X  C     C  X  X  X    X
place of worship
Clothing store                           C     X   X  X  X        X
Commercial center
(see subsection                          C   C  C   C  C  C  C  C    C
10-4-4B10 of this
title)
Community center for
public use (except    X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X  X     X  X  X  X    X
for Village uses)
Compressed gas                                         X  X    X
distribution, sales
Computer sales,                          C     X   X  X  X         
retail
Contractor's
equipment storage,                                 X  X  X  X     
indoor
Contractor's
equipment storage,                                     C  C     
yard
Contractor's model    T  T  T  T   T   T   T    T   T                 T
home
Contractor's project  T  T  T  T   T   T   T    T   T       T  T  T  T    T
office and sheds
Crematory (see
subsection                                               C     
10-4-4B30 of this
title)
Currency exchange                             X     X  X        X
Dance and/or fitness
studio                                   C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
(instructional)
Dance hall                               C   C  C     C  C        C
(instructional)
Department store                              X   X  X  X        X
Discount store                                X   X  X  X        X
Drive-in theater (see
subsection              C                    C                  
10-4-4B17 of this
title)
Drive-up sales,
rental or service
(see subsection                               C     C  C        C
10-4-4B11 of this
title)
Drugstore                                C     X   X  X  X        X
Dry cleaning,                            C     X     X  X        X
pressing, repair
Dwelling, apartments                     X          C  C         
Dwelling, group                          X                     
Dwelling, single-     X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X                  
family
Dwelling, townhouse                      X                     
Dwelling, two-family    X                 X                     
Dwelling unit (if
restricted to second                          C   C  C  C         
floor and above)
Elderly housing (see
subsection                               C                     
10-4-4B25 of this
title)
Electronic equipment
sales (not                               C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
installation)
Emergency care,
trauma center (see
subsection            S                   C          S  S         
10-4-3B2 of this
title)
Employment office                             X     X  X        X
Employment office (if
restricted to second                             X             
floor and above)
Engineering office                            X   X  X  X        X
Exterminating and                                    X  X  X    C
fumigating shop
Feed and grain sales                                   S  S     
Floodplain uses (see
subsection            C  C  C  C   C   C   C    C   C       C  C  C  C    C
10-4-4B27 of this
title)
Floor covering sales                          X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Florist sales                            C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Food processing and                                    X  X    C
packing
Fruit and vegetable                      C     T   T  X  X  S  S    X
market, retail
Fuel: oil, coal, and                                   C  C     
wood sales
Funeral home                                         X        X
Furnace, HVAC, and
water heater sales,                      C          X  X  X  X    X
display, service
Furniture cleaning,                                    X  X    C
refinishing
Furniture sales                               X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Furrier, retail only                          X   X  X  X        X
Garden center,                                     S  S  S  S     
greenhouse, nursery
Gas, butane and
propane sales (bulk
and refilling, when                                    X  X    X
not limited to
consumer use)
Gasoline service                                   S  S         
station
Gift store                               C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Go-kart racetrack                           C                  
Golf course           C                      C                  
Golf driving range    C                      C                  
Golf, miniature                             C                  
Greenhouse and/or                                    S  S  S     
nursery center
Grocery store or                         C     X   X  X  X        X
supermarket
Hair salon                               C     X   X  X  X        X
Hardware store,                          C     X   X  X  X        X
retail
Health club or                           C   X       X  X  X  X    X
gymnasium
Health food store                        C     X   X  X  X        X
Hobby shop, retail                       C     X   X  X  X        X
Hospital (see
subsection                                         C  C         
10-4-4B7 of this
title)
Hotel, motel                                X       X  X        X
Household furnishing                     C   X  X   X  X          X
shop
Ice cream shop                           C   X  X   X  X  X        X
Icehouse                                               X  X    X
Industrial park (see                                   C  X     
Commercial center)
Industrial uses
generally involving
the use of materials
brought in from off
site; including, but
not limited to,
assembling, cleaning,
compounding,
fabricating,
manufacturing,                                         X  X     
packaging,
processing,
producing, repairing,
servicing, storing,
and testing which can
meet the highest
industrial
performance standard
(see section
10-4-1 of this title)
Institutional mixed
use (see subsection                      C            C         
10-4-4B24 of this
title)
Insurance office                         C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Interior decorators                      C     X     X  X  X  X    X
Jewelry, sales                           C     X   X  X  X        X
Kennels, animal
shelter, dog
obedience school (see C                                 C  C     
subsection
10-4-4B3 of this
title)
Kennel, commercial
(sales or boarding)
(see subsection       C                                 C  C     
10-4-4B3 of this
title)
Landscape
contractor's storage                                   C  C     
yard
Laundry, nonretail                                     X  X    C
Laundry, retail                                    X  X        X
Leather goods sales                      C     X   X  X  X        X
Library, public
(except for village   C  C  C  C   C   C   C    C   C       C  C  C  C    C
uses)
Liquor store (see
section                                       X   X  X  X         
3-8-6 of this code)
Locksmith                                C          X  X  X  X    X
Lumber, retail sales                               C  C  C  C     
Machinery storage     C                                 C  C     
yard
Massage establishment
(only if currently
licensed pursuant to                          C   C  C  C  C  C     
Chapter 7 fo Title 3
of the Lake Villa
Village Code)
Meat market, retail                      C     X   X  X  X        X
Meatpacking                                            X  X     
Medical cannabis
cultivation center
(see subsection                                          C     
10-4-4B28 of this
title)
Medical cannabis
dispensing
organization (see                                    C  C  C     
subsection
10-4-4B29 of this
title)
Medical clinic, or                       C     X   C  X  X  X  X    X
office
Medical laboratory                                 X  X  X  X    X
Miniwarehouse,
personal storage
facility (see                                        C  X  X     
subsection
10-4-4B13 of this
title)
Mobile home sales,                                     S  S     
service
Monument sales                                     X  X  X  X     
Motorcycle sales,
service (see
subsection                                         S  S  S  S     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Motor-rail freight                                     X  X    X
terminal
Museum, or gallery,
not for profit                              C  C   C  C  C  C  C    C
(except for village
uses)
Music, musical
instruments, and CD                      C     X   X  X  X  X  X     
sales
Nursery, tree and     X                                        
shrubs, nonretail
Nursing home or
convalescent home,
including instruction
for the mentally or
physically                               C            C         
handicapped (see
subsection
10-4-4B8 of this
title)
Office equipment and
supplies, retail                         C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
sales and service
Office park (see                                   C  C  X  X    C
Commercial center)
Offices for executive
or administrative                             X   X  X  X  X  X    X
purposes
Ornamental iron                                        X  X     
workshop
Outside sales,
storage, and display
uses (see subsection                          S   S  S  S  S  S     
10-4-3B4 of this
title)
Park or playground,       X  X   X   X   X    X   X  X     X  X  X  X    X
public
Paint and wallpaper                      C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
sales
Park, commercial                            C                  
recreation
Pet store and                            C     X     X  X  X  X    X
grooming
Photography studio                       C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Picnic grove                                X                  
Planned development
(see chapter 9 of     C  C  C  C   C   C   C    C   C  C   C  C  C  C  C    C
this title)
Playground            X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X  X     X           
Plumbing supplies and                         X     X  X  X  X    X
fixture sales, retail
Post office (United                           X   X  X  X  X  X    X
States)
Printing and                             C     X     X  X  X  X    X
photocopying service
Professional office                      C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Radio and TV sales or                    C          X  X  X  X    X
repair
Real estate project   T  T  T  T   T   T   T    T   T  T     T  T  T  T    T
sales office
Recreation center,    X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X       X  X  X  X    X
public
Recreational
accessory uses (see
subsection            C    C  C   C   C   C    C   C  C     C  C         
10-4-4B15 of this
title)
Recreational uses,
outdoor (see
subsection                                  C                  
10-4-4B16 of this
title)
Recreational vehicle                        C                  
park
Recreational vehicle
sales, service and                                 S  S  S  S     
rental
Recreational vehicle                                   S  S     
storage
Rental of equipment
and supplies, indoor                                   X  X     
storage
Resort                                      C                  
Restaurant                               C   X  X   X  X  X  C  C    X
Retail sales as an                       C              X  X     
accessory use
Savings and loan                         C     X     X  X        X
association
Schools:                                                      
Business                                      X     X  X         
College, university                           C     X  X         
or junior college
Commercial school,
trade, or other
school offering
specialized courses                                    X  X    C
of study including
personal training
center
Elementary, high or   X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X                     
junior high
Fine arts                                   C  C                
General education     X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X                     
Industrial                                             X  X     
Primary or secondary  X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X     C     X  X        X
Seminary, theological                         C     X  X         
Scientific research
laboratory including,
but not limited to,
pure research,
product development,
pilot plants, and                                  C  C  X  X     
research
manufacturing
facilities (see
subsection
10-4-4B19 of this
title)
Seasonal sale of farm T                      T  T     T  T  T  T    T
produce
Secondhand store/                             X   X  X  X  X  X    X
resale shop
Septic tank sales,
service (see
subsection                                             C  C     
10-4-4B20 of this
title)
Sewing machine shop                           X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Shelter, temporary    T  T  T  T   T   T   T    T                    T
Sheltered care home
(see subsection       C  C  C  C   C   C   C    C                     
10-4-4B2 of this
title)
Shoe repair shop                         C          X  X  X  X    X
Shoe store                               C     X   X  X  X        X
Shooting range,                             C       C  C  C  C     
indoor
Shooting range,
outdoor (5 acres      C                      C                  
required)
Shopping center (see                        C  C   C  C  C  C  C    C
Commercial center)
Sign shop                                     C     X  X  X  X    X
Signs (see Lake Villa
sign ordinance)       X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X  X     X  X  X  X    X
(chapter 6, article D
of this title)
Skating rink (ice,
roller, or                                  C           C  C     
rollerblade)
Solid waste disposal                                          
sites (not permitted)
Solar energy system,  C                                 C  C     
ground-mounted
Solar energy system,  X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X  X   X  X  X  X  X    X
building-mounted
Souvenir, curio sales                    C   X  X   X  X  X        X
Spectator sports
facility, private and
public, not including
these accessories -
primary and secondary                       C       C  C  C  C     
schools (see
subsection
10-4-4B9 of this
title)
Sporting goods, sales                    C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Sports arena                                C       C  C  C       
Stable, commercial
(see subsection       C                      C                  
10-4-4B4 of this
title)
Stable, private (see
subsection            C                                        
10-4-4B4 of this
title)
Stationery store,                        C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
retail sales
Swimming pool,
commercial (not                                               
permitted)
Tattoo Studio                                        S         
Tavern (sometimes
also referred to as a
"bar" or "cocktail                          C  C   X  X  X         
lounge" or
"nightclub")
Taxicab garage (see
subsection                                             S  S     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Teen club                                   C  C   C  C  C  C  C    C
Temporary sales       T  T  T  T   T   T   T    T   T  T     T  T  T  T    T
Theater                                     X  X     X  X  X  X     
Ticket office                                 X     X  X  X  X    X
Toy store                                C     X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Travel agency                            C     X     X  X  X  X    X
Truck parking (see
subsection                                             S  S     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Truck sales, repair
(see subsection                                        S  S     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Truck, trailer rental
(see subsection                                        S  S     
10-4-3B3 of this
title)
Upholstery shop                          C     X     X  X  X  X    X
Utility installation
and service (see
subsection                                             C  C     
10-4-4B23 of this
title)
Utility service yard                                   C  C     
or garage
Veterinary clinic                                  X  X  X  X    X
(indoor only)
Village buildings,
structures and other  X  X  X  X   X   X   X    X   X  X   X  X  X  X  X    X
Village uses
Warehouse                                              C  C     
Water softening
equipment sales,                              X     X  X  X  X    X
rental, service
Welding shop                                           X  X     
Well drilling service                                  X  C     
Wholesaling and
storage of goods or                                    X  X     
materials
Wildlife refuge or
preserve (5 acre      C                                        
minimum)
Wind energy system,                                           
large
Wind energy system,
small - building-                                  C  C  C  C     
mounted
Wind energy system,
small - ground-                                               
mounted
 
Note:
   1.    Any use existing in the RD District as of August 15, 1991, is a
permitted use.
   C1=   An Adult Use Craft Grower may be authorized only when granted a
Conditional Use by a separate ordinance and only when co-located within the
Village and sharing the same premises with a Medical Cannabis Dispensing
Organization and/or with an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
   C2=   Not more than two (2) Conditional Uses for Adult Use Cannabis
Dispensing Organizations shall be authorized within the Village.
   C3=   An Adult Use Infuser Organization may be authorized only when granted
a Conditional Use by separate ordinance and only when colocated within the
Village and sharing the same premises with a Medical Cannabis Dispensing
Organization and/or with an Adult Use Dispensing Organization.
(Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-28-2015; Ord. 2016-11-02,
11-9-2016; Ord. 2017-06-01, 6-28-2017; Ord. 2019-02-05, 2-4-2019; Ord. 2019-11-
02, 11-18-2019; Ord. 2020-01-01, 1-6-2020; Ord. 2022-11-03, 11-27-2022; Ord.
2022-11-04, 11-27-2022; Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-5-2024)
   I.   Table 1, principal uses permitted in prior zones 1 :
 
X = Permitted by right
S = Permitted by right as a special use (see section
    10-4-3 of this title)
C = Permitted with conditional use permit (see section
    10-4-4 of this title)
T = Permitted with temporary use permit
 
Use SR1 SR2 SR3 SR4 R1 R2
Use                                                       SR1 SR2 SR3 SR4 R1 R2
Agriculture:                                                             
Apiary                                                                   
Cultivation of field and garden crops                     X   X   X   X   X  X
Greenhouse, nonretail                                                    
Nursery, tree and shrub, nonretail                                       
Residential:                                                             
Apartment as accessory use in business buildings, but not                
on the ground floor frontage
Apartment house                                                 X   X      
Attached dwelling unit for owner or operator of principal                
use
Cluster single-family                                     X   X   X   X      
Elderly housing                                                    C      
Group dwelling                                                     X      
Kennel, private (see subsection                              C         C   
10-4-4B3 of this title)
Planned residential                                             X   X      
Riding stable, private (see subsection                       C         C   
10-4-4B4 of this title)
Sheltered care home (see subsection                       C   C   C   C   C  C
10-4-4B2 of this title)
Single-family dwelling                                    X   X   X   X   X  X
Two-family dwelling                                                      
Institutional:                                                           
Cemetery (see subsection                                  C   C   C   C   C  C
10-4-4B5 of this title)
Childcare/center, nursery school (see subsection
10-4-3B1 or                                               S   S   S   S   S  S
10-4-4B6 of this title)
Church, or other place of worship                         X   X   X   X   X  X
Commercial school, trade school or other school offering
specialized courses of study including personnel training                
center
Community center, public                                  X   X   X   X   X  X
Convent, monastery                                                 X      
Emergency care, trauma center (see subsection                            
10-4-3B2 of this title)
Hospital, general (see subsection                                        
10-4-4B7 of this title)
Institutional mixed use                                                 C
Library, public                                           X   X   X   X   X  X
Municipal building, structure, or other municipal use     X   X   X   X   X  X
Museum or gallery, nonretail                              X   X   X   X   X  X
Nursing home or convalescent home, including institution
for the mentally or physically handicapped (see                    C      
subsection
10-4-4B8 of this title)
Park or playground, public                                X   X   X   X   X  X
Recreation center, public                                 X   X   X   X   X  X
School, primary or secondary                              X   X   X   X   X  X
School, university, college, junior college, or seminary                 
Spectator sports facility, private and public, not
including those accessory to primary and secondary                       
schools (see subsection
10-4-4B9 of this title)
Wildlife refuge or preserve, arboretum or botanical                      
garden, noncommercial (5 acre minimum)
Commercial recreation outdoor:                                           
Amusement park                                                           
Archery range                                                            
Boat rental and storage                                                  
Camp, commercial recreation                                              
Camp, day or youth                                                       
Carnival or circus                                                       
Club, outdoor recreational                                               
Country club                                              C   C   C   C   C  C
Drive-in theater (see subsection                                         
10-4-4B17 of this title)
Go-kart track                                                            
Golf course                                               C   C   C   C   C  C
Golf driving range                                                       
Marina, commercial (not permitted)                                       
Miniature golf                                                           
Park, commercial recreation                                              
Recreational accessory use                                               
Resort                                                                   
Riding stables, commercial (see subsection                               
10-4-4B4 of this title)
Skating rink, commercial                                                 
Swimming pool, commercial                                                
Other:                                                                   
Airports and heliports (see subsection                                   
10-4-4B21 of this title)
Automobile parking lots and garages                                      
Public and private utilities (see subsection              C   C   C   C   C  C
10-4-4B23 of this title)
Signs (see sign ordinance)                                               
Solid waste disposal sites                                               
Temporary uses:                                                          
Christmas tree sales                                                     
Contractor's project office and equipment sheds           T   T   T   T   T  T
Real estate project sales office                          T   T   T   T   T  T
Seasonal sales of farm produce                                           
Tent meeting                                                             
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See last paragraph of section 10-3A-3 of this chapter.
ARTICLE C. LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3C-1: Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements In All Zones
10-3C-2: Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Regulations Table
10-3C-3: Residential District Performance Standards Table For Prior Zones
10-3C-4: Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements Table For Prior Zones
10-3C-5: Lot Area, Yard, Lot Mix And Bulk Requirements Table For Planned
Developments And SR4 District
10-3C-1: LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REQUIREMENTS IN ALL ZONES:
   A.   Lot Area: Any principal use together with all accessory uses shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
column 3 of this article.
      The minimum lot area for a townhouse and/or apartment dwellings shall be
the sum of the lot area required for the first dwelling unit plus the lot area
requirements for each additional dwelling unit as shown in section 10-3C-2,
table 2, column 3 of this article.
      The minimum buildable area of a lot shall not include any area of
floodplain.
   B.   Lot Width: Lots in any zone shall have a minimum width at the building
setback line on any street as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of
this article; except certain lots in the UR3 and UR3A zones shall be subject to
the following special rules: Lots in the UR3 and UR3A zones, which are at the
terminus of a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear street, may have a width at the
building setback line less than the average width of the lot, but the width of
such lots as measured at the building setback may be not less than fifty
percent (50%) of the width specified in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of
this article, and the width at the front lot line (i.e., the frontage) of such
lots shall not be less than fifty percent (50%) of the width specified in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of this article.
The minimum lot width for a townhouse and apartment dwellings shall be the sum
of the lot width requirement for the first dwelling unit plus the lot width
requirement for the second dwelling unit plus the lot width requirements for
each additional dwelling unit as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of
this article. Also the additional setback shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
columns 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this article.
   C.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard not less than as shown in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 5 of this article; except as otherwise
provided in section 10-5-2, "Nonconforming Recorded Lots", of this title.
   D.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard not less than as shown in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 6 of this article; except as otherwise
provided in section 10-5-2, "Nonconforming Recorded Lots", of this title. These
provisions shall apply to setbacks from an alley.
   E.   Side Yards: Each lot shall have two (2) side yards, the total of which
is not less than shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 7 of this article.
No side yard shall be less than the minimum side yard shown in section 10-3C-2,
table 2, column 8 of this article; except as otherwise provided in section 10-
5-2, "Nonconforming Recorded Lots", of this title. These provisions shall apply
to setbacks from an alley.
   F.   Yards Abutting Streets: Any side or rear yard which abuts a street
shall not be less than as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 9 of this
article; except as otherwise provided in section 10-5-2, "Nonconforming
Recorded Lots", of this title.
      Where indicated by note 15 in section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this article,
the dimensions of a corner lot shall be enlarged sufficiently to produce a
buildable area at least equal to the minimum buildable area as shown in section
10-3C-2, table 2, column 3 of this article.
   G.   Yards Abutting Residential Or Agricultural Zones: Any side or rear yard
abutting a residential or agricultural zone shall be not less than as shown in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 10 of this article.
   H.   Lot Coverage: The total ground area occupied by any principal building
together with all accessory structures shall not exceed the percent of the
total area of the lot shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 11 of this
article.
   I.   Floor Area Ratio: The combined floor area ratio for any principal
building together with all accessory buildings shall not exceed the ratio shown
in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 12 of this article, excluding a
nonhabitable basement.
   J.   Height Of Principal Use: No principal building or structure shall
exceed the height restrictions in feet as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
column 13 of this article, or the height restrictions in stories as shown in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 14 of this article, except as specifically
provided otherwise in the notes to table 2 in section 10-3C-2 of this article.
   K.   Height Of Accessory Uses: No accessory building or structure shall
exceed the height in feet shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 15 of this
article, or the height in stories shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 16
of this article, except as specifically provided otherwise in the notes to
table 2 in section 10-3C-2 of this article.
   L.   Accessory Structures, Setbacks: An accessory structure which is not
attached to nor part of a principal structure may be located within the
required side or rear yard setback, but not the front yard setback, provided
that it is located at least five feet (5') or greater from the lot line and
further provided that the structure shall not be located in any area burdened
by a recorded easement, such as, but not limited to, a utility easement.
Additionally, any accessory use must be separated from its principal use by at
least four feet (4').
   M.   Minimum Residential Floor Area: The minimum floor area required for
single-family dwelling units in all residential zones is one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet, except as provided in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
note 14 of this article. (Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
10-3C-2: LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS TABLE:
TABLE 2
LOT AREAS, YARD AND BULK REGULATIONS
         Lot Size   Yards                                      Bulk
                               Total      Min.     Min.                      Max.      Max.
         Min. Min.  Min.  Min. Side  Min. Setback  Setback     Max. Lot Max. Height Of Height Of
Zone Use Area Width Front Rear Yard  Side Abutting Abutting A  Coverage FAR  Principal Accessory
                               Min.  Yard A Street Residential               Use       Use
                                                   Or AG Zone
         Sq.  Ft.   Ft.   Ft.  Ft.   Ft.  Ft.      Ft.         %        %    Ft. Story Ft. Story
         Ft.
1    2   3    4     5     6    7     8    9        10          11       12   13  14    15  16
                     Lot Size            Yards                                      Bulk
                                                    Total      Min.     Min.                      Max.      Max.
                                   Min.  Min.  Min. Side  Min. Setback  Setback     Max. Lot Max. Height Of Height Of
Zone Use             Min. Area     Width Front Rear Yard  Side Abutting Abutting A  Coverage FAR  Principal Accessory
                                                    Min.  Yard A Street Residential               Use       Use
                                                                        Or AG Zone
                     Sq. Ft.       Ft.   Ft.   Ft.  Ft.   Ft.  Ft.      Ft.         %        %    Ft. Story Ft. Story
1    2               3             4     5     6    7     8    9        10          11       12   13  14    15  16
     Health-medical
     use or          200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         10       -    35  2.5   25  1
     veterinary
AG   clinic
     Commercial or   200,0008      300   307   607  607   307  30       30          10       -    35  2.5   25  1
     private stable
     Single-family   200,0008      300   30    60   60    30   30       30          10       -    35  2.5   25  1
     dwelling
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          20       -    35  2.5   25  1
     school
SR   Health-medical  200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         20       -    35  2.5   25  1
     use
     Single-family   40,0008       130   30    30   35    15   30       13          20       -    35  2.5   25  1
     dwelling
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          30       -    50  3     25  1
     school
     Any permitted
UR1  health- medical 200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         30       -    50  3     25  1
     use
     Single-family   20,0001       902   3011  25   24    9    3015     9           30       -    35  2.5   25  1
     dwelling10
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          30       -    50  3     25  1
     school
     Any permitted
UR2  health- medical 200,0008      300   70    100  200   100  70       100         30       -    50  3     25  1
     use
     Single-family   15,0001       802   3011  25   19    8    3015     7           35       -    35  2.5   25  1
     dwelling10
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          30       40   50  3     25  1
     school
     Any permitted
     health- medical 200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         30       40   50  3     25  1
     use
     Single-family                                                                                  
UR3  dwelling10:
     At least 25% of
     required lot    13,4901       956   3011  25   25    10   3015     9           30       40   35  2.5   25  1
     size mix
     At least 25% of 12,0701       856   3011  25   22    9    3015     8           30       40   35  2.5   25  1
     required lot    10,6501       756   3011  25   19    8    3015     7           30       40   35  2.5   25  1
     size mix
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          30       40   50  3     25  1
     school
     Any permitted
     health- medical 200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         30       40   50  3     25  1
     use
     Single-family                                                                                  
     dwelling:
     At least 15% of
UR3A required lot    10,2001,10,14 736   3011  25   181   9    30       10          30       40   35  2.5   25  1
     mix
     At least 15% of
     required lot    9,3001,10,14  656   3011  25   161   8    30       9           35       40   35  2.5   25  1
     mix
     Not more than
     50% of the      8,0001,10,14  556   3011  25   121   6    30       7           40       45   35  2.5   25  1
     required lot
     mix
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          30       40   50  3     25  1
     school
     Any permitted
     health- medical 200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         30       40   50  3     25  1
     use
     Group dwelling  20,0001       90    30    25   23    9    3015     9           30       40   35  2.5   25  1
     Single and two- 13,5001       90    30    25   15    6    3015     6           30       -    35  2.5   25  1
UR4  family dwelling
     Any permitted
     townhouse or                                                                                   
     apartment:
     First du        8,5001        60    30    6    15    6    3015     6           30       40   50  3     25  1
     Second du       +5,000        +25   30    +4   +8    +4   3015     +4          30       40   50  3     25  1
     Each additional +3,000        +5    30    +1   +2    +1   3015     +1          30       40   50  3     25  1
     du
     Any permitted   200,0008      300   30    19   48    19   30       19          30       40   50  3     25  1
     school
     Any permitted
NC   health- medical 200,0008      300   75    100  200   100  75       100         30       40   50  3     25  1
     use
     Single and two- 13,5001       90    30    25   15    6    3015     6           30       -    35  2.5   25  1
     family dwelling
     Single-family                                                                                  
     dwelling:
     With Village    20,0001       902   3011  25   23    9    3015     9           30       -    35  2.5   25  1
CR   sewer
     Without Village 40,000        100   30    25   20    10   30       10          30       -    35  2.5   25  1
     sewer
     Any other       40,0008       190   30    20   40    20   30       20          30       -    35  2.5   25  1
     permitted use10
SB   Suburban        40,0008       150   50    20   30    15   50       30          70       80   40  3     25  1
     Business
     With Village    10,0001       50    30    12   243   12   3015     30          30       60   40  3     25  1
CB   sewer
     Without Village 20,000        100   30    12   243   12   3015     30          30       60   40  3     25  1
     sewer1,2,3,6,8
     Central
CBD  Business        -             -     - 12  - 13 - 3   - 3  - 12     - 13        50       200  50  4     25  1
     District
LI   Light           40,000        130   50    205  40    20   50       50          60       80   409 3     30   
     Industrial4,6,8
     Light
LI-2 Industrial      20,000        90    50    205  20    10   50       50          40       80   409 3     25   
     21,2,3,4
RD   Railroad        10,0001       50    30    125  15    6    3015     6           40       80   40  3     25  1
     District
 
Notes:
   1.    Village sewer and water facilities in the area are required in this
zone as a prerequisite to the development at densities as shown in this table.
(See also section 10-4-7, "Required Sewer And Water Services", of this title.)
   2.    The average width of the lot shall be as specified in this table,
however, the width measured at the building setback line may be 60 feet.
   3.    Side yards are not required in this zone if the proposed construction
meets Fire Codes and if the lot line is not a zoning boundary line abutting a
Residential Zone or streets, and provided there is acceptable access to the
rear of the property. Nothing herein shall permit the creation of a fractional
part of the required minimum side yard.
   4.    Uses are permitted in the LI and LI-2 Zones, subject to industrial
performance standards. See section 10-4-1 of this title.
   5.    Any setback from a railroad right-of-way need not exceed 5 feet in the
LI, LI-2 and RD Zones.
   6.    Lots in any zone shall have a minimum width at the building setback
line on any street as shown in column 4 of this table; except certain lots in
the UR3 and UR3A Zones shall be subject to the following special rules: Lots in
the UR3 and UR3A Zones, which are either at the terminus of a cul-de-sac or on
a curvilinear street, may have a width at the building setback line less than
the average width of the lot, but the width of such lots as measured at the
building setback may be not less than 50 percent of the width specified in
column 4 of this table, and the width at the front lot line (i.e., the
frontage) of such lots shall not be less than 50 percent of the width specified
in column 4 of this table.
   7.    A corral shall comply with specified setbacks. Pasture may extend to a
lot line.
   8.    The minimum buildable area may be increased to ensure that where a
floodplain exists on lots and where on site septic and well system are
required, each lot shall have sufficient buildable area to support a septic
field, a reserve area and well at required distances, as determined by the
requirements of the Lake County Health Department regulations.
   9.    Any structures may be a maximum of 40 feet in height in the LI and LI-
2 Zones. In addition, a structure may have additional height, provided that no
structure shall intercept the plane making an angle of 40 degrees from the
horizontal toward the interior of the lot and originating at each property
line, and provided further that no structure shall exceed 95 feet in height.
   10.    When there is a new UR3 subdivision proposed which abuts an existing
subdivision of larger lots, the following criteria shall be met in order to
transition in the smaller lot subdivision: 1 row of larger lots shall be back
against the existing larger lots such as UR1 - 20,000 square foot lots against
SR - 40,000 square foot lots, UR2 -15,000 square foot lots against UR1 - 20,000
square foot lots, and UR3 - 13,490 square foot lots against UR2 - 15,000 square
foot lots. The remaining lots can be of the smaller size because of the
previous lot transition. However, this does not apply to UR3A where different
lot mix sizes shall be distributed throughout the subdivision on a
substantially consistent basis throughout a UR3A subdivision.
   11.    a.    Side load front garage; front setback can be 15 feet from
right-of-way to garage.
      b.    External side load corner lot garage; setback can be 25 feet from
right-of-way to garage.
      c.    Front load garage 8 feet forward or back; front setback can be 25
feet from right-of-way to garage.
   12.    CBD 2 foot front yard from Cedar Avenue; 12 feet from all other
streets in CBD.
   13.    CBD abutting Residential District same yards as Residential District.
   14.    The minimum livable area for any single-family dwelling in the UR3A
Zoning District shall be 1,800 square feet for a single-story dwelling unit and
2,100 square feet for a two-story dwelling unit, but neither the basement of a
dwelling unit, nor its garage, shall be considered for the purposes of either
of these requirements.
   15.    The dimensions of a corner lot shall be enlarged sufficiently to
produce a buildable area at least equal to the minimum buildable area as shown
in column 3 of this table.
(Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014; amd. Ord. 2019-02-04, 2-4-2019; Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-
5-2024)
10-3C-3: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE FOR PRIOR ZONES:
TABLE 5.1.B
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
         Minimum Open Maximum Maximum Net Minimum Site Maximum    Maximum
District Space Ratio  Gross   Density     Area         Floor      Impervious
                      Density             (Sq. Ft.)    Area Ratio Surface Ratio
               Minimum    Maximum             Minimum   Maximum      Maximum
District       Open Space Gross   Maximum Net Site Area Floor        Impervious
               Ratio      Density Density     (Sq. Ft.) Area Ratio   Surface
                                                                     Ratio
R1                                                               
 Single-      0.00       0.92    0.92        40,000    0.15         n/a
  family
 Schools/     n/a        n/a     n/a         200,000   0.40         0.50
  medical
 All other    n/a        n/a     n/a         40,000    0.40         0.50
  uses
R2                                                               
 Conventional 0.10       1.57    1.75        10,000    0.40         0.60
SR1                                                              
 Single-      0.10       1.24    1.36        24,000    0.16         n/a
  family
 Cluster 1    0.40       1.28    2.32        10 acres  0.25         n/a
 Schools      n/a        n/a     n/a         200,000   0.25         0.50
  Parks,
 recreation,  n/a        n/a     n/a         n/a       0.05         0.15
  open land
 Other        n/a        n/a     n/a         200,000   0.20         0.50
  permitted
SR2                                                              
 Single-      0.10       1.80    2.11        15,000    0.25         n/a
  family
 Cluster 1    0.30       1.82    2.90        10 acres  0.28         n/a
                                                        See section
  Planned                                               10-3C-5,
 development  0.40       1.90    3.70        10 acres  table 5.3.B  n/a
                                                        of this
                                                        article
 Schools      n/a        n/a     n/a         200,000   0.25         0.25
  Parks,
 recreation,  n/a        n/a     n/a         n/a       0.25         0.15
  open land
 Other        n/a        n/a     n/a         80,000    0.20         0.50
  permitted
SR3                                                              
 Single-      0.10       2.29    2.54        12,000    0.25         n/a
  family
                                                        See section
  Planned                                               10-3C-5,
 development  0.40       2.40    5.00        5 acres   table 5.3.B  n/a
                                                        of this
                                                        article
 Schools      n/a        n/a     n/a         200,000   0.30         0.40
  Parks,
 recreation,  n/a        n/a     n/a         n/a       0.05         0.15
  open land
 Other        n/a        n/a     n/a         40,000    0.25         0.60
  permitted
SR4                                                              
                                                        See village
                                                        single-
  Single-                                               family,
 family       1.10       3.10    3.45        8,000     section 10-  n/a
                                                        3C-5, table
                                                        5.3.B of
                                                        this article
                                                        See section
  Planned                                               10-3C-5,
 development  0.40       3.20    7.90        2 acres   table 5.3.B  n/a
                                                        of this
                                                        article
 Schools      n/a        n/a     n/a         200,000   0.30         0.60
  Parks,
 recreation,  n/a        n/a     n/a         n/a       0.10         0.30
  open land
 Other        n/a        n/a     n/a         20,000    0.25         0.60
  permitted
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2021-09-01, 9-20-2021)
10-3C-4: LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REQUIREMENTS TABLE FOR PRIOR ZONES:
TABLE 5.2
LOT AREA, YARD AND BULK REQUIREMENTS
         Lot Size   Yard Setbacks (Min.)                  Lot Mix  Bulk Requirement
         (Min.)                                           (Min.)   (Max.)
                                Side                               Principal Accessory
         Lot  Lot   Front  Rear Yards  Abuts       Garage Averaged Building  Building
District Area Width Yard   Yard Total/ Residential Front  Lot Mix  Height    Height
                    (Avg.)      Single Zone        Load            Feet/     Feet/
                                                                   Stories   Stories
          Lot Size      Yard Setbacks (Min.)                  Lot Mix  Bulk Requirement
          (Min.)                                              (Min.)   (Max.)
                                    Side                               Principal Accessory
          Lot     Lot   Front  Rear Yards  Abuts       Garage Averaged Building  Building
District  Area    Width Yard   Yard Total/ Residential Front  Lot Mix  Height    Height
                        (Avg.)      Single Zone        Load            Feet/     Feet/
                                                                       Stories   Stories
R1                                                                       
Single-   40,000  130   50     100  30/15  -           -      -        35/2.5    15
family
Health-                             200/
medical   200,000 300   75     100  100    -           -      -        50/3.0    20/1.0
use
R2                                                                        
Single-   10,000  60    30     50   20/7   -           40     n/a      35        15
family
Any
permitted 200,000 300   30     19   48/19  -           -      -        50/3.0    20/1.0
school
Health-                             200/
medical   200,000 300   75     100  100    -           -      -        50/3.0    20/1.0
use
Other     80,000  190   30     19   48/19  -           -      -        50/3.0    20/1.0
permitted
SR1                                                                       
Single-   28,000  140   40     75   34/10  -           50     -        35        15
family    24,000  120   40     75   32/10  -           50     50%      35        15
          20,000  100   40     75   30/10  -           50     10%      35        15
          15,000  100   30     50   22/8   -           40     -        35        15
Cluster   13,500  90    30     50   20/8   -           40     50%      35        15
          12,000  80    30     50   18/8   -           40     10%      35        15
SR2                                                                       
Single-   16,575  105   30     50   22/8   -           40     -        35        15
family    15,000  95    30     50   20/8   -           40     50%      35        15
          13,420  85    30     50   18/8   -           40     10%      35        15
          12,000  95    25     40   22/7   -           30     -        35        15
Cluster   11,000  85    25     40   20/7   -           30     50%      35        15
          10,000  75    25     40   18/7   -           30     10%      35        15
SR3                                                                       
Single-   13,330  100   25     45   22/7   -           30     -        35        15
family    12,000  90    25     45   20/7   -           30     50%      35        15
          10,640  80    25     45   18/7   -           30     10%      35        15
          See section
SR4       10-3C-5, table 5.3.B, "Lot Area, Yard, Lot Mix And Bulk Requirements For Planned
          Developments And SR4 Single- Family", of this article
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2021-09-01, 9-20-2021)
10-3C-5: LOT AREA, YARD, LOT MIX AND BULK REQUIREMENTS TABLE FOR PLANNED
DEVELOPMENTS AND SR4 DISTRICT:
TABLE 5.3.B
LOT AREA, YARD, LOT MIX AND BULK REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS AND SR4
SINGLE-FAMILY
        Min. Lot Size  Min. Yard Setbacks             Lot Max. Bulk Standards
                                                      Mix
        Lot Area       Street  Rear    Side    Garage     Principal Accessory
Housing Per      Lot   Yard    Yard    Yard    Front/ Mix Building  Building
Type    Dwelling Width Setback Setback Single/ Side       Height    Height
        Unit                           Total   Load
           Min. Lot Size  Min. Yard Setbacks             Lot Max. Bulk Standards
                                                         Mix
           Lot Area       Street  Rear    Side    Garage     Principal Accessory
Housing    Per      Lot   Yard    Yard    Yard    Front/ Mix Building  Building
Type       Dwelling Width Setback Setback Single/ Side       Height    Height
           Unit                           Total   Load
Single-                                                         
family:
Single-    11,200   95    25      40      6/20    30     28% 35        15
family     10,000   85    25      40      6/18    30     28% 35        15
           8,850    75    25      40      6/16    30     28% 35        15
Village    8,850    83    15      40      3/15    30     28% 32        15
single-    8,000    75    15      40      3/14    28     28% 32        15
family     7,140    67    15      40      3/12    28     28% 32        15
Patio      5,000    60    10      10      0/10    20     n/a 22        Prohibited
Attached
single-                                                         
family:
Twin       4,500    45    15      n/a     5/5     25/10  n/a 32        15
           per du
Atrium     2,500    40    0       0       0       0      n/a 15        15
Weak link  2,800    32    20      10      0       20     n/a 35        15
townhouse
Townhouse  2,200    24    20      10      0       20     n/a 35        15
Multi-                                                          
family:
Multiplex  2,000    80    20      15      8/16    5      n/a 35        15
           per du
Apartment, 1,800    80    20      15      8/16    5      n/a 35        15
two-story  per du
Apartment, 1,600
three-     per du   100   20      15      10/20   5      n/a 40        15
story
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
ARTICLE D. VC-O VILLAGE CENTER OVERLAY
SECTION:
10-3D-1: Purpose; Boundary
10-3D-2: Objectives
10-3D-1: PURPOSE; BOUNDARY:
   A.   The village center overlay district is hereby established to ensure
that development in the village center of Lake Villa reflects an integrated,
pedestrian oriented, mixed use character. The VC-O regulations are also
intended to preserve and enhance the appearance of the village's gateway road
corridors that provide primary vehicle access into the village center area.
Inclusion of this area within the village center overlay zone will allow for
phased expansion of the downtown as properties on the periphery of the downtown
core redevelop over time. Within the village center overlay district, buildings
are required to be oriented toward the sidewalk and pedestrian connections must
be provided between individual sites, the Metra train station, and adjoining
residential neighborhoods. Buildings and structures within the village center
overlay district shall conform to the architectural design standards in article
E of this chapter.
   B.   The boundary of the village center overlay zone is delineated in figure
10-3D-1 of this section.
   FIGURE 10-3D-1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1794.jpg]
(Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-3D-2: OBJECTIVES:
The objectives of the village center overlay district include the following:
   A.   To maintain the traditional scale and character of the downtown core
and ensure compatible, integrated redevelopment of properties on its periphery
and along the gateway corridors of Grand Avenue and Route 83.
   B.   To develop the village center as a diverse mixed use environment where
residents and commuters live, work and shop.
   C.   To establish a pedestrian friendly environment within the village
center with direct connections to businesses, the Metra station, public
facilities, and surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   D.   To encourage preservation and rehabilitation of buildings with
architectural and historic interest.
   E.   To ensure that new construction is compatible with traditional
development patterns and building design within the downtown core and
surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   F.   To create an adequate supply of parking that is located to the rear and
side of buildings, and screened from adjoining properties and the public right
of way.
   G.   To require construction of attractive pedestrian amenities and site
design elements that unifies and enhances the various parts of the village
center. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
ARTICLE E. ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3E-1: Purpose
10-3E-2: Objectives
10-3E-3: Scoring And Review System Established For Determining Compliance With
Architectural Design Standards
10-3E-4: Architectural Design Standards For Commercial, Retail, And Office
Buildings And Structures
10-3E-5: Architectural Design Standards For Single-Family Residential Buildings
And Structures
10-3E-6: Architectural Design Standards For The Village Center Overlay District
10-3E-7: Architectural Design Standards For Multi-Family Buildings And
Structures, Including Apartments, Condominiums, Townhomes, Row Homes, And
Linear Multi-Family Configurations
10-3E-1: PURPOSE:
The following architectural design standards as set forth in this article are
intended to provide standards for the renovation of existing buildings and
structures and for the new construction of buildings and structures in order to
provide a cohesive architectural style, harmony, and compatibility for each
zoning district. All new construction and renovation of buildings and
structures in each zoning district shall meet the respective architectural
design standards as described in the section applicable to that zoning district
where the building or structure is or will be located. These standards are
intended to assist in creating viable and attractive properties, by
establishing a baseline of architectural design appropriateness and
establishing architecturally harmonious environments.
For the purposes of this article, the term "facade" shall mean all of the
exterior elevations of a building or other structure. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-
2017)
10-3E-2: OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The objectives of the architectural design standards include the
following:
      1.   To maintain the traditional scale and character of the downtown core
and ensure compatible, integrated redevelopment of properties on its periphery
and along the gateway corridors of Grand Avenue and Route 83.
      2.   To create a cohesive architectural style for all commercial,
industrial, office, multi-family and single-family buildings and structures.
      3.   To establish clear standards to be followed related to the
architectural design of all buildings and structures.
      4.   To establish the type of project(s) to which these design standards
shall apply.
      5.   To establish a scoring system which shall be used to review and
evaluate the extent of compliance with these design standards as they relate to
particular project(s).
   B.   Design goals include improving:
      1.   Pedestrian and vehicular streetscapes.
      2.   Visibility of appropriate business activities.
      3.   Harmonious design of major commercial developments throughout the
village.
      4.   Landscape screening and buffering. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-3E-3: SCORING AND REVIEW SYSTEM ESTABLISHED FOR DETERMINING COMPLIANCE WITH
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
The zoning officer is authorized to develop, in consultation with an architect
retained by the village, a scoring sheet (sometimes referred to herein as the
"review outline for minimum compliance") which shall be used by the zoning
officer to evaluate the compliance of proposed new construction and/or
renovation of buildings and structures with the architectural design standards
established in this article.
These standards are to be used in conjunction with the zoning officer's review
outline for minimum compliance, which establishes a minimum required threshold
of compliance with these architectural design standards by rating each
component of a proposed project with its compliance with the applicable
architectural design standards established herein and then totaling such
ratings in the form of a pass/fail grading requirement. Such evaluation and
scoring process shall require each project to achieve a compliance score with
not less than eighty percent (80%) of the applicable architectural design
standards provided by this article. The zoning officer shall be further
authorized to revise and/or update such scoring sheet from time to time
consistent with the provisions of this article, as amended from time to time.
By way of example, for the purpose of scoring to measure compliance with these
architectural design standards, where a standard says a particular
characteristic is to be "avoided" or "discouraged", a point is achieved in the
scoring process if such an architectural characteristic is not present, and no
point is achieved if that characteristic is present. Similarly, if a particular
architectural feature is "encouraged" by these standards, a point in the
scoring process is achieved if the feature is present, and no point is achieved
if such a feature is not present. Some specific architectural characteristics
set forth in these design standards are considered to be more significant than
others in their impact on the appearance of a building and other structures
and, therefore, a two (2) point value ("priority points") will be assigned to
give greater weight to such specific characteristics when they are achieved.
(Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-3E-4: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL, RETAIL, AND OFFICE
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Applicability And Standards: The construction and/or renovation of all
buildings and other structures located or to be located in the village's
commercial, retail and office zoning districts (CR, CB, SB, LI, and LI-2) shall
adhere to the following architectural design standards:
      1.   Applicability: All work related to the construction and/or
renovation of buildings and structures located or to be located in the CR, CB,
SB, LI, and LI-2 zoning districts that requires a building permit for any
substantial exterior renovation of an existing building or structure or for the
construction of a new building or structure after adoption of these
architectural design standards shall be subject to the scoring and review
process in section 10-3E-3 of this article and the architectural design
standards in subsection A2 of this section. Compliance with the standards set
forth in this section is required for all commercial, retail and office
buildings and structures, including, but not limited to, the upper stories of
office developments over commercial uses.
      2.   Architectural Design Standards For Buildings And Structures Located
In The Village's CR, CB, SB, LI, And LI-2 Zoning Districts: Standards are
subdivided into ten (10) parts designed to address major elements of building
facades:
         a.   General facade design concepts.
         b.   Exterior building materials.
         c.   Exterior material colors.
         d.   Building features and details.
         e.   Attached structures and appendices.
         f.   Fenestration, windows and glazing.
         g.   Sign compatibility.
         h.   Building lighting.
         i.   Building system screening.
         j.   Building/site screening, landscaping and design.
   B.   General Facade Design Concepts:
      1.   The incorporation of consistent architectural style is required on
all facades of a building. The architectural style chosen shall be consistent
with the highest quality styles of architecture found throughout the village
and compatible with the neighborhood in which the building or structure is
located (2 points).
      2.   Architectural features and treatments shall be consistent with the
architectural style chosen on the street side, but with a significant
continuation of materials, colors, detail and trim on the remaining sides and
rear facades. The level of intensity of features and treatments shall be a
minimum of forty percent (40%) on the sides and rear facades and shall be
consistent with the architectural style chosen (2 points).
      3.   Continuity of architectural features and treatments throughout
building facades and throughout a development shall be required.
      4.   Continuity of horizontal architectural elements, between components
of a building on all facades, shall be required.
      5.   Building vertical elements shall be consistent throughout all
building facades and shall be compatible with adjacent buildings (2 points).
      6.   Building presence, from the street, shall be given priority as an
important component of facade design.
      7.   Maintenance of distinction between the upper floors and first floor
facades shall be required on all facades of office type buildings.
      8.   Rhythm of ground floor architectural features shall harmonize with
rhythm of upper stories.
      9.   Maintenance of consistency in building widths, in an architectural
block of buildings or in a single development shall be required.
      10.   The first floor shall retain a largely transparent character, while
the upper story(ies) shall have a more solid quality to facade fenestration.
      11.   Individual building units shall be clearly defined through use of
such elements as pillars, piers, material changes, separation of glass, and/or
awnings.
      12.   The scale, proportions, massing, articulation and design features
of the front facade of buildings shall enhance the pedestrian and vehicular
experience, emphasizing the human scale.
      13.   Facade components that incorporate such traditional design elements
as cornices, transoms, friezes, bulkheads, window bases, and window head
moldings are appropriate and required for buildings.
      14.   Architectural features and applied moldings help to break up the
monotony resulting from uninterrupted walls. This type of treatment on plain
walls shall be required on all facades (2 points).
      15.   Consider the directional expression of adjacent buildings. Building
design may give a predominantly vertical, horizontal or nondirectional
expression to a building facade. The directional expression of buildings shall
complement that of adjacent buildings.
      16.   Building facade heights shall vary with each component of a
building. For example, office component wall heights shall vary from that of
the warehouse.
      17.   Long, uninterrupted wall or roof planes shall be avoided, unless
consistent with the architectural style chosen.
      18.   Offsets, within the form of buildings, are encouraged as features
that minimize the bulky look of a block shaped building.
      19.   Transparent facade design (generally, a 50 percent minimum) is
required to increase visibility of business activity from the sidewalk and
street at site locations (see subsection G, "Fenestration, Glazing And
Windows", of this section for the specific required percentages of
fenestration).
      20.   Building windows shall be relatively consistent in height and
design and consistent with front facade doors to create a cohesive appearance
for each building. Building window base heights shall be consistent with
adjacent facades within, and adjacent to, a development.
      21.   Horizontal building detailing including, but not limited to, sills,
headers, transoms, cornices, and signage bands, shall be consistent in design,
coordinated and compatible with one another.
      22.   Sign bands, such as a horizontal band at the top of each building's
first floor, shall serve as the appropriate location for business signage and
help unify a development site. Signage shall be consistent in type, size and
color theme, and all signage shall comply with the village's sign regulations
which are part of this zoning ordinance, as amended from time to time, which
sign regulations shall control and prevail.
      23.   Articulated roof edges, clearly defined with significant detail and
with reinforced horizontal lines are a required facade element.
      24.   Facades and roofing that can be seen by the public shall be of long
life, easily maintained, and of natural materials.
      25.   Overpowering architectural features should only be used when they
reflect the appropriate and accurate architectural style of the project and as
long as the materials, construction and the design enhance the overall building
structure. This type of feature is not allowed if inappropriate or out of
scale.
      26.   Design buildings with roof forms of hipped, gable, gambrel or other
appropriate roof components. Flat roofed structures are encouraged only if
appropriate for the architectural style.
      27.   Monotony should be avoided in facade design. The roofline at the
top of a structure shall incorporate offsets, jogs, and/or architectural
features and components for enhanced interest (2 points).
      28.   Standing seam and batten seam metal roof systems, as principal
roof/wall elements, are limited to accents.
      29.   Primary entrances shall be located at the front of the building,
unless off street parking dictates otherwise, and should be recessed or have
prominent architectural features.
      30.   Locate the major facade and/or major entrance of a building on the
side facing the primary pedestrian or vehicular access, unless dictated by off
street parking.
      31.   Principal entryways shall be enhanced by features outlined in
subsection F of this section.
      32.   One principal entry for each building component is encouraged. If
location of parking creates the need, multiple entries may be included.
Subsection B33 of this section shall apply to all entries.
      33.   Doors, especially principal entryways, shall be emphasized using
awnings, canopies, pediments, or other appropriate design feature (2 points).
      34.   Multi-tenant office and retail buildings shall include variation in
architectural components, details and finishes in order to break up monotony
and prevent repetitiveness.
      35.   In a multi-tenant building, one principal entrance for each tenant
is encouraged. If the location of parking creates a need, multiple entries may
be included.
      36.   Buildings should be designed with foundations below grade. If any
foundation appears more than eight inches (8") above grade it should be
finished concrete, or veneered in an appropriate finish, consistent with other
facade finishes.
      37.   All precast wall or screen panels shall have pattern surface
features and shall be prefinished or stained or painted. Poured in place
concrete shall have patterns and detailed surface features and shall be stained
or painted. Panels with faux finish (i.e., brick/stone) are strongly
encouraged.
      38.   The relative proportions of building scale and mass of a building
consistent with neighboring existing buildings, to pedestrians and to other
buildings in the area shall be maintained for each new building in a
development.
      39.   The visual continuity of roofs, rooflines and roof shapes and their
contributing elements (i.e., parapet walls, coping, cornices, etc.) shall be
maintained in a building development on all facades.
      40.   Matching building facade designs may not be repeated within four
(4) lots of each other in any given subdivision, individual sites or a
subdivision (2 points).
      41.   Buildings facing public streets and public areas shall include
major front elevation design elements on those elevations facing public streets
or public areas, in order to enhance pedestrian and vehicular streetscapes (see
subsections E and F of this section) (2 points).
      42.   Single large building facade masses shall be avoided. Facades shall
be visually divided, by architectural features, into areas of seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet or less (2 points).
      43.   Facade wall components larger than seven hundred fifty (750) square
feet shall incorporate fascias, canopies, arcades, building offsets, column
features, banding reveals or other multidimensional design features to break up
single large elements.
      44.   Design small buildings (10,000 square feet, one- and two- story)
with roof forms of hipped, gable, gambrel or other appropriate roof components.
   C.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Exterior walls shall include a primary finish of natural facade
materials, i.e., natural wood, brick, architectural concrete, stone,
architectural surface concrete block, factory colored or field stained/painted,
or a combination of these materials (2 points).
      2.   The use of natural materials, such as wood, brick, stone, or
concrete, as the primary finish material, is required. Synthetic materials
shall be avoided unless its appearance is natural (2 points).
      3.   Traditional, time tested, easily maintained building facade
materials shall be required. Standing seam profiles and high tech architectural
sheet metal panels are prohibited, unless approved by the village (2 points).
      4.   Face brick, terra cotta, limestone, brownstone, lannon stone,
marble, granite, ashlar masonry, or similar materials, are recommended masonry
finishes. These may be required depending on architectural style chosen (2
points).
      5.   Wood walls of clapboard, board and batten, shiplap, shingle style or
other traditional wood siding shall be used with horizontal placement, or
placement typical to the traditional installation methodology, for buildings.
      6.   The use of concrete as a primary facade material shall only be
allowed if designed to include significant architectural feature, color and
texture, or faux finish.
      7.   The choice of materials shall relate in character with and be
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      8.   Facade design, materials, and execution should be of high quality
for all facades. Secondary facades (side or rear) should complement the primary
facade treatments and adhere to the principles of these architectural design
standards and the architectural style chosen and approved by the village for
the respective building or structure.
      9.   Exterior building materials shall be consistent and compatible on
all sides and elevations of a building or structure (2 points).
      10.   Roof coverings such as shadow line or profile asphalt shingle,
cedar shake, slate, or concrete tile roofing shall be considered on all pitched
roofs. Corrugated tin or aluminum or preformed metal and other tile roofs shall
not be considered appropriate for primary or dominant roof elements, for
buildings or office components of industrial buildings, unless approved by the
village.
      11.   Exposed framing of attached structures, unless integral to the
design and architectural style chosen, or designed as an exposed element (i.e.,
heavy timber or finished metal), shall not be allowed.
      12.   Materials and finishes used in attached structures shall be
consistent with and complementary to the architectural style of the principal
structure.
      13.   Suggested building accent materials include copper, aluminum, wood,
terne metal, accent stone, cultured stone, cut stone, accent stucco, accent
EIFS, formed concrete, and terra cotta. All other materials shall be submitted
to the village for approval. Material selection and finish should be durable,
long life and maintenance friendly.
      14.   The use of EIFS as a primary facade material shall not be allowed.
      15.   The use of EIFS as an accent material substitute for stucco shall
be allowed if designed to include significant architectural feature, color and
texture.
      16.   Wood selections shall be those that hold up to the Midwest climate,
i.e., cedar or redwood of a high grade and with appropriate finish, for
buildings (2 points).
      17.   Rooftop mechanical equipment, if it must be used, shall be
screened, with material complementary and consistent with building architecture
and roof design/finish (2 points).
      18.   Use of plain or decorative concrete block, applied faux brick,
vinyl, or aluminum siding, shall not be allowed as a primary or accent facade
material.
      19.   The use of neon or strip LED shall not be allowed as a decorative
exterior element of the facade or structure, or as an interior element shining
through facade glazing (2 points).
      20.   The use of plywood panels, i.e., T-111 or stucco panels, as a
primary or accent exterior finish material, shall not be allowed (2 points).
      21.   The use of batten or standing seam metal roofs, as a dominant
primary or accent roof or siding element, shall not be allowed, unless approved
by the village.
      22.   Material selection for building facades shall be compatible with
prevailing material already used on existing buildings in the area. No building
shall be permitted where any exposed facade is constructed or faced with a
finished material which is aesthetically incompatible with other building
facades in the area or which presents an unattractive appearance to public ways
and surrounding properties (2 points).
      23.   As new materials become available and/or are developed in the
market place, these materials may be allowed, upon approval of the village, for
their specific use, if consistent with the proposed architectural style.
      24.   Building elevations clad with a singular exterior surface material
shall provide additional architectural design element(s) to break up the plan
of the wall. This shall be accomplished with architectural design treatments,
and details consistent with the principal building design and with the
architectural style chosen.
      25.   Buildings shall be typically designed with foundations below grade.
Foundations more than eight inches (8") above grade shall be clad with an
architectural finish material, or designed to look like an architecturally
finished material.
      26.   Vinyl and/or aluminum siding, trim, details are prohibited (2
points).
      27.   Veneer faced plywood type sidings are prohibited (2 points).
      28.   Precast concrete panels that are untextured or unfinished are
prohibited.
      29.   Common brick and plain concrete block are prohibited (2 points).
      30.   Corrugated and preengineered metals with exposed fasteners are
prohibited (2 points).
   D.   Exterior Material Colors:
      1.   Reflect a color palette of well established local traditions, in all
building facade color selections. For new construction, and for any substantial
renovation of an existing building or structure, all color palettes shall
require the prior written approval of the village prior to the application
thereof on or to any building or structure (2 points).
      2.   The selection of building colors has significant aesthetic and
visual impact on building character and appearance. A color palette for each
building shall be submitted to the village for the village's prior written
approval (2 points).
      3.   New buildings or structures shall utilize the predominant and
appropriate colors and textures of surrounding buildings, and be compatible
with those building materials (2 points).
      4.   Attached structures and details shall use the building color
selection or a complementary color (2 points).
      5.   Detached structures should match the chosen color palette of the
principal building or structure (2 points).
      6.   Use of discordant, or harsh, nonharmonious color is not allowed (2
points).
      7.   Maximized color harmony within a development and between neighboring
buildings (within 50 feet) shall be required.
      8.   Exterior colors shall be compatible with existing adjacent
buildings.
      9.   Exterior color schemes shall be used consistently throughout a
property, and all of its structures, including both the upper and lower
portions of buildings, all sides of buildings, and on attached structures,
elements and details.
      10.   Color combination schemes shall be limited to no more than three
(3) different colors for an individual building or five (5) colors for all
structures in a development.
      11.   The limit of exterior colors should also be applied to attached
structures, features, details and signs.
      12.   No one color range dominates the village corridors and commercial
zones. Earth tones, including, but not limited to, browns, reds, beiges and
grays are appropriate for all proposed projects.
      13.   Colors used for the building accents should be earthy and neutral,
unless otherwise dictated by architectural style. Bright colors, used for
accents or for logos, shall be used sparingly, if at all, and will be subject
to village review and approval.
      14.   When used in door and window frames, reflective materials such as
aluminum shall be softened through the use of earth tone colors. Mullion colors
shall match the window frame colors.
      15.   Muted, natural tones shall be applied to all painted elements such
as windows, trim and cornices. Natural tones used shall complement the
principal building's facade colors.
      16.   Awning, canopy and attached structure colors shall blend with and
be compatible with building facade colors. Bright primary colors are not
allowed; however, attached structure trim accentuated with contrasting colors
shall be allowed if compatible with principal colors and used on a limited
basis.
      17.   Bright primary colors are not allowed for the primary facade
finishes. However, trim on the primary facade, accentuated with contrasting
colors, if approved by the village, may be allowed, on a limited basis.
      18.   For signs, a maximum of three (3) colors shall be used. Background
colors that match the building color, or neutral colors, are acceptable. A high
level of contrast between the sign message and background works well for
legibility.
      19.   Bright or overly colorful roofing materials shall not be allowed (2
points).
      20.   Color of trim, attached structures, details, and signs shall be
compatible with that of neighboring buildings' (within 50 feet) main facade,
attached structures, details and signs (2 points).
      21.   Windows and window frames/trim shall have an appropriate finish and
color to the architectural style, and be consistent with the overall color
scheme of the structure (2 points).
      22.   Window glass should be of a harmonious color (see subsection G12 of
this section) (2 points).
      23.   The color of the elements buffering mechanical ventilation,
building utility services, trash dumpsters, etc., shall be subdued, muted and
natural and shall harmonize with the principal building color or colors (2
points).
      24.   Secondary facade colors shall be coordinated and compatible with
color schemes of primary facades. Facade colors should be compatible and
consistent on all sides and level of the structure.
      25.   Facade colors shall be consistent and compatible on all sides and
levels of a building or a development of buildings.
      26.   The selection of building colors has a significant aesthetic and
visual impact upon the public way and neighboring properties, and colors chosen
shall be in general harmony with the existing area and neighborhood buildings
and shall require the prior written approval of the village.
   E.   Building Features And Details:
      1.   Tripartite architectural facades are required (i.e., base, wall
entablature).
      2.   The building base and entablature shall be consistent with
architectural style, feature and detail.
      3.   Ornate building silhouette, or top of wall features, or profiles,
are required, unless inconsistent with the architectural style chosen.
      4.   To reduce the visual impact of large expansive walls, the raising or
lowering of the parapets and/or building offsets are required.
      5.   Masonry detailing such as rowlocks, soldiers, headers, plants,
copings, arches and ornate coursing details are required.
      6.   Major or common architectural elements to be incorporated in primary
building facades include window bases, pilasters, columns, friezes, cornices,
wall break details and window treatments/surrounds of buildings.
      7.   Accurate representation of defined architectural elements, details,
and style shall be required.
      8.   Pilasters, columns and other architectural features shall be
appropriate to the proposed architectural style and consistent throughout a
development.
      9.   Maintenance and coordination of appropriate cornice lines, with
respect to adjacent buildings, shall be required. Cornice lines shall be
compatible in detail, size, color, shape and elevation.
      10.   Cornice style shall match proposed architectural style of building
or building developments.
      11.   The "frieze" or "sign band" is the horizontal segment of the
building located above the display window and below the second floor windows,
facade trim, or building cornice. Friezes shall be consistent throughout a
development of buildings and appropriate for the proposed architectural style.
      12.   See subsection D, "Exterior Material Colors", of this section for
additional information regarding architectural features.
      13.   Generally accepted defined building features and details, when
combined with approved exterior finish materials and architectural styles, will
assist in forming the basis for architecturally harmonious environments for
office components of industrial zones. Incorporated features shall be located
in pattern, number, size, and detail to be compatible with proposed
architectural styles, for facade design, facade enhancement and new
development.
      14.   Building feature/detail material, color, and texture shall be
consistent with the finish materials and architectural style of the building (2
points).
      15.   Building elements, such as awnings, signs, doors, windows, and
lighting fixtures, shall complement each other and main building facade
finishes.
      16.   Building features/details shall be consistent within the front
exterior facade of the building. The level of detail may be less intense or
simulated on the sides, rear and upper levels of the building or development of
buildings. The level of intensity of detail shall be appropriate for the
architectural style selected.
   F.   Attached Structures And Appentices:
      1.   Use of awnings, canopies or other design features is required to
enhance front facades, if dictated by the architectural style selected, for
commercial/office or office components of industrial buildings.
      2.   Awnings, canopies and other design features shall be designed to add
depth to the building surface and accentuate entrances. They shall be of
appropriate color, and shall provide maximum weather protection to building
facades, for commercial/office or office components of industrial buildings.
      3.   When consistent with the architectural design, pilasters, awnings,
columns, cornices, canopies and other architectural features should be part of
the design elements included in building facades or as an accent feature on the
street side facade. Use of these design elements should respect the facade
framework.
      4.   Awnings and canopies shall be consistent in character, scale, color,
location and architectural style. The intensity of use shall be consistent with
the style chosen, for commercial/office or office components of industrial
buildings. Radius canopies shall not be allowed.
      5.   Awning and canopy locations shall respect the facade framework, for
commercial/office or office components of industrial buildings.
      6.   Awning and canopy size, color and placement shall complement the
architectural character of the building. Street side awnings and canopies
should be designed to add depth to the building and to accent window and door
treatments.
      7.   Soft, weather treated canvas or vinyl materials, which allow for
flexible or fixed installation, shall be used for awnings. Constructed
canopies, canopies built and fabricated as part of the facade of materials,
color and design consistent and compatible with the building architectural
style can also be used.
      8.   Awnings and canopies provide a secondary location for signage. All
signage shall comply with the village's sign regulations which are part of this
zoning ordinance, as amended from time to time, which sign regulations shall
control and prevail.
      9.   Awning and canopy signs shall be painted on or attached flat against
the surface of the structure as an integral element as opposed to an add on
feature.
      10.   Awning and canopy shapes shall relate to the facade's other
architectural elements. Curved or contemporary profiles are discouraged.
      11.   Awnings and canopies shall be integrated into and relate to the
scale of the building facade.
      12.   When proposing awnings, a palette of colors, materials and proposed
signage should be submitted to the village for specific approval.
      13.   Appropriate canopy or attached structure materials shall be
compatible and consistent with the principal building's architectural style
(see subsections C, "Exterior Building Materials", and F7 of this section).
      14.   Canopies, porticos, pediments and loggias are required to cover and
protect entrance, if dictated by the architectural style chosen. Zoning
ordinance setbacks, however, shall be adhered to.
      15.   The use of attached structures shall be consistent on all sides and
levels of a building, where appropriate.
      16.   Use of second floor balconies/porches, and decks for coverage of
sidewalks or as an attached element shall not be allowed.
      17.   Attached structures shall be compatible with and complement
adjacent structures.
   G.   Fenestration, Glazing And Windows:
      1.   Substantial amounts of glass create transparent street level facades
and are required at office components of industrial buildings.
      2.   Architecturally correct and original window characteristics and
styles shall be incorporated.
      3.   In general a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the first floor
street side facades shall be transparent.
      4.   First floor commercial retail establishments shall contain, at a
minimum, a sixty percent (60%) display window percentage based on an overall
primary facade dimension.
      5.   "Transparent" facades are not as necessary for some businesses, such
as professional offices, or office components of industrial buildings.
Fenestration should still be significant, minimum forty percent (40%) of facade
areas, shall be required.
      6.   When not considering energy, storage manufacturing or security
concerns, glass and windows should create the feeling of transparency at street
level offices.
      7.   Building windows shall not be obscured; clear windows are preferred
or appropriately tinted.
      8.   Clear glass is preferred for merchandizing windows.
      9.   Clear glass for windows and doors is suggested, though slightly
tinted glass for energy efficiency purposes may be used. Colors shall be grays,
blues, and bronze, nonreflective and nonmirrored. Nonstandard colors shall be
avoided.
      10.   The use of window mullions and frames to section large display
windows shall be required and shall be consistent with the architectural style
selected.
      11.   As a design feature, transom windows are an important element in
the proportion of taller facades. Transom windows are required to be consistent
with the architectural style chosen.
      12.   Windows shall be proportionate to the facade scale and in keeping
with architectural style of proposed buildings. All glass facades shall not be
allowed unless approved by the village, and consistent with the architectural
style selected.
      13.   Aluminum, steel, or vinyl cased wood windows, in appropriate style
and color, may be used for maintenance freedom.
      14.   The use of vinyl frame must be approved by the village for its
specific use.
      15.   Windows on all levels, if a multiple story building, are required.
They shall be properly spaced and proportioned in reference to the entire
building, unless approved by the village.
      16.   Nontransparent material, such as a glass block, is not appropriate
as fenestration, but may be used as an architectural element if appropriate to
the proposed style. They shall not, however, be a dominant feature. Spandrel
glass in curtain walls and windows is acceptable.
      17.   Plexiglas or other glass substitute materials shall not be allowed
as fenestration unless the product is necessary as part of a security measure,
or a newly developed product and approved by the village.
      18.   The use of energy efficient glass is required.
      19.   The use of small paned windows, unless characteristic of the
building's architectural style or original design is not appropriate.
      20.   Glass color will be in harmony with the colors used on the
building, and consistent with the architectural style selected.
      21.   Walls that do not have windows will be required to use berming and/
or landscaping of various types or sizes to break up the impact of a blank
wall. The use of building copings, wall ribbons, wall details and base designs
may also be required to minimize the visual impact of large blank walls.
      22.   Fenestration shall be required on all facades facing roads and
public ways in office components of industrial buildings. The number may be
reduced if alternative architectural features are provided.
      23.   The level of intensity of windows, frames and frame detailing shall
be consistent with the architectural style chosen.
   H.   Sign Compatibility:
      1.   All signage shall comply with the requirements of related Village
ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Village's sign regulations which
are part of this title, as may be amended from time to time, which sign
regulations shall control and prevail.
      2.   To prevent the creation of public safety hazards and to ensure that
such illumination does not interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent
properties, illumination of any neon, or xenon, or LED sign shall be limited to
that created by a transformer with a thirty (30) milliamp rating or equal. Neon
or xenon or LED signs shall be subject to the sign area limitations set forth
in subsection 10-6D-3F4d of this title. Neon, xenon, or LED lighting shall only
be permitted as part of a neon or xenon or LED sign as defined in this title
and shall not be permitted to be installed in a manner that accentuates or
draws attention to windows or other exterior features of the building or of
another structure such as when used as trim along building lines, eaves,
rooflines, windows, etc. Flashing neon or LED or xenon signs are not permitted.
   I.   Building Lighting:
      1.   All lighting shall comply with the applicable provisions of this
title and/or this Code, as amended from time to time, the provisions of which
shall prevail and control, including, but not limited to, subsection 4-1-2D,
"Offensive Lights", of this Code (2 points).
      2.   Site lighting, display window lights, architectural lighting, and
general area lighting are encouraged to identify the business, highlight
building features and entries, and to illuminate dark corners of the property
or street.
      3.   Exterior lighting shall highlight building elements, signs, or other
distinctive features rather than attract attention to the light fixture itself.
      4.   Exterior lighting shall be appropriate to the building's
architectural style. The scale and style of the light fixture shall be in
keeping with the facade design.
      5.   Exterior building lights shall coordinate with architectural details
of the building.
      6.   Exterior building lighting shall be coordinated and compatible with
lights of adjacent structures.
      7.   To minimize glare, lights shall be aimed up or down, not out. The
light source shall be minimized.
      8.   Indirect lighting shall be provided, whenever possible, for display
and architectural type lighting.
      9.   Building lighting shall provide an even illumination level. The use
of flashing, pulsating, or similar dynamic lighting is not allowed.
      10.   Lighting shall be provided at rear and emergency exits of
businesses to assist customers in locating the rear and other emergency exits
and for safety.
      11.   All lighting that must remain lit during night hours of operation
shall comply with the applicable provisions of this Code and/or this title, as
amended from time to time, the provisions of which shall control and prevail.
      12.   Light fixtures should be placed to avoid light glare on vehicular
traffic areas of pedestrian walkways.
      13.   Sconce type lighting shall be allowed if the light source is
completely obscured, and the fixture is in keeping with the proposed
architectural style.
      14.   Walkway lighting (bollard or decorative pole type) is encouraged,
if the light source is obscured and the fixture is in keeping with the proposed
architectural style.
      15.   Ground mounted building lighting shall be allowed if the light
source is completely obscured, and the fixtures are screened by landscaping.
      16.   Specific landscape materials should be highlighted via landscape
lighting, where possible.
      17.   All landscape lighting shall be concealed and secure from the
public.
      18.   Neon and xenon type fixtures or light sources are not allowed (2
points).
      19.   Proposed LED and message board signs shall be in accordance with
village ordinances.
      20.   See subsection H, "Sign Compatibility", of this section, for
addition lighting guidelines.
   J.   Building Systems:
      1.   A building's mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems shall be
completely concealed from view from all locations and ground level vistas (2
points).
      2.   Rooftop equipment shall be hidden by a screening device or roof
structures so as not to be visible from the street, sidewalk adjacent
properties or public ways (2 points).
      3.   Rooftop screening shall be consistent with the shape and profile of
the principal roof structure. Screening that appears "box" shaped shall not be
allowed (2 points).
      4.   Rooftop screens shall be of architectural features and materials
coordinated and compatible with building architecture and color (2 points).
      5.   Screening can be fencing, architectural features and/or appropriate
landscaping.
      6.   Batten seam, standing seam and corrugated metal roof systems shall
be allowed as screens only if they are not a dominant architectural feature and
they are complementary to building architectural style and detail.
      7.   Ground equipment screens shall be of architectural features and
materials coordinated and compatible with building architecture and color.
      8.   Solid evergreen (i.e., arborvitae) landscape screening or a
combination of earth berming and evergreens shall be an acceptable method of
ground equipment screening provided plantings are selected for appropriate
climate and installation environment (i.e., salt tolerant) and do not create
security concerns.
      9.   Accessory structure screening (i.e., water towers, tanks, process
equipment, cooling towers, chillers, vent hoods, communication equipment,
alternative power equipment, etc.) shall be compatible with primary building
facade architectural style, finish and detail.
   K.   Building/Site Screening, Landscaping And Design:
      1.   All landscaping shall be installed and maintained in substantial
compliance with the applicable provisions of this zoning ordinance and/or this
code, as amended from time to time, the provisions of which shall control and
prevail. The intended landscape theme for individual site design is best
described as a modified restoration of the native Illinois landscape. There
will be a heavy emphasis on conservation and natural treatment of the landscape
with dramatic enhancement in high visibility areas (2 points).
      2.   The main goals for landscaping within the development include:
         a.   Maintaining a high level of aesthetics using quality plant
materials arranged in strong, colorful plant groupings and ensuring proper and
consistent maintenance.
         b.   Creating a sustainable landscape emphasizing the use of BMPs,
native and noninvasive materials, using controlled irrigation and drought
tolerant plantings, and encouraging natural stormwater management through
utilization of grass filters and minimized catch basin/piping systems.
         c.   Incorporating key design principles (e.g., site orientation,
landscape layout, site grading) to frame and enhance architecture, to create
seasonal interest and to provide screening where necessary.
      3.   All plant materials shall be selected from a planting list
specifying the plant sizes and species approved in advance by the village board
or by the village administrator (2 points).
      4.   The following planning standards have been developed for site
landscape design:
         a.   Foundation Landscaping: A minimum of ten feet (10') of landscaped
area shall be provided around seventy five percent (75%) of all principal
building foundations, excluding areas used for loading, entries and/or service
areas.
         b.   Best Management Practices (BMPs): Natural stormwater management
will be encouraged through use of bioswales and minimized catch basin piping
systems. LEEDs will be encouraged as part of the approach to design.
         c.   Parking And Circulation:
            (1)   Parking lots shall be located to provide easy pedestrian
circulation to the buildings they serve and to minimize visual impacts to
adjacent properties.
            (2)   Service areas shall be located to provide easy access to
adjacent streets. Public vehicular transportation should not route through
service drives unless adequate provision has been made to the driveway width to
ensure safety.
            (3)   When major buildings are clustered around connecting parking
lots, sidewalks will be provided to connect the parking modules, and when the
configuration makes it difficult for pedestrians to safely access from building
to building, a clearly defined pedestrian pathway will connect them.
            (4)   All parking areas that have more than ninety (90) spaces will
feature:
               (A)   Major circulation drives with little or no parking
(usually adjacent to the structure it serves and for pick up areas). Minimum
circulation drive shall be thirty feet (30') wide not including parking or pick
up drive.
               (B)   Parking aisles with parking access, minimum twenty four
feet (24') wide.
               (C)   Passenger pick up and drop off areas, where incorporated,
shall be designed so as to not interfere with traffic circulation and provide
adequate space for safe loading or unloading of passengers.
         d.   Parking Lot Landscaping:
            (1)   Wherever possible, the design of large parking lots should
include landscape islands of significant size (324 square feet minimum) to
control traffic and break up large expanses of pavement. A minimum green area
of five percent (5%) shall be provided within all parking lots containing fifty
(50) or more cars.
            (2)   Landscaped islands within parking lots shall contain native
or adaptive trees, underplanted with native shrubs, grasses and/or perennials.
All plant materials shall be selected from a planting list specifying the plant
sizes and species approved in advance by the village board or by the village
administrator.
            (3)   Earthen berms shall be encouraged to screen parking lots from
street views.
            (4)   All parking lot landscaping shall be placed to prevent any
visual sight line encumbrances in accordance with village ordinances.
         e.   Shared Parking: Shared parking is the use of parking spaces to
serve two (2) or more individual land uses without conflict. The goal of a
shared parking analysis is to find the balance between providing adequate
parking to support a mix of uses within a development and minimizing the
negative aspects of excessive land area dedicated to pavement. Shared parking
may be allowed in office areas.
         f.   Landscape Screening:
            (1)   Building mechanical systems located at ground level shall be
concealed via planting, berming or other means. Mechanical equipment located on
exterior walls shall be adequately screened by landscaping or trellising.
            (2)   Loading shall be located so as to minimize visibility from
public or private streets. Loading areas shall be properly screened with
landscaping and berming to provide for year round screening when exposed to a
public street.
            (3)   Earthen berms or other means shall be required to screen
loading areas from street views. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-3E-5: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Applicability And Standards: Except as otherwise provided herein, all
buildings and structures located in Single-Family Residential Zoning Districts
(UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4, R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, and SR4) or located in any
single-family development constructed on or after the effective date of the
adoption of these Architectural Design Standards and located within the VC-
O Village Center Overlay District shall adhere to the following Architectural
Design Standards:
      1.   Applicability: All work related to the construction and/or
substantial exterior renovation of single-family homes and/or any related
accessory structure(s) located or to be located in the UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A,
UR4, R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, and SR4 Zoning Districts or located or to be
located within the VC-O Village Center Overlay District that requires a
building permit, including, but not limited to, siding replacement, fence
replacements, and home additions, if the building permit is approved or the
subdivision where the home is located is platted after adoption of these
Architectural Design Standards shall be subject to the scoring and review
standards in section 10-3E-3 of this article and the Architectural Design
Standards in subsection A2 of this section.
All existing single-family homes and/or any related accessory structure(s)
located in the UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4, R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, and SR4 Zoning
Districts constructed prior to the effective date of the adoption of these
Architectural Design Standards shall not be required to comply with these
standards, provided, however, all additions shall be constructed with the
elevations, materials and colors consistent with the principal structure.
Related accessory structure(s) constructed on property located in the UR1, UR2,
UR3, UR3A, UR4, R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, and SR4 Zoning Districts with a single-
family home constructed prior to the effective date of the adoption of these
Architectural Design Standards shall be constructed with similar colors,
materials and design elements of the existing single-family home located on
that property. These related accessory structures shall not need to comply with
any other provision of this section.
The Architectural Design Standards hereby established in this section are
intended to encourage new construction and renovation of existing buildings and
structures in the Village to reflect and reinforce the quality of design and
craftsmanship that can be seen in many of the area's historic residential
neighborhoods. Traditional architectural styles found in this and surrounding
communities include, but are not limited to, craftsman, prairie/four square,
farmhouse, Victorian, Georgian, classical, Tudor, shingle, Cape Cod, arts and
crafts, and other styles that recognize a traditional midwestern vernacular. By
respecting the Village's architectural heritage, new residential construction
can enhance the Village's sense of place.
      2.   Architectural Design Standards For Single-Family Residential
Buildings And Structures Located In The Village's UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4, R1,
R2, SR1, SR2, SR3 And SR4 Zoning Districts: Standards are subdivided into the
following parts designed to address major elements of building facades:
         a.   Design standards for single-family homes and related accessory
structures.
         b.   Elevations.
         c.   Scale and massing.
         d.   Exterior materials and finishes.
         e.   Exterior colors.
         f.   Rear elevation controls.
         g.   Front entry, service, patio and garage doors.
         h.   Roof accessories, gutters and downspouts.
         i.   Chimneys.
         j.   Fencing.
         k.   Building and yard lighting.
         l.   Decks, porches and balconies.
         m.   Landscaping and design.
The Architectural Design Standards for single-family residential buildings and
related accessory structures hereby established are intended to assist the
Village, in coordination with developers and builders, in successfully planning
and executing appropriate architectural design for the residential
neighborhoods in the Village. Taken together, the resulting architectural
variety will lead to the creation of unique neighborhoods that utilize
attractive, complementary designs derived from a combination of architectural
elements which include diversity in materials, articulation of facades, rich
colors, and an orientation to pedestrians and the streetscape, all of which
reflect the goals and visions of the Village.
      3.   Exception: Notwithstanding anything contained in subsections A1 and/
or A2 of this section to the contrary, for the purposes of this section, a
related accessory structure shall not include an accessory structure which is
related to the single-family residence on the lot or parcel in question and
which occupies one hundred sixty nine (169) square feet or less of ground
surface area, the calculation of which ground surface area shall be based upon
the two (2) greatest horizontal dimensions of such structure and further
provided that no horizontal dimensions of such structure shall exceed thirteen
feet (13') and no vertical dimensions shall exceed ten feet (10').
   B.   Design Standards For Single-Family Homes:
      1.   Roof Overhangs: Roofs shall have eaves that extend at least twelve
inches (12") beyond the plane of the exterior wall. This standard may be waived
only when the building strictly adheres to a historical architectural style
that does not include eaves, as confirmed by the latest edition of "A Field
Guide to American Houses". Roof overhangs, as described in this subsection
shall be a requirement of all new homes and shall not proceed with a review of
the architectural standards unless the requirements of this subsection are met.
      2.   Architectural Styles: It is the goal of the Village to encourage a
variety of traditional and well recognized architectural styles, which
deemphasize the garage in creative ways and add value to the community through
good planning and design. Alternate elevations shall be distinctive and varied
to avoid monotony. The builder and architect are required to utilize the
following architectural guidelines, standards and techniques in the creation of
various residential housing products and styles, and in the development of
neighborhood concepts (2 points).
      3.   Traditional Styles: While single-family dwellings in the Village are
not restricted to a particular style, it is encouraged that a traditional
character be established and maintained which is consistent with recognized
traditional styles and midwest vernacular. Styles shall be reasonably
consistent throughout all facades of a structure (2 points). (Ord. 2019-02-01,
2-4-2019)
   C.   Elevations:
      1.   Garage Entrances: To create diversity and individuality throughout
the neighborhood, and to comply with antimonotony standards, it is critical
that a variety of styles and color packages be provided for homes in proximity
to one another. It is required that ten percent (10%) of the garages be side
loaded or rear loaded. These alternate garage entrance locations shall be
incorporated in the project design where practical including, but not limited
to, residences located on corner lots. It is envisioned that these standards
relative to garage design, along with conventional front loaded garages, will
provide aesthetically pleasing streetscape diversity to the community (2
points).
      2.   Garage Elevations: Alternate garage elevations such as split garages
and recessed front load garages, as well as a blend of single and double garage
doors are encouraged.
      3.   Minimum Requirements For New Construction (2 Points):
         a.   Minimum of three (3) elevation themes for each plan type.
         b.   Minimum of three (3) color packages, with no matching colors side
by side or directly across.
         c.   No similar elevation design will repeat within two hundred feet
(200') on the same or opposite side of the street.
         d.   Elevations will be considered dissimilar when they exhibit
significant changes of the following elements:
            (1)   Roof forms.
            (2)   Window patterns.
            (3)   Massing.
            (4)   Porch/entry conditions.
            (5)   Material allocations.
            (6)   Architectural style.
   D.   Scale And Massing:
      1.   Design consideration must be given to the relationship of
architectural massing and the scale of building elements in all single-family
neighborhoods. The incorporation of second story dormer, porch entries, usable
covered porches, bay windows and other residentially scaled elements, attached
structures and appendices, is critical to reduce the frontal mass and impact of
the homes. A strong expression of entry and a forward orientation of the front
door are encouraged.
      2.   When terrain requires a walkout, or stepped grade condition,
exterior wall finishes should "step" down with grade, with each "step"
beginning eight inches (8") above finished grade. Long expanses of exposed
concrete walls shall be avoided.
         a.   Design Considerations:
            (1)   Mass of dwellings shall be scaled down through varying roof
heights, styles and shapes.
            (2)   Appropriate sense of scale and balance, within a structure's
components and with adjacent structures.
            (3)   Architectural elements such as dormer, bay window projections
and dominant entry elements.
            (4)   Exterior wall finishes that follow slopes in grade.
            (5)   Deemphasis of two (2) or three (3) car garage elements, by
setting back the garage plane, rotating entrance orientation, or softening the
heavy mass with appropriate architectural consideration, design and detail.
            (6)   Residential setbacks are referenced in section 10-3C-2, table
2 of this chapter for single-family residential zoning districts.
            (7)   Scale and massing shall be consistent with the architectural
style chosen.
            (8)   Scale and massing consistent to a reasonable degree on all
facades of a structure.
   E.   Exterior Materials And Finishes:
      1.   Materials And Trim: Materials and trim selections must take into
account the nature of the individual home styles and be reflective of their
traditional appearance and prominence in the neighborhoods (2 points).
      2.   Natural Materials Required; Manmade Materials Acceptable: It is
required that portions of front elevations incorporate the use of natural
materials such as wood siding, brick and stone. Manmade materials including
synthetic stucco, fiber cement siding and vinyl siding shall be acceptable as
elements provided that portion of elevations include natural materials of wood
trim and/or accents. Synthetic stucco shall be limited in use to a secondary
element or accent, unless designed to effectively appear as a brick or stone
material (2 points).
      3.   Styled Elevation Enhancements: Corner boards, window and door trims,
shutters, band boards, and moldings shall be used to differentiate and enhance
each individual styled elevation. Entries shall be oriented to the street, and
shall receive additional emphasis and detail. Flush rakes and long expanses of
flat wall planes without detail are not allowed. Gutters, downspouts and splash
blocks are required and shall be included with each elevation design, in a
style compatible with the architecture of the structure.
      4.   Minimum Requirements:
         a.   Corner boards, trim and door/window surrounds on all facades
(natural material).
         b.   Side and rear facades shall incorporate at least one natural
material used on the front facade, covering at least twenty percent (20%) of
the surface.
         c.   Side elevations, fully exposed to or partially fronting on public
ways or ROW (i.e., corner side yard), shall include the same design materials
and level of detail used on the front facade.
         d.   Rear elevations (see subsection G, "Rear Elevation Controls", of
this section).
   F.   Exterior Colors:
      1.   Factors: Color packages shall be developed with consideration for
variety and compatibility within each neighborhood as well as throughout the
entire community. Colors shall be consistent with traditional village and
Midwest vernacular. Colors shall be compatible with surrounding existing
neighborhoods. For new construction, and for any substantial renovation of an
existing building or structure, all color palettes shall require the prior
written approval of the village prior to the application thereof on or to any
building or structure (2 points).
      2.   Minimum Requirements (2 points):
         a.   Approved color schemes shall feature a harmonious range of color
blends and shading.
         b.   Primary surfaces shall be of earth tones and muted color unless
dictated by the architectural style.
         c.   Secondary surface areas shall range from off whites to light
browns and light warm grays.
         d.   Complementary trim and siding colors with slight variations in
contrast.
         e.   Subtle third color accents, in traditional colors, appropriate
for the style chosen.
   G.   Rear Elevation Controls:
      1.   In neighborhoods that back up to significant community roadways, or
rights of way, common areas, access easements, parks and public land, it is the
intent to provide an appearance control for the rear and side elevations of
homes. On those identified lots, the following techniques shall be incorporated
onto rear elevations:
         a.   Significant plane breaks (equal to or greater than 8 inches in
depth). Cantilevers are an acceptable technique.
         b.   Projected box bay windows.
         c.   Window grids and window trim wraps.
         d.   Wall break elements, bands and wainscots.
         e.   Attached structures and appendices.
         f.   Roof break elements (i.e., overlay gables).
         g.   Color and materials consistent with that home's architectural
style and front elevation.
         h.   At least thirty percent (30%) of the rear elevation must
incorporate materials and/or accent materials of the front elevation.
   H.   Front Entry, Service, Patio And Garage Doors:
      1.   Door styles and colors should be used in such a way to emphasize the
front entry and deemphasize the garage and service doors. Wood, insulated
metal, fiberglass and quality hardboard materials are acceptable. A variety of
door styles and colors are encouraged. Front entry doors shall be energy
efficient and appropriate to the architectural theme of the home. Muntins, side
lights, special shapes and window details shall be incorporated where
appropriate for the style chosen. Other appropriate features include:
         a.   Embossed or plant-on detail at front entry doors.
         b.   Accent colors.
         c.   Paneled wood or insulated steel/aluminum (embossed) garage doors.
         d.   Muted color schemes on service and garage doors.
         e.   Mixed use of single and double garage doors.
         f.   Trim wraps around all doors.
         g.   Pediments, entablatures and decorative archways where
appropriate.
         h.   Glass in doors and sidelights at entry doors.
   I.   Roof Accessories, Gutters And Downspouts:
      1.   It is required that all exposed, unpainted metal materials are
hidden or muted from the public eye whenever possible. Exposed flues and roof
vents shall be located on the back slope of roofs. Gutters and downspouts shall
match or be compatible with trim colors.
         a.   Wall grills and louvers shall be trimmed like other openings.
         b.   Roof edge detail shall be consistent on all roof components of a
structure.
         c.   Decorative roof accessories shall match the architecture of the
style chosen.
   J.   Chimneys:
      1.   Chimneys shall be compatible with the architectural style of the
building to ensure consistency in design. Through roof chimney projections
shall be clad of the same predominant siding material on the home or be all
masonry. Chimneys on facades shall match the facade material selection and
design, or be all masonry.
         a.   Decorative chimney caps are encouraged.
         b.   Detail is encouraged in siding and masonry chimney faces.
         c.   Scale of chimneys shall be compatible with the adjacent facade.
   K.   Fencing:
      1.   Within traditional single-family neighborhoods, desired fencing
where the rear yard or side yard abuts a roadway, open space access basement,
park, public lands, or common area (including landscape buffer or detention
area), the standard fence design criteria shall be followed. All other rear and
side yard lot line fences must meet the criteria below. Structural framing
shall be on the lot side of the fence whose owner wishes to erect the fence, by
agreement with the adjacent property owner, or on the lot side of the fence
adjacent to a roadway. Rear yard and side yard fences must be located within
six inches (6") of the lot line. This does not preclude internal fences used to
screen patios, pools and/or other private features whose designs are
appropriate to the house architecture.
      2.   All fencing must comply with all applicable provisions of this code
and this zoning ordinance, which provisions shall prevail and control (2
points).
      3.   Chainlink fencing and stockade fences shall not be allowed.
   L.   Building And Yard Lighting:
      1.   Exterior Lighting: Lighting of homes and their surroundings can add
dynamic effects within a community. Effective exterior lighting within the
neighborhood is encouraged. Light fixtures shall be consistent with the theme
of the community and building design. All lighting should be "down" or "area"
lighting. All light sources should be white (no colored lights) and no
unreasonable spillover of light should occur on neighboring properties.
Lighting should be effectively shielded to conceal glare.
      2.   Appropriate Lighting:
         a.   Wall mounted fixtures at entries that blend with theme of
community and building design.
         b.   Fixtures and standards shall be designed to aesthetically relate
to the character of the development.
         c.   Wall mounted and yard light fixtures are encouraged to be
complementary or matching.
         d.   Photo eye control lighting should be incorporated at key points
of entry for safety.
         e.   Ground uplighting is acceptable if sources of glare to roads and
adjacent lots are shielded.
      3.   Compliance: All exterior lighting is required to comply with the
applicable provisions of this zoning ordinance and/or this code, as amended
from time to time, the provisions of which shall prevail and control,
including, but not limited to, subsection 4-1-2D, "Offensive Lights", of this
code.
   M.   Decks, Porches, And Balconies:
      1.   Design And Materials: Entry porches should be designed as key
features that invite entrance to the home. The use of arches, pediments,
columns and railings are excellent examples of traditional design elements to
be incorporated where applicable. Decks attached to houses should be large
enough to be usable, and built with appropriate materials which can be exposed
to the weather. Enclosed screen porches, which are required to be located at
the rear of all residential buildings and structures, are acceptable if
designed consistent with the exterior of the respective residential building
and/or structure and constructed with materials consistent with the adjacent
building facade.
      2.   Appropriate Structures:
         a.   Wood deck trim, painted or stained to be compatible with the
house finishes, oriented to the rear.
         b.   Deck handrail systems, simple tin design and reflective of the
dwelling's style and character.
         c.   Rear screen porches that fit the architectural style of the
principal structure.
         d.   Dominant entry porches that fit the architectural style of the
principal structure.
         e.   Second floor balconies consistent with the structure's
architectural style.
   N.   Landscaping And Design:
      1.   The intended landscape theme for individual site design is best
described as a modified restoration of the native Illinois landscape. A heavy
emphasis on conservation and natural treatment of the landscape with dramatic
enhancement in high visibility areas is encouraged.
      2.   The main goals for landscaping within the development include:
         a.   Maintaining a high level of aesthetics using quality plant
materials arranged in strong, colorful plant groupings and ensuring proper and
consistent maintenance.
         b.   Creating a sustainable landscape emphasizing the use of best
management practices, native and noninvasive materials, using controlled
irrigation and drought tolerant plantings.
         c.   Incorporating key design principles (e.g., site orientation,
landscape layout, site grading) to frame and enhance architecture, to create
seasonal interest and to provide screening where necessary.
      3.   All plant materials shall be selected from a planting list
specifying the plant sizes and species approved in advance by the village board
or by the village administrator (2 points).
      4.   The following planning standards are for site landscape design
adjacent to single-family structures:
         a.   Individual owners shall provide adequate foundation landscaping
for all single-family residential buildings in keeping with the overall
landscape concept for the project. Landscaping shall consist of plant materials
selected from a planting list specifying the plant sizes and species approved
in advance by the village board or by the village administrator.
         b.   Trees located immediately adjacent to the structure shall be
appropriate for the scale of the structure.
         c.   Incorporate landscaping surrounding front entries.
         d.   Incorporate landscaping to screen garage elements.
         e.   Incorporate landscaping to screen services.
         f.   Include side yard landscaping. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-3E-6: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR THE VILLAGE CENTER OVERLAY
DISTRICT:
   A.   Applicability And Standards:
      1.   Applicability: All work related to the construction and/or
substantial exterior renovation of buildings and structures located or to be
located in the village center overlay zoning district that requires a building
permit after adoption of these architectural design standards shall be subject
to the scoring and review process in section 10-3E-3 of this article and the
architectural design standards in subsection A2 of this section. Compliance
with the standards set forth in this section is required for the construction
and/or substantial exterior renovation of all buildings and structures within
the village center overlay zoning district, provided, however, notwithstanding
the foregoing, any single-family development located within the VC-O village
center overlay district constructed on or after the effective date of these
architectural design standards shall comply with the architectural design
standards set forth in section 10-3E-5 of this article. The architectural
design standards hereby established in this section are intended to encourage
new construction and renovation of existing buildings and structures in the
village to reflect and reinforce the quality of design and craftsmanship that
can be seen in many of the area's historic buildings.
      2.   Architectural Design Standards For Buildings And Structures In The
Village Center Overlay District: Standards are subdivided into nine (9) parts
designed to address major elements of building facades:
         a.   General facade design concepts.
         b.   Exterior building materials.
         c.   Exterior material colors.
         d.   Building features and details.
         e.   Attached structures and appendices.
         f.   Fenestration, windows and glazing.
         g.   Sign compatibility.
         h.   Building lighting.
         i.   Building system screening.
The architectural design standards herein established for buildings and
structures in the village center overlay district are intended to assist the
village, in coordination with developers and builders, in successfully planning
and executing appropriate architectural design for buildings and structures
located or to be located in the village center overlay district and are to be
used in conjunction with section 10-3E-3 of this article, which establishes a
minimum threshold of rating each component of a proposed development or project
and then totaling the ratings in the form of a pass/fail grading requirement.
   B.   General Facade Design Concepts:
      1.   The incorporation of accurate, traditional architecture is
encouraged, depending on location (2 points).
      2.   Traditional architecture, for the purposes of this article, is
architecture whose styles and components predate the international modern
movement beginning from 1860 to 1920, but may include modern styles influenced
by traditional architecture and traditional styles influenced by regional
(Midwest) and, most importantly, local (Lake Villa) variation. Modern,
postmodern and contemporary international architecture not based on or
influenced by traditional architecture is discouraged (2 points).
      3.   Traditional architecture chosen shall be consistent with the highest
quality traditional styles of architecture found throughout the village and
Lake County (2 points).
      4.   Architectural features and treatments shall be consistent with the
architectural style chosen (2 points).
      5.   The level or intensity of architectural features, treatments, and
details provided shall be consistent with the traditional style chosen (2
points).
      6.   Continuity of architectural features and treatments (i.e., bay
windows, window proportions, detailing) throughout building facades and
throughout a development (for multiple buildings) shall be required.
      7.   Continuity of horizontal architectural elements, between components
of a building and between adjacent structures, shall be required.
      8.   Building bay spacing shall be consistent throughout a development
and compatible with adjacent buildings.
      9.   Building presence, from the street, shall be given priority as an
important component of facade design.
      10.   Street level retail/office is encouraged over alternative uses in
the village center overlay district.
      11.   Maintenance of distinction between the upper and lower floor
facades shall be required.
      12.   Rhythm of ground floor architectural features shall harmonize with
rhythm of upper stories.
      13.   For commercial/office development, the first floor shall retain a
largely transparent character, while the upper story(ies) shall have a more
solid quality to facade fenestration.
      14.   Maintenance of consistency in building widths, in an architectural
block of buildings, or development, shall be required.
      15.   For new buildings placed on two (2) or more lots, or large stand
alone buildings the established horizontal rhythm shall be maintained through
division of the structure into smaller bays, consistent throughout the
development and adjacent developments.
      16.   Individual building units shall be clearly defined through use of
such elements as pillars, piers, material changes, separation of glass, and/or
awnings.
      17.   The scale, proportions, massing, articulation and design features
of the front facade shall enhance the pedestrian and vehicular experience,
emphasizing the human scale.
      18.   Facade improvements that incorporate such traditional design
elements as cornices, transoms, friezes, bulkheads, window bases, and window
head moldings are appropriate and required.
      19.   Architectural features and applied moldings help to break up the
monotony resulting from uninterrupted walls. This type of treatment on plain
walls shall be required on all facades.
      20.   Consider the directional expression of adjacent buildings. Building
design may give a predominantly vertical, horizontal or multidirectional
expression to a building facade. The directional expression of buildings shall
complement that of adjacent buildings.
      21.   Building heights shall vary within each attached or unattached
adjacent structure. This variation adds character and visual interest to
corridors and developments, and is required.
      22.   Development building heights shall be to the nearest half- story of
adjacent buildings, unless architectural style or function dictates otherwise.
      23.   Long, uninterrupted wall or roof planes shall be avoided.
      24.   Offsets, within the form of buildings, are encouraged as features
that minimize the bulky look of a block shaped building.
      25.   Transparent facade design (50 percent minimum - commercial) is
required to increase visibility of business activity from the sidewalk and
street (see subsection G, "Fenestration, Glazing And Windows", of this section
for more detail).
      26.   Create continuity in roof types, for new buildings and upgraded
building with multiple roof elements.
      27.   Building windows shall be relatively consistent in height and
design and consistent with front facade doors to create a cohesive appearance
for each building. Building window base heights shall be coordinated with
adjacent facades within, and adjacent to, a development.
      28.   Horizontal building detailing including, but not limited to, sills,
headers, transoms, cornices, signage bands, shall be consistent in design,
coordinated and compatible with one another.
      29.   Sign bands, such as a horizontal band at the top of each building's
first floor, shall serve as the appropriate location for business signage and
help unify a commercial development. Signage shall be consistent in type, size
and color theme.
      30.   Large frieze elements can be incorporated as sign bands.
      31.   Articulated roof edges, clearly defined with significant detail and
with reinforced horizontal lines are a required facade element for commercial
and office type buildings.
      32.   Facades and roofing that can be seen by the public shall be of long
life, easily maintained, natural materials.
      33.   Overpowering architectural features, such as mansard roofs, should
only be used when they reflect the appropriate and accurate architectural style
of the project. This type of feature, if inappropriate for or out of scale for
the style, will not be allowed.
      34.   Design buildings with roof forms of hipped, gable, gambrel or other
appropriate roof components. Flat roofed structures are encouraged only if
appropriate for the architectural style.
      35.   Monotony should be avoided in design. The roofline at the top of a
structure shall incorporate offsets, jogs, architectural features and
components for enhanced interest.
      36.   Standing seam and batten seam metal roof systems, as principal
roof/wall elements, are only allowed if consistent with the architectural style
chosen.
      37.   Primary entrances shall be located at the front of the building,
unless off street parking dictates otherwise. Primary entries shall be
prominent architectural features.
      38.   Locate the major facade and/or major entrance of a building on the
side facing the primary pedestrian or vehicular access, unless dictated by off
street parking. Entryways shall be prominent, or accentuated by appropriate
architectural detail/features, and easily found by pedestrians and/or patrons.
      39.   Recessed entryways are appropriate and encouraged for unprotected
entrances. Recessed entryways shall be made prominent by including appropriate
detail.
      40.   One principal entry for each building component is encouraged. If
location of parking creates the need, multiple entries may be included.
      41.   Doors, especially principal entryways, shall be emphasized using
awnings, canopies, pediments, or other appropriate design feature.
      42.   Floor levels of new buildings shall relate to and be consistent and
coordinated with the floor levels of existing adjacent structures.
      43.   For multi-story buildings of three (3) or more stories, the upper
story shall be treated differently than the lower stories. Projected cornices
with varying finish and detail above, setbacks, mansards or stories within the
roof structure are examples.
   C.   Exterior Building Materials:
      1.   Exterior walls shall include a finish of natural facade materials,
i.e., natural wood, brick, concrete, stone, or a combination of these materials
(2 points).
      2.   The use of natural materials, such as wood, brick, stone, or
concrete, as the primary finish material, is required. Synthetic materials
shall be avoided as a primary finish (2 points).
      3.   Traditional, time tested, weather resistant building facade
materials shall be required (2 points).
      4.   Face brick, terra cotta, limestone, brownstone, lannon stone,
marble, granite, and ashlar masonry are recommended masonry finish materials.
These shall be selected based on the architectural style chosen.
      5.   Wood walls of clapboard, board and batten, shiplap, shingle style or
other traditional wood siding shall be used with horizontal placement, or
placement typical to the traditional installation methodology for the selected
style.
      6.   The use of concrete as a primary facade material shall only be
allowed if designed to include significant architectural feature, color and
texture.
      7.   Warm, small scale and durable materials shall be used on pedestrian
accessible surfaces, including knee walls, walkway features and walking
surfaces. The use of brick pavers, or stone, as a sidewalk component are
examples.
      8.   The choice of materials shall relate in character with and be
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      9.   Facade design, materials, and execution should be of high quality
for all facades. Secondary facades (side or rear) should complement the primary
facade treatments and adhere to standard principles and architectural style.
      10.   Exterior building materials shall be consistent and compatible on
all sides and levels of a building or structure.
      11.   Roof coverings such as shadow line or profile asphalt shingle,
cedar shake, slate, clay or concrete tile roofing shall be considered on all
pitched roofs. Corrugated tin or aluminum or preformed metal and other tile
roofs shall not be considered appropriate for primary or dominant roof
elements.
      12.   Exposed framing of attached structures, unless integral to the
design and architectural style, designed as an exposed element (i.e., heavy
timber or finished metal), shall not be allowed.
      13.   Materials and finishes used in attached structures shall be
consistent with and complementary to the architectural style of the principal
structure.
      14.   Suggested building accent materials include copper, aluminum, wood,
terne metal, accent stone, accent stucco, and terra cotta. Material selection
and finish should be durable, long life and maintenance friendly.
      15.   The use of EIFS as an accent material substitute for stucco shall
be allowed if designed to include significant architectural feature, color and
texture consistent with the architectural style.
      16.   Wood selections shall be those that hold up to the Midwest climate,
i.e., cedar or redwood of a high grade and with appropriate finish.
      17.   Preferred roofing materials shall also apply to equipment screens.
Rooftop mechanical equipment is strongly discouraged unless effectively
screened. If used, it shall be screened with material complementary and
consistent with building architecture and roof design/finish.
      18.   Use of plain concrete block, applied synthetic brick, vinyl, or
aluminum siding, shall not be allowed as a primary or accent facade material.
      19.   The use of plywood panels, i.e., T-111 or stucco panels, as a
primary or accent exterior finish material, shall not be allowed.
      20.   The use of batten or standing seam metal roofs, as a dominant
primary or accent roof or siding element, shall not be allowed.
      21.   The use of EIFS, as a primary facade material, shall not be
allowed.
      22.   The use of neon or xenon shall not be allowed as a decorative
exterior element of the facade or structure, or as an interior element shining
through facade glazing.
   D.   Exterior Material Colors:
      1.   Reflect a color palette of well established local traditions and
traditional architectural styles, in all building facade color selections (2
points).
      2.   New buildings shall utilize the predominant and appropriate colors
and textures of surrounding buildings, and be compatible with those building
materials (2 points).
      3.   Use of discordant, or harsh, nonharmonious color is not allowed (2
points).
      4.   Maximized color harmony within a development and between neighboring
buildings shall be required (2 points).
      5.   Exterior colors of all facade elements shall be compatible with
existing adjacent buildings (2 points).
      6.   Exterior color schemes shall be consistent throughout a property,
and all of its structures, including the upper and lower portions of buildings,
all sides of buildings, and on attached structures, elements and details (2
points).
      7.   Color combination schemes shall be limited to no more than three (3)
colors for an individual building or five (5) colors for all structures in a
development, unless the architectural style dictates a wider range.
      8.   The limit of exterior colors should also be applied to attached
structures, features, details and signs.
      9.   No one color range dominates the village center corridors. Earth
tones, including, but not limited to, browns, reds, beiges and grays are
appropriate only for all proposed projects. Nonearth tones are appropriate if
dictated by the selected architectural style.
      10.   Colors used for the building accents should be earthy and neutral
unless otherwise dictated by architectural style. Bright colors, used for
accents or for commercial logos, shall be used sparingly, if at all, and will
be subject to village review and approval (2 points).
      11.   When used in door and window frames, reflective materials, such as
aluminum shall be softened through the use of earth tone colors and matte
finishes. Mullion colors shall match the window frame colors.
      12.   Muted, natural tones shall be applied to all painted elements such
as windows, trim and cornices. Natural tones used shall complement the primary
building facade colors.
      13.   Awning, canopy and attached structure colors shall blend with and
be compatible with building facade colors. Bright primary colors are not
allowed, however, attached structure trim accentuated with contrasting colors
shall be allowed if compatible with principal colors and used on a limited
basis.
      14.   Bright primary colors are not allowed for main facade finishes.
However, trim on the main facade, accentuated with contrasting colors shall be
allowed, on a limited basis.
      15.   For signs, a maximum of three (3) colors shall be used. Background
colors that match the building color, or neutral colors, are acceptable. A high
level of contrast between the sign message and background works well for
legibility.
      16.   Bright or overly colorful roofing materials shall not be allowed.
      17.   Color of trim, attached structures, details, and signs shall be
compatible with that of neighboring building's main facade, attached
structures, details and signs.
      18.   Windows and window frames/trim shall have an appropriate finish and
color to the architectural style, and be consistent with the overall color
scheme of the structure.
      19.   The color of the elements buffering mechanical ventilation,
building utility services, trash dumpsters, etc., shall be subdued, muted and
natural and shall harmonize with the principal building color or colors.
      20.   Secondary facade colors shall be coordinated and compatible with
color schemes of primary facades.
      21.   Facade colors shall be consistent and compatible on all sides and
levels of a building or a development of buildings.
   E.   Building Features And Details:
      1.   Ornate building silhouettes, top of wall features, or profiles are
required to be consistent with the architectural style chosen.
      2.   Offsets in building walls are required to break up large surfaces (2
points).
      3.   Masonry detailing such as rowlocks, soldiers, headers, plants,
copings, arches and ornate coursing details are required to a level of
intensity consistent with the style chosen.
      4.   Major or common architectural elements to be incorporated in
building facades include window bases, pilasters, columns, friezes, cornices,
wall break details and window treatments/surrounds.
      5.   Accurate representation of traditional architectural elements,
details, and styles shall be required.
      6.   Kick plates, and decorative panels, as a base to the facade windows,
are preferred over window panels down to the floor, unless chosen style
dictates otherwise.
      7.   Pilasters, columns and other architectural features shall be
appropriate to the proposed architectural style and consistent throughout a
development.
      8.   Maintenance and coordination of appropriate cornice lines, with
respect to adjacent buildings, shall be required. Cornice lines shall be
compatible in detail, size, color, shape and elevation.
      9.   Cornice style shall match proposed architectural style of building
or building developments.
      10.   The "frieze" or "sign band" is the horizontal segment of the
building located above the display window and below the second floor windows,
facade trim, or building cornice. Friezes shall be consistent throughout a
development of buildings and appropriate for the proposed architectural style.
      11.   Window shutters are an appropriate element of certain architectural
styles, but should appear to be capable of properly covering the windows, and
shall be appropriate for the architectural style selected.
      12.   See subsection D, "Exterior Material Colors", of this section for
additional information regarding architectural features.
      13.   The following is a list of generally accepted, traditional building
features and details that, when combined with traditional exterior finish
materials and architectural styles, will assist in forming the basis for
architecturally harmonious environments for village center corridors.
Incorporated features shall be located in pattern, number, size, and detail to
be compatible with proposed architectural styles, for facade design, facade
enhancement and new nonresidential developments.
         a.   Ancones, decorative brackets that support a cornice.
         b.   Appendices, minor roof structures and canopies built against main
facades.
         c.   Apse, semipolygonal projections.
         d.   Arches, various forms of an opening head.
         e.   Arcading, series of arches/blind arcade. No opening.
         f.   Architrave, base of entablature.
         g.   Abacus, decorative column cap.
         h.   Awning blind, awning type shutter.
         i.   Barge board, ornamental gable board.
         j.   Battered wall, sloped wall.
         k.   Bay, window bay.
         l.   Belvidere, rooftop pavilion/railing.
         m.   Balustrade, decorative railing system.
         n.   Bulkhead, decorative entrance frame.
         o.   Campanile, tower structure (i.e., bell type).
         p.   Cavetto, crown molding.
         q.   Clerestory, upper windows.
         r.   Cornice, upper section of entablature.
         s.   Corbelling, masonry projection.
         t.   Coping, decorative wall or parapet cap.
         u.   Corbiestep, stepped gable end wall.
         v.   Crest tile, decorative roof ridge tiling.
         w.   Cupola, decorative roof structure.
         x.   Dentiles, cornice's decoration.
         y.   Dormers, recessed dormers.
         z.   Diagonal bracing, column decoration.
         aa.   Entablature entices.
         bb.   Fenestration, window treatment arrangement.
         cc.   Finial, decorative roof ornament.
         dd.   Frieze, middle part of an entablature.
         ee.   Flying buttress.
         ff.   Flanking windows, side lights.
         gg.   Gambrel, roof shape.
         hh.   Gable, roof shape.
         ii.   Hips, roof shape.
         jj.   Hood, decorative closure/cover over a window.
         kk.   Inlay, surface ornamentation.
         ll.   Keystone, top of an arch.
         mm.   Loggia, column porch/gallery.
         nn.   Link dormer, connecting dormer.
         oo.   Lintel, decorative opening head.
         pp.   Louver, decorative grillage.
         qq.   Niche, recess in a solid wall.
         rr.   Oriel window, corbelled window projection.
         ss.   Parapet, wall extension above a rude live.
         tt.   Plinth, decorative pier base.
         uu.   Pier, column.
         vv.   Pediment, decorative door head.
         ww.   Portico, porch/gallery.
         xx.   Skirt roof.
         yy.   Scalloping, decorative curve shaped moldings.
      14.   Building feature/detail material, color, and texture shall be
consistent with the finish materials and architectural style of the building (2
points).
      15.   Building elements, such as awnings, signs, doors, windows, and
lighting fixtures, shall complement each other and primary building facade
finishes.
      16.   Building features/details shall be consistent on all sides and
levels of a building or development of buildings. The level of intensity of
detail shall be appropriate for the architectural style selected.
   F.   Attached Structures And Appentices:
      1.   Use of awnings, canopies or other design features is required to
enhance front facades if dictated by the architectural style selected. The
level of intensity shall be consistent with the architectural style chosen.
      2.   Awnings, canopies and other features shall be designed to add depth
to the building surface and accentuate entrances. They shall be of appropriate
color, and shall provide effective weather protection to building facades.
      3.   Awnings and canopies on a multiple storefront building or building
development shall be consistent in character, scale, color, location and
architectural style.
      4.   Awning and canopy locations shall respect the facade framework.
      5.   Awning and canopy size, color and placement shall complement the
architectural character of the building.
      6.   Soft, weather treated canvas or vinyl fabrics, which allow for
flexible or fixed installation, shall be used for awnings.
      7.   Awnings and canopies provide a secondary location for signage. All
signage shall comply with the village's sign regulations which are part of this
zoning ordinance, as amended from time to time, which sign regulations shall
control and prevail.
      8.   Awning and canopy signs shall be painted on or attached flat against
the surface of the structure as an integral element as opposed to an add on
feature.
      9.   Awning and canopy shapes shall relate to the facade's other
architectural elements.
      10.   Awnings and canopies shall be integrated into and relate to the
scale of the building facade.
      11.   Canopies, surrounds and structures creating monumental entrances
are required if dictated by the architectural style chosen.
      12.   Appropriate canopy, appendices, or structure materials include
those that are compatible and consistent with building architectural style (see
subsection C, "Exterior Building Materials", of this section).
      13.   Canopies, porticos, pediments and loggias are required to cover and
protect entrance if dictated by the architectural style chosen. Zoning
ordinance setbacks, however, shall be adhered to.
      14.   The use of attached structures shall be consistent on all sides and
levels of a building, where exposed.
      15.   Use of second floor balconies/porches, and decks for coverage of
sidewalks or as an attached element shall not be allowed, unless dictated by
architectural style and approved by the village.
   G.   Fenestration, Glazing And Windows:
      1.   Substantial amounts of glass create transparent street level facades
and are required at all corridors of the village center.
      2.   Architecturally correct and original window characteristics and
styles shall be incorporated.
      3.   In general a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the first floor
street side commercial facades shall be transparent.
      4.   First floor commercial retail establishments shall contain, at a
minimum, a sixty percent (60%) or four hundred (400) square foot display window
percentage based on an overall primary facade dimension.
      5.   "Transparent" facades are not as necessary for some businesses, such
as professional offices, or office components of industrial buildings.
Fenestration should still be significant, minimum forty percent (40%) of facade
areas, shall be required.
      6.   Building windows shall not be obscured; clear is preferred over
appropriately tinted.
      7.   Clear glass is preferred for merchandizing windows.
      8.   Clear glass for windows and doors is suggested, though slightly
tinted glass for energy efficiency purposes may be used. Colors shall be grays,
blues, and bronze, nonreflective and nonmirrored. Nonstandard colors shall be
avoided.
      9.   The use of window mullions to section large display windows shall be
consistent with the architectural style selected.
      10.   As a design feature, transom windows are an important element in
the proportion of taller facades. Transom windows are required to be consistent
with the architectural style selected.
      11.   Windows shall be proportionate to the facade scale and in keeping
with architectural style of proposed buildings. All glass facades shall not be
allowed.
      12.   Aluminum, steel, or vinyl clad wood windows, in appropriate style
and color, may be used for maintenance freedom.
      13.   Windows on all levels of multiple-story buildings are required.
They shall be properly spaced and proportioned in reference to the entire
building. If windows cannot be included, an appropriate architecture feature
shall be.
      14.   Nontransparent material, such as a glass block, is not appropriate
as fenestration, but may be used as an architectural element if appropriate to
the proposed style. They shall not, however, be a dominant feature.
      15.   Plexiglas or other glass substitute materials shall not be allowed
as fenestration.
      16.   The use of small paned windows, unless characteristic of the
building's architectural style or original design is not appropriate.
      17.   Fenestration shall be required on all facades facing roads and
public ways of the Village center.
      18.   The level of intensity of windows, frames and frame detailing shall
be consistent with the architectural style chosen.
   H.   Sign Compatibility:
      1.   All signage shall comply with the requirements of related Village
ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Village's sign regulations which
are part of this title, as may be amended from time to time, which sign
regulations shall control and prevail (2 points).
      2.   Sign lighting shall be consistent with building lighting.
      3.   Obstruction of architectural features by building signs shall not be
allowed.
      4.   Signs shall not be located on any portion of the upper stories of
building facades.
      5.   To prevent the creation of public safety hazards and to ensure that
such illumination does not interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent
properties, illumination of any neon, or xenon, or LED sign shall be limited to
that created by a transformer with a thirty (30) milliamp rating or equal. Neon
or xenon or LED signs shall be subject to the sign area limitations set forth
in subsection 10-6D-3F4d of this title. Neon, xenon, or LED lighting shall only
be permitted as part of a neon or xenon or LED sign as defined in this title
and shall not be permitted to be installed in a manner that accentuates or
draws attention to windows or other exterior features of the building or of
another structure such as when used as trim along building lines, eaves,
rooflines, windows, etc. Flashing neon or LED or xenon signs are not permitted.
   I.   Building Lighting:
      1.   All lighting shall comply with the applicable provisions of this
title and/or this Code, as amended from time to time, the provisions of which
shall control and prevail, including, but not limited to, subsection 4-1-2D,
"Offensive Lights", of this Code (2 points).
      2.   Site lighting, display window lights, architectural lighting, and
general area lighting are encouraged to advertise the business, highlight
building features and entries, and to illuminate dark corners of the property
or street.
      3.   Exterior lighting shall highlight building elements, signs, or other
distinctive features rather than attract attention to the light fixture itself.
      4.   Exterior lighting shall be appropriate to the building's
architectural style. The scale and style of the light fixture shall be in
keeping with the facade design (2 points).
      5.   Exterior building lights shall coordinate with architectural details
of the building (2 points).
      6.   Exterior building lighting shall be coordinated and compatible with
lights of adjacent structures.
      7.   To minimize glare, lights shall be aimed up or down, not out. The
light source shall be minimized.
      8.   Indirect lighting shall be provided, whenever possible, for display
and architectural type lighting.
      9.   Building lighting shall provide an even illumination level. The use
of flashing, pulsating, or similar dynamic lighting is not allowed.
      10.   Lighting shall be provided at rear and emergency exits of
businesses to assist customers in locating the rear exits and for safe use of
exit discharge walkways.
      11.   All lighting that must remain lit during night hours of operation
shall comply with the applicable provisions of this zoning ordinance and/or
this code, as amended from time to time, the provisions of which shall control
and prevail, including, but not limited to, subsection 4-1-2D, "Offensive
Lights", of this code.
      12.   Sconce type lighting shall be allowed if the light source is
completely obscured, and the fixture is in keeping with the proposed
architectural style.
      13.   Walkway lighting (bollard or decorative pole type) is encouraged,
if the light source is obscured and the fixture is in keeping with the proposed
architectural style.
      14.   Ground mounted building lighting shall be allowed if the light
source is obscured, and the fixtures are screened by landscaping.
      15.   Neon and xenon type fixtures or light sources are not allowed.
      16.   See subsection H, "Sign Compatibility", of this section for
additional lighting standards.
   J.   Building Systems Screening:
      1.   A building's mechanical, electrical and plumbing system shall be
effectively concealed from view from all locations and ground level vistas (2
points).
      2.   Rooftop equipment shall be hidden by a screening device or roof
structures so as not to be visible from the street, sidewalk adjacent
properties or public ways (2 points).
      3.   Rooftop screening shall be consistent with the shape and profile of
the principal roof structure. Screening that appears "box" shaped shall not be
allowed (2 points).
      4.   Rooftop screens shall be of architectural features and materials
coordinated and compatible with building architecture and color (2 points).
      5.   Batten seam, standing seam and corrugated metal roof systems shall
be allowed as screens only if they are not a dominant architectural feature and
they are complementary to building architectural style and detail.
      6.   Ground equipment screens shall be of architectural features and
materials coordinated and compatible with building architecture and color.
      7.   Solid evergreen landscape screening shall be an acceptable method of
ground equipment screening. (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-3E-7: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR MULTI-FAMILY BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES, INCLUDING APARTMENTS, CONDOMINIUMS, TOWNHOMES, ROW HOMES, AND
LINEAR MULTI-FAMILY CONFIGURATIONS:
   A.   Applicability And Standards:
      1.   Applicability: Regardless of zoning district, all work related to
the construction and/or substantial exterior renovation of multi-family
residential buildings and structures that requires a building permit after
adoption of these architectural design standards shall be subject to the
scoring and review process in section 10-3E-3 of this article and the
architectural design standards in subsection A2 of this section. Compliance
with the standards set forth in this section is required for the new
construction and/or the substantial exterior renovation of all multi-family
residential buildings and structure. Multi-family residential buildings are a
classification of housing units where multiple separate housing units for
residential inhabitants are contained within one building or several buildings
within one complex. Multi-family residential buildings located within the
village center overlay zoning district shall adhere to traditional architecture
and traditional styles as described in subsection 10-3E-6A2 of this article.
The design standards hereby established in this section are intended to
encourage new construction and renovation of existing buildings and structures
in the village to reflect and reinforce the quality of design and craftsmanship
that can be seen in many of the area's historic residential neighborhoods.
      2.   Facade Architectural Design Standards: Standards are subdivided into
ten (10) parts designed to address major elements of building facades:
         a.   Design standards for multi-family residential buildings and
structures.
         b.   Elevations.
         c.   Scale and massing.
         d.   Exterior materials and finishes.
         e.   Exterior colors.
         f.   Front entry, service, patio and garage doors.
         g.   Roof accessories, gutters and downspouts.
         h.   Chimneys.
         i.   Landscaping.
         j.   Fencing.
While multi-family dwellings in the village are not restricted to a particular
style, it is encouraged that a traditional character be established which is
consistent with recognized traditional styles and Midwest vernacular. Styles
shall be consistent to a reasonable level throughout all facades of a
structure.
   B.   Design Standards For Multi-Family Buildings And Structures:
      1.   It is envisioned that all multi-family buildings will be designed as
a "whole" rather than an assemblage of individual units (2 points).
      2.   Multi-family developments shall have a consistent architectural
style throughout the development, even if designed and constructed in phases (2
points).
   C.   Elevations:
      1.   Theme: Multi-family communities can mix styles by individual
neighborhood but must create an entire neighborhood around a specific
architectural character (or theme). There shall be a minimum percentage of
masonry applied to multi-family buildings based on a measure of what is
appropriate to a particular style selected, subject to village input (2
points).
      2.   Upper Story Of Three Or More Stories: For multi-story buildings, of
three (3) or more stories, the upper story shall be treated differently than
the lower stories. Projected cornices with varying finish and detail above,
setbacks, mansards or stories within the roof structure are examples.
      3.   Minimum Requirements (2 points):
         a.   Minimum of three (3) color packages (per neighborhood). No
buildings of the same color shall be side by side.
         b.   Consistent incorporation of traditional characteristics as
described above.
         c.   Blended use of a variety of traditional architectural themes,
materials and design components, throughout a development.
         d.   Consistency of architectural style, material use and
architectural detail on all facades, throughout a neighborhood.
   D.   Scale And Massing:
      1.   Factors: Design consideration must be given to the relationship of
architectural massing and the scale of building elements in multi-family
neighborhoods. Exterior elevation design must consider the scale, balance and
character of the entire assembled elevation. The incorporation of animated
rooflines, well defined unit entries, usable covered porches, bay windows and
other residentially scaled elements, attached structures and appendices, are
critical to reduce the frontal mass and impact of the building, and to make
side and rear elevation complexity similar to the front.
      2.   Design Considerations:
         a.   Overall building mass scaled down through varying roof heights,
styles and shapes.
         b.   Appropriate sense of scale and balance, within a structure's
components.
         c.   Architectural elements such as dormer, bay window projections and
dominant entry elements.
         d.   Asymmetrical building elevation design is encouraged, and may be
required subject to design style chosen and village input.
         e.   Scale and massing consistent with the architectural style chosen.
         f.   Scale and massing consistent on all facades of a structure.
   E.   Exterior Materials And Finishes:
      1.   Style Consistency: Materials, detail, and trim selections must take
into account the nature of the individual building style and be reflective of
their traditional appearance and prominence in the neighborhood (2 points).
      2.   Natural Materials Required; Manmade Materials Acceptable: It is
required that portions of front elevations incorporate the use of natural
materials such as wood siding, brick and stone. Manmade materials including
synthetic stucco, fiber cement siding and vinyl siding are acceptable as
elements provided that portion of elevations include natural materials of wood
trim and/or accents. Synthetic stucco shall be limited in use to a secondary
element or accent, unless designed to appear as a brick or stone material.
      3.   Styled Elevation Enhancements: Corner boards, window and door trims,
shutters, band boards, and moldings shall be used to differentiate and enhance
each individual styled elevation. Entries shall be oriented to the street, and
shall receive additional emphasis and detail. Flush rakes and long expanses of
flat wall planes are not allowed. Gutters, downspouts and splash blocks are
required and shall be included with each elevation design, in a style
compatible with the architecture of the structure.
      4.   Minimum Requirements:
         a.   Corner boards, trim and door/window surrounds on all facades
(natural material).
         b.   Side and rear facades shall incorporate at least one natural
material used on the front facade, covering at least twenty percent (20%) of
the surface.
         c.   Side and rear facades fully exposed to or partially fronting on
public ways or ROW, shall include the same design materials and detail
intensity used on the front facade.
   F.   Exterior Colors:
      1.   Factors: Color packages shall be developed with consideration for
variety and compatibility within each neighborhood as well as throughout the
entire community. Colors shall be consistent with traditional village and
Midwest vernacular. Color packages shall be compatible with surrounding
neighborhoods. For new construction, all color palettes shall require the prior
written approval of the zoning officer prior to the application thereof on or
to any building or structure (2 points).
      2.   Minimum Requirements (2 points):
         a.   Approved color schemes shall feature a harmonious range of color
blends and shading.
         b.   Consideration of a monochromatic color scheme within one multi-
family neighborhood.
         c.   Complementary trim and siding colors with slight variations in
contrast.
         d.   Subtle third color accents, in traditional colors, appropriate
for the style chosen.
   G.   Front Entry, Service, Patio And Garage Doors:
      1.   Door styles and colors should be used in such a way to emphasize the
front entry and deemphasize the garage and service doors. Wood, insulated
metal, fiberglass and quality hardboard materials are acceptable. A variety of
door styles and colors are encouraged but the door style must be appropriate to
the architectural theme of the building. Muntins, side lights, special shapes
and window details shall be incorporated where appropriate for the style
chosen.
      2.   Other appropriate features include:
         a.   Embossed or plant-on detail at front entry doors.
         b.   Accent colors, consistent on all units.
         c.   Paneled wood or insulated steel/aluminum (embossed) garage doors.
Windows are encouraged.
         d.   Muted color schemes on service and garage doors.
         e.   Mixed use of single and double garage doors.
         f.   Trim wraps around all doors in complementary colors.
         g.   Pediments, entablatures and decorative archways where
appropriate.
   H.   Roof Accessories, Gutters And Downspouts: It is required that all
exposed, unpainted metal materials are hidden or muted from the public eye
whenever possible. Exposed flues and roof vents shall be located on the back
slope of roofs. Wall vents shall be trimmed consistent with other wall
openings. Gutters and downspouts shall match or be compatible with trim colors.
   I.   Chimneys: Chimneys shall be compatible with the architectural style of
the building to ensure consistency in design. Through roof chimney projections
shall be clad of the same predominant siding material on the structure.
Chimneys on facades shall match the facade material selection and design, or be
all masonry.
      1.   Decorative chimney caps are encouraged.
      2.   Detail is encouraged in siding and masonry chimney faces.
      3.   Scale.
   J.   Landscaping And Design:
      1.   The intended landscape theme for individual site design is best
described as a modified restoration of the native Illinois landscape. A heavy
emphasis on conservation and natural treatment of the landscape with dramatic
enhancement in high visibility areas is encouraged.
      2.   The main goals for landscaping within the development include:
         a.   Maintaining a high level of aesthetics using quality plant
materials arranged in strong, colorful plant groupings and ensuring proper and
consistent maintenance.
         b.   Creating a sustainable landscape emphasizing the use of best
management practices, native and noninvasive materials, using controlled
irrigation and drought tolerant plantings, and encouraging natural stormwater
management through utilization of grass filters and minimized catch basin/
piping systems.
         c.   Incorporating key design principles (e.g., site orientation,
landscape layout, site grading) to frame and enhance architecture, to create
seasonal interest and to provide screening where necessary.
      3.   All plant materials shall be selected from a planting list
specifying the plant sizes and species approved in advance by the village board
or by the village administrator (2 points).
      4.   The planning standards for site landscape design in multi- family
areas shall include foundation planting and landscape screening of mechanical,
electrical and service equipment, subject to village approval.
         a.   Foundation Landscaping: The developer shall provide adequate
foundation landscaping for all multi-family residential buildings in keeping
with the overall landscape concept for the project. Landscaping shall consist
of plant materials selected from a planting list specifying the plant sizes and
species approved in advance by the village board or by the village
administrator.
         b.   Landscape Screening: Landscape screening is a preferred
alternative to architectural screening where applicable.
   K.   Fencing: In order to provide a cohesive, well planned fencing program,
lot line fences for rear and side yards shall be predetermined by the developer
for multi-family areas. Fencing style, height, material and location in these
areas will require the prior written approval of the village. All fencing must
comply with all applicable provisions of this code and this zoning ordinance,
which provisions shall control and prevail (2 points). (Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-
2017)
CHAPTER 4
SUPPLEMENTARY ZONE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-0: Introduction
10-4-1: Industrial Performance Standards
10-4-1-1: Purpose
10-4-1-2: Conformance With Performance Standards
10-4-1-3: Performance Standards
10-4-1-4: Vibration
10-4-1-5: Smoke And Particulate Matter
10-4-1-6: Methods Of Measurement
10-4-1-7: Enforcement
10-4-2: Floodplain Regulations
10-4-3: Standards For Special Uses
10-4-4: Standards For Certain Conditional Uses
10-4-5: Accessory, Temporary, And Other Uses; Exceptions; Improvement
Guarantees
10-4-5-1: Standards For Accessory Uses
10-4-5-2: Standards For Temporary Uses
10-4-5-3: Home Occupations
10-4-5-4: Other Uses And Regulations
10-4-5-5: Exceptions To Regulations
10-4-5-6: Improvement Guarantees
10-4-6: Landscaping
10-4-7: Required Sewer And Water Services
10-4-8: Stormwater Detention Regulation
10-4-9: Erosion And Sediment Control Regulation
10-4-0: INTRODUCTION:
These supplementary regulations are listed or described in this chapter rather
than repeated several times throughout this title, since they apply to several
zones. These regulations pertain to certain specific uses, authorize certain
exemptions, or relate to unusual conditions. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-1: INDUSTRIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
10-4-1-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this section 10-4-1 to establish regulations and standards
for the installation and operation of industrial uses, based upon consideration
of the objectionable characteristics of such uses and the zones in which they
are permitted. Further, this section 10-4-1 is intended to prescribe procedures
and methods of measurement of industrial characteristics subject to such
standards. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-1-2: CONFORMANCE WITH PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Any use permitted in the LI or LI-2 zone, whether such use is permitted as a
principal use or as an accessory use, shall be subject to these standards.
   A.   Permitted Procedure: Before a building permit is issued for a use in an
LI zone, the applicant shall furnish the zoning officer sufficient information
to enable the zoning officer to assure himself that all performance standards
and site development standards set forth in the zoning ordinance can and will
be complied with at all times. All information and evidence submitted in
applications to indicate conformity to performance standards shall constitute a
certification and an agreement on the part of the applicant that the proposed
use can and will conform to such standards at all times.
   B.   Information Submission: The zoning officer, in order to determine
whether or not the applicant will meet such standards, may require the
applicant to submit the following information:
      1.   A plot plan showing the location of all present and proposed
structures, drives, parking lots, waste disposal areas, bulk storage areas,
streets, streams, or other significant features on or within two hundred feet
(200') of the proposed site.
      2.   A description of the activity to be conducted regarding waste
products, external effects or other conditions which are regulated herein;
provided, however, that the applicant shall not be required to reveal any trade
secrets or sufficient detail with regard to a process procedure for a closely
guarded proprietary compound or product to become public knowledge and be
available to competitors.
      3.   The type and location of abatement devices to control, or recorded
instruments to measure, conformance with required standards, not including
devices and instruments which are inherent in the manufacturing process.
      4.   Such other data and certification as may reasonably be required by
the zoning officer to reach a determination.
      5.   When a new or altered use in an LI or LI-2 zone is proposed that
may, in the opinion of the zoning officer, involve a possible violation of the
regulations in section
10-4-1-3 of this chapter, the zoning officer shall, as condition precedent to
issuing a building permit, require the deposit in escrow of an amount as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, which escrow deposit shall be held by the Village
for a period of one year from the date of the new or altered use or occupancy.
The zoning officer shall notify the zoning board of appeals of such required
deposit in escrow. Any unused portion of any such escrow deposits or remainders
of escrow deposits shall be returned to the depositors at expiration of the
escrow period. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-4-1-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
In the LI and LI-2 zones, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Permitted Noise Levels:
         a.   At no point on or beyond the boundary of any lot which abuts a
lot in the same zone shall the sound pressure level resulting from any use or
activity, whether open or enclosed, exceed the maximum permitted decibel levels
for the designated octave band as set forth in table 3 of this section:
TABLE 3
MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL IN DECIBELS
Octave Band Frequency Zone LI, LI-2
Cycles Per Second     Decibels Series A
Octave Band Frequency Zone LI, LI-2
Cycles Per Second     Decibels Series A
   0 - 74          67
   75 - 149        59
   150 - 299       52
   300 - 599       46
   600 - 1199      40
   1200 - 2399     34
   2400 - 4799     32
   4800 and over   32
 
         b.   The sound pressure level resulting from any use or activity,
which abuts any other zone, shall not exceed the maximum permitted level for
the designated octave band as provided in table 3 of this section and as
further set forth in table 4 of this section: (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
TABLE 4
MAXIMUM PERMITTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS AT ZONE BOUNDARIES IN DECIBELS
 
Abutting Zone At Point Of Measurement                  Zone LI, LI-2 Series
LI, LI-2, CB, CR, SB, RD, AG, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, A
UR4, NC
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
      2.   Method Of Measurement: Sound levels shall be measured with a sound
level meter and associated octave band filter and impact noise filter
manufactured according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat network and "slow" meter
response of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to
the performance standards if those noises are capable of being accurately
measured with such equipment. Noises capable of being so measured, for the
purpose of this title, shall be those noises which cause rapid fluctuations of
the needle of the sound level meter with a variation of no more than plus or
minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of being so measured, but
objectionable because of intermittence, beat, frequency, or shrillness, shall
be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Exception: Nothing in this section shall apply to: noises not
directly under the control of the property user; noises resulting from the
construction and maintenance of buildings and facilities including site
preparation; noises of safety signals or warning devices; and noises of
railroad or trucking equipment. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-1-4: VIBRATION:
Steady state vibrations, for the purpose of this title, are vibrations which
are continuous or vibrations in discrete pulses more frequent than one hundred
(100) per minute. Discrete pulses, which do not exceed one hundred (100)
impulses per minute, shall not cause displacement in excess of twice the values
established in table 5 of this section. "Impact vibrations" shall mean
vibrations occurring in discrete pulses separated by an interval of at least
one minute and numbering no more than eight (8) per twenty four (24) hour
period.
   A.   Permitted Vibration Displacements: At no point on or beyond the
boundary of any lot shall the ground transmitted steady state or impact
vibration caused by any use or activity (except those not directly under the
control of the property user) exceed the limits as established in tables 5 and
6 of this section for the various industrial zones and for any industrial zone
boundary adjacent to a residential zone.
TABLE 5
MAXIMUM PERMITTED STEADY STATE VIBRATION DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
 
Frequency Cycles Per Second LI, LI-2 Zone (Inches) Adjacent To Any Residential
                                                   Zone (Inches)
Less than 10                0.0008                 0.0004
10 through 19               0.0005                 0.0002
20 through 29               0.0003                 0.0001
30 through 39               0.0002                 0.0001
40 through 49               0.0001                 0.0001
50 and over                 0.0001                 0.0001
 
TABLE 6
MAXIMUM PERMITTED IMPACT VIBRATION DISPLACEMENT IN INCHES
 
Frequency Cycles Per Second LI, LI-2 Zone Adjacent To Any Residential Zone
                            (Inches)      (Inches)
Less than 10                0.0016        0.0006
10 through 19               0.0010        0.0003
20 through 29               0.0006        0.0002
30 through 39               0.0004        0.0001
40 through 49               0.0002        0.0001
50 and over                 0.0002        0.0001
 
   B.   Method Of Measurement: For the purpose of measuring vibrations, a three
(3) component measuring system denotes instrumentation, which can measure
earthborn vibrations in three (3) directions, each of which occurs at right
angles to the other two (2). (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-1-5: SMOKE AND PARTICULATE MATTER:
The emission, from all sources within any lot, of particulate matter containing
more than five percent (5%) by weight of particles having a particle diameter
larger than forty four (44) microns is prohibited. Dust and other types of air
pollution borne by the wind from such sources of any lot shall be kept to a
minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling or other acceptable means.
Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess of weight
limitations specified herein is prohibited. The emissions of smoke or
particulate matter of density equal to, or greater than no. 2 on the Ringelmann
chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided herein.
   A.   Smoke Emission:
      1.   In the LI zone, the emission of more than twelve (12) smoke units
per stack in any one hour period is prohibited. However, once during any six
(6) hour period each stack shall be permitted up to twelve (12) additional
units in a fifteen (15) minute period for soot blowing and fire cleaning. Only
during such fifteen (15) minute periods shall smoke of a density equal to, but
not exceeding, Ringelmann no. 3 be permitted, and then only for fire cleaning
and for not more than four (4) minutes per period.
   B.   Particulate Matter Emission: The rate of emission of particulate matter
from all sources within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed the rate
established in table 7 of this section:
TABLE 7
PERMITTED RATE OF PARTICULATE MATTER EMISSION IN POUNDS PER HOUR, PER ACRE
Height Of Emission Zone LI, LI-2
(Feet)             (Pounds)
Height Of Emission Zone LI, LI-2
(Feet)             (Pounds)
   0 - 49       1.06
   50 - 99      1.01
   100 - 149    1.06
   150 - 199    1.10
   200 - 299    1.16
   300 - 399    1.30
   400 and over 1.50
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-1-6: METHODS OF MEASUREMENT:
   A.   Smoke: For the purpose of grading the density of emission of smoke, the
Ringelmann chart, published and used by the United States bureau of mines shall
be employed. For the purpose of determining smoke units, the Ringelmann density
reading shall be made at least every minute during the period of observation.
Each reading (Ringelmann number) shall be multiplied by the time in minutes for
which it is observed, and the products added together to determine the total
number of smoke units observed during the total period of observation.
   B.   Particulate Matter: The total net rate of emission of particulate
matter within the boundaries of any lot shall be determined as follows:
Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each source of emission
and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot areas, thereby obtaining
the hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre. Add together the individual
rates of emission from all sources of emission within the boundaries of the
lot. It is the total that shall not exceed the rate established in section 10-
4-1-5, table 7 of this chapter.
   C.   Odors: No continuous, frequent, or repetitive emission of odors or odor
causing substances, which would be offensive beyond any property line of any
industrial use, will be permitted. An odor emitted no more than fifteen (15)
minutes in any one day shall not be deemed as continuous frequent, or
repetitive within the meaning of these regulations. The existence of an odor
shall be presumed when analysis by a competent technician demonstrates that a
discernible odor is being emitted. Any process, which may involve the creation
or emission of any odors, shall be provided with a primary and secondary
safeguard system so that control will be maintained if the primary safeguard
system fails. The rules and regulations of the Illinois air pollution control
board shall be complied with.
   D.   Radiation Hazards: The handling of radioactive materials, the discharge
of such materials into air and water, and the disposal of radioactive wastes
shall be in conformance with: 1) the applicable regulations of the nuclear
regulatory commission, and 2) the applicable regulations of any instrumentality
of the state of Illinois.
   E.   Fire And Explosive Hazards:
      1.   The provisions of 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 210/1001 et seq.,
shall be complied with, and no explosives shall be stored, used or manufactured
without first submitting to the zoning officer a certificate of compliance from
the Illinois department of mines and minerals.
      2.   No gasoline or other inflammables or explosives shall be stored
unless the location, plans and construction conforms to the laws and
regulations of the state of Illinois and have the approval of the state
division of fire prevention of the department of public safety.
   F.   Glare And Heat: Every use and activity shall be so operated that it
does not emit heat or heated air beyond the boundary of the lot on which it is
located. No direct or sky reflected glare shall emanate from any use or
activity so as to be visible at any point on or beyond the boundary of the lot
on which such use or other applicable ordinances, nor to activities of a
temporary or of an emergency nature. Night lighting necessary for safety and
the protection of property is excluded from this provision.
   G.   Electromagnetic Interference: There shall be no electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that does not conform to
the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
   H.   Electromagnetic Spillage: There shall be no spillage from
electromagnetic fields upon adjacent properties in excess of those permitted in
the conditional use permit. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-1-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The Zoning Officer shall enforce the provisions of this section 10-4-1.
   A.   If, during the one year period that the escrow deposit is held, the
Zoning Officer believes there is a reasonable probability that the regulations
of this section 10-4-1 are being violated, he may employ a qualified technician
or technicians to perform investigations, measurements, and analyses to
determine whether or not the regulations are being violated, and may pay their
reasonable fees out of the aforementioned escrow deposit, regardless of the
outcome of the investigations. If the reasonable fees of such technician or
technicians exceed the amount of any available escrow deposit, and if a
violation of this section 10-4-1 is discovered, the fees may be recorded as a
penalty in the same manner as, and in addition to, the penalty specified in
chapter 11 of this title.
   B.   In cases not covered by escrow deposit but in which, in the opinion of
the Zoning Officer, there is a reasonable probability that any use or occupancy
violates the regulations of this section 10-4-1, he is hereby empowered to
employ a qualified technician or technicians to perform investigations,
measurements and analyses to determine whether or not the regulations of this
section 10-4-1 are being violated. In the event that a violation is found to
exist, the violators shall be liable for the reasonable fees of the technicians
employed to perform such investigations, measurements, and analyses. Such fees
may be recovered as a penalty in the same manner as, and in addition to, the
penalties specified in chapter 11 of this title.
   C.   In addition, the Village may require the installation, maintenance and
operation by the offending industry of continuous measuring or recording
instruments to demonstrate the operation and to ensure continuous compliance
with the prescribed standards. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-2: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS:
See section 4-6-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-3: STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL USES:
   A.   General Requirements: In order to accomplish the general purposes of
this title for certain uses, otherwise permitted as a matter of right, are
required to meet one or more additional conditions of development. These
conditions are applicable to all special uses. No hearing or special review
process is required to develop a special use.
   B.   Uses: The following uses shall be subject to the regulations of this
section as well as those of the remainder of this title:
      1.   Childcare Facility (Listed In Section 10-3B-2, Table 1 Of This
Title, As "S"):
         a.   Development and operation must conform to State regulations.
         b.   An off street passenger loading area must be provided if use is
located on a collector or arterial street, except for Cedar Avenue.
         c.   In current Districts AG, NC, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4 and
prior Districts SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, R1 and R2, childcare facilities may only be
approved when: 1) operated as a home occupation with up to seven (7) children,
or 2) when located on a site with a school, church, community center or other
public or semipublic building equipped for multiuse purposes; and in either
case, such facilities shall meet the conditions set forth in subsections B1a
and B1b of this section.
      2.   Emergency Care, Trauma Center:
         a.   Must be located with primary access directly onto collector
street.
      3.   All Outdoor Vehicle Sales And/Or Service Uses: All outdoor vehicle
sales and/or service uses (except those requiring authorization as a
conditional use permit) shall be permitted only as special uses and shall be
required to comply with the following additional conditions or obtain the
required approval(s) as follows:
         a.   A fence or other screening shall be installed as needed around
the subject property as determined by the Zoning Officer in order to screen
vehicles being serviced or waiting to be serviced.
         b.   Exterior lighting plan shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer
for his prior written approval.
         c.   Access to and from the subject property shall be approved in
advance in writing by the Zoning Officer.
         d.   Customer parking area and number and location of parking spaces
shall be approved in advance in writing by the Zoning Officer.
         e.   Number of vehicles and rotation of vehicles kept and/or displayed
on the property shall be approved in advance in writing by the Zoning Officer.
         f.   Number of any inoperable vehicles and the length of time
permitted to remain on property shall be approved in advance in writing by the
Zoning Officer, but notwithstanding such approval, no inoperable vehicles shall
be in an unscreened area for more than two (2) hours on any day.
         g.   The number of vehicles allowed on the subject property at any one
time shall be approved in advance in writing by the Zoning Officer.
         h.   All setbacks from property lines shall be approved in advance in
writing by the Zoning Officer.
         i.   All signs and their locations shall be approved in advance in
writing by the Zoning Officer.
         j.   No display of items shall be permitted in any public right-of-
way.
      4.   Outside Sales, Storage And/Or Display Uses:
         a.   Within Enclosed Structures; Exceptions: All business, service,
repair, processing, storage or merchandise sales and display shall be conducted
wholly within enclosed structures, except that outside sales, storage, and
display uses shall be permitted as a special use when such outside sales and
display are accessory to inside sales on the same lot and when authorized by
one or more of the following exceptions:
            (1)   The sale of automotive fuels, lubricants, coolants,
windshield washer fluid, packaged salt products, firewood, mulch, in automotive
service stations.
            (2)   Nursery stock, garden and farm equipment and/or supplies, and
outdoor furniture and recreation or play equipment.
            (3)   Propane sales (i.e., tank exchanges and refilling of tanks
for consumer use).
            (4)   Sale of new or used automobiles, trucks, motorcycles,
trailers, boats or any other recreation vehicles when all are in operable
condition.
            (5)   Vending machines, in conjunction with another permitted use.
            (6)   Outdoor recreational uses, including swimming pools, golf
courses, golf driving ranges and miniature golf and parking lots.
            (7)   Drive-in and drive-through restaurants.
            (8)   Drive-in financial institutions.
            (9)   Building materials, when enclosed and fully screened by a
fence.
            (10)   Community wide events with the prior written permission of
the Village Board.
         b.   Standards: All outside sales, storage and/or display uses shall
be special uses and shall conform to the following standards:
            (1)   All items shall be displayed wholly upon the lot or parcel on
which the principal sales structure is located.
            (2)   Items shall not be displayed or sold upon public property or
within any public right-of-way, except for community events referred to in
subsection B4a(10) of this section.
            (3)   All items displayed outdoors shall be so displayed in a neat
and orderly manner or screened from view by a fence.
            (4)   The outside sales, storage, and/or display of items shall not
affect or impair the safe movement of vehicles or pedestrians.
      5.   Commercial Recreation Uses, Outdoor (If Listed In Section 10-3B-2,
Table 1 Of This Title As "S"):
         a.   Must be located with primary access directly onto a collector
street.
         b.   Outdoor lighting must conform to the standards of the SB Zone for
all uses and each lighting type. (See chapter 6, article B of this title.)
      6.   Retail Sales As An Accessory Use To Light Industrial Uses:
         a.   Area devoted to display and sales of retail items shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area.
      7.   Tattoo Studio: A tattoo studio may be located by right as a special
use within the SB zoning district but only if the location of the proposed
tattoo studio will be at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any other
existing tattoo studio (as measured from building to building). (Ord. 2015-01-
02, 1-28-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-02-03, 2-4-2019; Ord. 2020-01-01, 1-6-2020)
10-4-4: STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN CONDITIONAL USES:
In order to accomplish the general purposes of the plan, certain unusual uses
need special consideration. Such uses need special regulations to ensure
compatibility with the existing development. Often the effects of these uses on
nearby areas cannot be foreseen until a specific site has been proposed.
Therefore, requests for these uses must be given special consideration and
should be located relative to the existing development pattern. These uses are
not permitted automatically, but are subjective to the regulations of this
section and the procedure required for a conditional use permit under section
10-7-2 of this title.
   A.   Requirements: No conditional use permit shall be issued unless the
following standards are met:
      1.   Location: The site shall be so situated that the proposed use is
compatible with the existing or planned future development of the area.
      2.   Zone Requirements: All regulations of the zone in which a
conditional use is located shall apply to such uses, except where specifically
amended by the conditions under which the conditional use permit is granted.
      3.   Lot Area: A conditional use shall be located on a lot or a zoning
lot, which conforms to the zone regulations, unless the lot area requirement is
specified in this section.
      4.   Application Requirements: An application for a conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by the following information and exhibits:
         a.   A plot plan of the proposed site and of the surrounding area
within three hundred feet (300') of the site showing the location of and name
of all streets, easements, and railroad or utility rights-of-way; the location
of any subdivided lands; and the location of any parks, other public open
spaces or uses, residences, or other permanent structures.
         b.   A drawing showing the proposed development of the site.
         c.   Any additional information specified in this section for the
particular use.
      5.   General Requirements: In addition to the specific requirements for
specific proposed conditional uses, every conditional use must meet the
following standards which may include as a condition of approval various
improvements and restrictions to ensure compatibility with existing and
anticipated uses as well as the trend of development in proximity to the
proposed conditional use:
         a.   Suitable landscaping and/or buffer yard.
         b.   Restrictions of the use of setback areas, including the
prohibition or regulation of parking or storage within the setback areas.
         c.   Restrictions on signage.
         d.   Specific parking requirements at specific locations on the site.
         e.   An approved lighting plan with illumination standards.
         f.   Limitations of the hours of operation.
         g.   Limitations on or standards for the external facade of any
buildings or other structures.
         h.   The minimum acreage necessary to reasonably accommodate the
proposed conditional use.
         i.   Such conditions as are necessary to ensure that the use does not
generate noise or air pollution, or otherwise constitute a nuisance to other
uses in proximity to the proposed conditional use.
         j.   Such other terms and conditions as determined by the village
board, which are useful and expedient in permitting the conditional use but at
the same time preserving the zoning integrity of the proximate area, and
ensuring compatibility of the proposed conditional use with existing and
anticipated uses in proximity to the proposed conditional use.
      6.   Approval: Approval of the village board per section 10-7-2 of this
title.
   B.   Uses: The following uses shall be subject to the regulations of this
section as well as the remainder of this title, and to any additional
requirements imposed in the public interest to cover circumstances unique to
the selected site:
      1.   Reserved.
      2.   Sheltered Care Home:
         a.   Development and operation must conform to state regulations.
      3.   Kennel, Private And Commercial:
         a.   A maximum of five (5) dogs per acre shall be permitted.
         b.   Outdoor containments for dogs shall be located a minimum of
twenty feet (20') from all property lines.
      4.   Stables, Private And Commercial: No commercial or private stables
listed as a conditional use in section 10-3B-2, table 1 of this title shall be
permitted unless the following criteria are met. The following criteria apply
only to stables:
         a.   The minimum lot size area shall be five (5) acres.
            (1)   If any horses or other riding animals are kept outside of any
building, the maximum number of such animals shall be one animal per one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.
            (2)   If any riding animals are kept inside a building, the maximum
number of such animals shall be limited to the building capacity to house,
show, and ride said animals. A stall shall be provided for each animal. The
minimum dimensions of each stall shall be ten feet by ten feet (10' x 10').
         b.   The following minimum setbacks shall be provided:
            (1)   Stables, corrals, and piles of manure, feed, and bedding
shall be located no closer than seventy five feet (75') from any street or
nonresidential lot line, and one hundred feet (100') from any adjoining
residential property, in order to minimize odor and nuisance problems. Pastures
may extend to any street or nonresidential lot line, and to within ten feet
(10') of any adjoining residential property.
            (2)   Manure from stable operations shall not be applied or stored
on land that is closer than one hundred feet (100') to any adjoining property.
         c.   A vegetative strip at least fifty feet (50') wide shall be
maintained between any corral, manure pile, or application area and any surface
water or well, in order to minimize runoff, prevent erosion, and promote quick
nitrogen absorption.
         d.   In areas with slope of five percent (5%) or less, corrals and
manure piles shall be one hundred fifty feet (150') from a well and two hundred
feet (200') from any surface water, unless the water is upgrade, or there is
adequate diking.
         e.   Corrals, manure piles and manure application areas are prohibited
in areas with slopes greater than five percent (5%) in floodplains,
drainageways, and wetlands.
         f.   Manure shall not be applied closer than seventy five feet (75')
to a well or to any surface water, unless the water is upgrade or there is
adequate diking as determined by the health department.
         g.   For commercial stables, parking spaces are required as follows:
one space for every two (2) riding animals, based on the maximum number of
animals permitted on the property, plus one space for every employee on the
largest shift.
         h.   Special events such as shows, exhibitions, and contests shall
only be permitted when a zoning certificate has been granted and when a
temporary use permit has been secured.
      5.   Cemetery:
         a.   The site proposed for a cemetery shall not interfere with the
development of a system of collector and larger streets in the vicinity. In
addition, the site shall have direct access to a public thoroughfare.
         b.   Any new cemetery shall be located on a site containing at least
twenty (20) acres.
         c.   All burial buildings shall be set back at least eighty feet (80')
from any street bounding the cemetery; and there shall be two (2) side yards
and a rear yard of at least fifty five feet (55') each. A burial building is
any building used for the interment of bodies or other remains of persons who
have died, including mausoleums, vaults, or columbariums.
         d.   All graves or burial lots shall be set back at least thirty feet
(30') from any street bounding the cemetery and there shall be two (2) side
yards and a rear yard of at least twenty five feet (25') each.
         e.   Existing cemeteries may continue to operate in a manner
consistent with the existing development in the area presently covered by a
conditional use permit. Any expansion to land not covered by an existing
conditional use permit must comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
      6.   Child And Adult Daycare Facilities:
         a.   Adult respite care center (listed in section 10-3B-2, table 1 of
this title, as "C"):
            (1)   Development and operation must conform to state regulations.
            (2)   Off street passenger loading area must be provided.
            (3)   In current districts AG, NC, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4 and
prior districts SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, R1 and R2, daycare centers with more than
eight (8) adults may only be approved when located on a site with a school,
church, community center or other public or semipublic building equipped for
multipurposes and meeting conditions in subsections B6a(1) and B6a(2) of this
section.
         b.   Childcare facility (listed in section 10-3B-2, table 1 of this
title as "C"):
            (1)   Development and operation must conform to state regulations.
            (2)   An off street passenger loading area must be provided if use
is located on a collector or arterial street, except for Cedar Avenue.
      7.   Hospital:
         a.   Development and operation must conform to state regulations.
         b.   Off street passenger loading area must be provided.
         c.   Emergency entrance must be located off of collector or arterial
street.
         d.   Must be located with primary access directly onto collector
street.
      8.   Nursing Home Or Convalescent Home:
         a.   Development and operation must conform to state regulations.
         b.   Off street passenger loading area must be provided.
         c.   Must be located with primary access directly onto collector
street.
      9.   Spectator Sports Facility:
         a.   Must be located with primary access directly onto collector
street.
      10.   Commercial Centers:
         a.   All requirements of this title, in addition to the specific
requirements of this section, must be met by any commercial center.
         b.   All individual uses proposed for a commercial center must comply
with section 10-3B-2, table 1 of this title. For example, warehouses would not
be permitted within a commercial center located in the SB district.
         c.   All off street parking spaces and servicing drives shall be
located within the boundaries of the property being developed as a commercial
center.
         d.   Each shop or store shall have a rear or side entrance that is
accessible to a loading area and service drive. Service drives shall be a
minimum of twenty six feet (26') in width and shall be in addition to and not
part of the drives or circulation system used by the vehicles of clientele.
         e.   The arrangement of truck loading and unloading facilities for
each shop or store shall be such that in the process of loading or unloading no
truck will block or extend into any other private or public drive or street
used for vehicular circulation. Loading and delivery zones shall be clearly
marked.
         f.   Each commercial center shall be provided with enclosed waste pens
of sufficient size and number to accommodate all trash and waste stored on the
premises in a convenient manner.
         g.   There shall be no trash burner or incinerator, or any burning of
trash or rubbish on the premises.
         h.   Outlots are permitted in a commercial center provided that: 1)
internal and external vehicular and pedestrian circulation is not adversely
affected; 2) parking and landscaping requirements are met individually for each
outlot and for the primary center; 3) a consistency of design is maintained
between the commercial center and the outlots.
      11.   Drive-Up Facilities:
         a.   May not adversely affect vehicular or pedestrian movement.
      12.   Outdoor Vehicle Sales And/Or Service Uses: These uses which are
authorized only as conditional uses in section 10-3B-2, table 1 of this title
(as "C") shall also meet the conditions for outdoor vehicle sales and/or
service uses and outdoor sales and display uses which are set forth in section
10-4-3, "Standards For Special Uses", of this chapter, and specifically
subsections 10-4-3B3 and B4 of this title.
      13.   Miniwarehouse; Personal Storage Facility:
         a.   Perimeter of property shall be screened with a minimum "D" buffer
yard.
         b.   Any storage area door must not be visible from a public right of
way.
         c.   Building exterior must be designed to complement the appearance
of nearby developed properties, regardless of their zoning district.
      14.   Reserved.
      15.   Recreational Accessory Use:
         a.   Notwithstanding the provisions elsewhere, the following uses are
permitted as accessory uses to permitted recreational uses only after the
issuance of a conditional use permit:
            (1)   Cocktail lounge and dining area;
            (2)   Dining facilities and kitchen;
            (3)   Game rooms and outdoor game courts;
            (4)   Soccer fields.
         b.   The location, size, and intensity of these accessory uses shall
be restricted and determined in relation to the effects of such uses upon the
environment, including effect upon traffic. The restrictions shall be
incorporated in the required conditional use permit.
         c.   In no case shall a recreational accessory use predate the
installation and operation of the principal use. When the principal use ceases
to operate, the accessory use shall immediately cease.
      16.   Commercial Recreation Use, Outdoor (Listed In Section 10-3B-2,
Table 1 Of This Title, As "C"):
         a.   Outdoor lighting must conform to the standards of the SB zone for
all uses and each lighting type. (See chapter 6, article B of this title.)
         b.   Must be located with primary access directly onto a collector
street.
      17.   Drive-In Theater, Tent Theater:
         a.   The site shall contain at least five (5) acres.
         b.   The site shall have direct access to a major street.
         c.   All structures, viewing area, and seating areas shall be set back
at least one hundred feet (100') from any street or boundary line.
         d.   All parking areas and accessways shall be adequately lighted;
however, such lighting shall be shielded to prevent glare or reflection onto
neighboring properties or public streets.
         e.   Off street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions in this zoning ordinance.
         f.   An amusement park, kiddie land, refreshment stand, and/or
souvenir stand may be permitted as accessory uses incidental to, and limited
to, patrons of the principal use.
         g.   For any drive-in theater:
            (1)   The theater screen shall not be visible from any collector or
larger street within two thousand five hundred feet (2,500'). The viewing area
shall be screened in such a manner that it cannot be observed from outside the
property.
            (2)   Off street space for automobiles of patrons awaiting
admission to the theater shall be equal to no less than thirty percent (30%) of
the capacity of the viewing area. All entrances and exits shall be separated,
and internal circulation shall be laid out to provide one-way traffic.
      18.   Reserved.
      19.   Research Laboratory:
         a.   Must conform to all state and federal regulations.
         b.   Work with or production of hazardous materials or wastes is not
permitted.
      20.   Septic Tank Service: Any portion of the lot on which septic tank
service is performed shall be located a minimum of two hundred feet (200') from
areas zoned NC, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, R1, R2, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, and UR4.
      21.   Airports And Heliports:
         a.   The area shall be sufficient and the site otherwise adequate to
meet the standards of the federal aviation agency and the Illinois department
of aeronautics for the class of airport proposed, in accordance with their
published rules and regulations.
         b.   There shall be an adequate number of off street parking spaces at
least equal to the number of spaces in the hangars plus tie down spaces, plus
spaces for accessory uses.
         c.   Any proposed runway or landing strip shall be situated so that
the approach zones are free of any flight obstructions such as towers,
chimneys, other tall structures, or natural obstructions outside the airport
site.
         d.   There shall be sufficient distance between the end of each usable
landing strip and the airport boundary to satisfy the requirements of the
federal aviation agency. If air rights or easements have been acquired from the
owners of abutting properties in which approach zones fall, satisfactory
evidence thereof shall be submitted with the application.
      22.   Reserved.
      23.   Public And Private Utilities, Public Services: Buildings,
structures, and transmission lines not designed primarily for local service
only, including, but not limited to, water, sewerage, gas, telephone, and/or
electric utilities; and police, fire, radio, and television stations, including
broadcasting antennas shall comply with the following:
         a.   Jurisdiction Approval: Applications for permission to operate
waterworks or sewage treatment plants shall be accompanied by a report and a
recommendation from all government entities having jurisdiction. Such
recommendations as to design and construction, type of treatment, source of
water, standards for testing and sampling, and standards for the quality of
effluent shall be incorporated in the conditional use permit.
         b.   Lot Area And Location: The required lot area and location shall
be specified as part of the conditional use permit and be determined in
relation to the proposed use, the intensity of such use, and the effects of
such use upon the environment.
         c.   Fencing Or Screening: If findings indicate that a hazard may
result or that interference with the development or use and enjoyment of
surrounding properties may ensue, fencing or screening with a densely planted
hedge or other shielding material may be required in a manner consistent with
such findings.
         d.   Performance Standards: The proposed structure or use shall
satisfy the performance standards set forth in section 10-4-1 of this chapter.
      24.   Institutional Mixed Use: The institutional mixed use is primarily a
residential and school facility. Other uses subordinate to and directly related
to the primary use, such as medical, health, and physical therapy services for
the resident populations and outpatients with similar needs may be permitted.
The following standards shall apply to all approved uses and shall not be
varied:
         a.   Commercial Uses: Limited commercial uses may be permitted when
they are clearly subordinate and accessory to the primary uses, such as when
they serve an educational or therapeutic value for residents and all sales
proceeds to benefit the primary uses. Such commercial uses shall occupy no more
than two percent (2%) of the total floor area of all buildings, measured from
the exterior footprint, or five thousand (5,000) square feet, whichever is
less. Gift shops, craft shops, or plant/flower shops are examples of uses which
may be permitted.
         b.   Agricultural Uses: Limited agricultural uses such as nurseries or
greenhouses may be permitted, which are subordinate to and clearly relate to
the primary uses, and serve an educational or therapeutic value for residents
and all sales proceeds benefit the primary uses. Agricultural uses shall not
include the raising or sale of agricultural animals such as, but not limited
to, sheep, pigs, cows, goats, chickens, ducks, ostriches, and the like.
         c.   Prohibited Uses: Hospitals, commercial recreation, automobile
related uses, and industry (except handicrafts) are prohibited, as well as such
other uses, as may be determined by the village board at time of conditional
use permit approval.
         d.   Floor Area Ratio: The maximum floor area ratio shall not exceed
the percentage listed in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 12 of this title.
         e.   Impervious Surface Ratio: The maximum impervious surface ratio
shall not exceed the percentage shown on the site capacity chart in subsection
10-8-1C of this title.
         f.   Height: The maximum height of principal buildings shall not
exceed forty feet (40'). An exception shall be permitted for architectural
purposes to the primary building or buildings in the campus to permit a portion
of such building to be a maximum of fifty feet (50') in height, but not to
exceed ten percent (10%) of the building's floor area, for such architectural
purpose, such as a clock tower or campanile.
         g.   Setbacks: The minimum front yard setback from major arterials,
such as Grand Avenue, Route 83, Grass Lake Road, Cedar Lake Road, Monaville
Road, Fairfield Road, and Route 59, shall be one hundred feet (100'). A fifty
foot (50') setback shall be required from all other property lines. As to all
buildings built after the issuance of the conditional use permit, the setbacks
from internal public streets shall be thirty feet (30') and from private roads
shall be ten feet (10').
         h.   Campus Development Plan: As part of the approval process, the
applicant shall submit a campus development plan indicating the campus long
range plans and showing all proposed uses, buildings, roads, and other
structures. The campus plan shall contain information on each building's size,
use, and character. If the campus is to be developed in phases, the plan shall
indicate the proposed phasing. The campus development plan shall contain a
thorough site analysis, a framework plan showing future intent, and
architectural drawings to illustrate campus character. Engineering sufficient
to demonstrate that adequate utilities and stormwater capacity are available or
shall be installed with the campus plan.
         i.   Approval Of Campus Development Plan: The campus development plan
permits the village to review the long range plans for an institutional mixed
use and the probable impact of the entire campus development, as opposed to
piecemeal reviews, prior to granting approval of the conditional use permit.
The plan shall be a guide, which permits buildings or use development, provided
they are incorporated in the campus development plan. Building permits may be
issued upon determining that the proposed use and building meet all other
village codes and are consistent with the approved campus development plan. Any
substantial deviation for the campus development plan, once approved, shall
require an amendment to the campus development plan and the conditional use
permit. The revised plan shall be reviewed and approved in the same manner as
the original plan.
      25.   Elderly Housing (As Defined In Section 10-2-2 Of This Title):
Elderly housing projects shall be permitted as a conditional use in those
zoning districts so indicated in section 10-3B-2, table 1 of this title,
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Lot Area, Yard And Bulk Requirements: Elderly housing projects
shall be subject to the lot area, yard and bulk requirements listed in chart
4.4.B of this section.
CHART 4.4.B
    Lot Size   Yards                                      Bulk
Use                       Total Min. Abutting Abutting A  Lot          Height Of Height Of
    Area Width Front Rear Side  Side A Street Residential Coverage FAR Principal Accessory
                                                                       Use       Use
    Sq.  Ft.   Ft.   Ft.  Ft.   Ft.  Ft.      Ft.         %        %   Ft. Story Ft. Story
    Ft.
           Lot Size     Yards                                      Bulk
Use                                Total Min. Abutting Abutting A  Lot          Height Of Height Of
           Area   Width Front Rear Side  Side A Street Residential Coverage FAR Principal Accessory
                                                                                Use       Use
           Sq.    Ft.   Ft.   Ft.  Ft.   Ft.  Ft.      Ft.         %        %   Ft. Story Ft. Story
           Ft.
2          3      4     5     6    7     8    9        10          11       12  13  14    15  16
Elderly                                                                            
housing:
First du   8,500  60    30    6    15    6    30       6           30       200 50  4     25  1
Second du  +3,500 +25   30    +4   +8    +4   30       +4          30       200 50  4     25  1
Each
additional +2,000 +5    30    +1   +2    +1   30       +1          30       200 50  4     25  1
du
 
         b.   Size: The maximum size of any elderly housing project shall be no
greater than one hundred (100) dwelling units.
         c.   Subordinate Uses: The subordinate uses contained within an
elderly housing project shall not exceed more than eighteen percent (18%) of
the total floor area.
         d.   Parking: Parking shall be provided at the rate of one space per
dwelling unit.
         e.   Open Space: Elderly housing projects shall provide open space,
which is not less than forty percent (40%) of the gross area of the project.
         f.   Other Conditions: All elderly housing projects must meet the
minimum standards of this zoning ordinance regarding resource protection and
landscaping, as well as the provisions of this section.
      26.   Bulk Material Storage: Bulk material storage shall be permitted as
a conditional use in those zoning districts so indicated in section 10-3B-2 of
this title, table of uses, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Unenclosed (not under roof) stockpiles shall not exceed twenty
feet (20') in height as measured from existing grade.
         b.   Stockpiles and heavy equipment shall be located only in those
areas identified and established at time of issuance of a conditional use
permit for bulk storage.
         c.   Unenclosed (not under roof) heavy equipment shall not exceed
twenty feet (20') in height as measured from existing grade; provided, however,
that equipment with variable height shall be stored in its lowered position.
      27.   Floodplain Uses: Any structure or use, including the placement of
fill material, permitted by the underlying zoning district, may be established
in a floodplain pursuant to the issuance of a conditional use permit. Any such
use, structure or filling shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Filling:
            (1)   Application for such conditional use permit shall be
accompanied by detailed fill plans, showing existing and proposed conditions.
If a structure is to be placed on the fill, the plans shall show the structure
as well.
            (2)   The filling of any lot or parcel shall be permitted only if:
a) that lot or parcel would be a conforming lot if the floodplain was not
present, b) the location, amount or configuration of the buildable area is such
as to preclude the construction of any permitted principal structure or the
establishment of any reasonable permitted principal use, and c) the lot or
parcel has direct access to a public road which is above the flood base
elevation so that the lot or parcel is freely accessible in times of flooding.
            (3)   The filling does not increase the buildable area for the use
and zone in which the property is located to twice or more the minimum required
by chapter 3, article C of this title.
            (4)   The cross sectional area of a riverine floodplain shall not
be reduced by more than two and one-half percent (2.5%) on either side of the
centerline of the watercourse; an inland depressional floodplain may have its
location and contours altered through cut and fill over thirty percent (30%) of
its surface area without a conditional use permit provided all engineering
standards of this subsection are met.
            (5)   The fill material is offset by the excavation within or
contiguous to the floodplain, sited below the high water elevation and above
the groundwater table, developed to balance an equal volume of space usurped by
filling. Further, the placement of fill shall not reduce the water retention
capacity of the floodplain, nor alter or obstruct any drainageway leading to
the floodplain.
            (6)   Fill shall be of a material deemed stable enough to remain
firm and in place during periods of flooding. Fill shall consist of soil or
rock materials only. Further, all fill areas shall be stabilized with material
which will ensure and protect against erosion hazards, undercutting and
undermining. Asphalt shall not be used as a stabilizing material. Runoff and
drainage protection shall be provided to adjacent property owners.
            (7)   The deepening of channels is permitted, but the spoil
material must not be deposited on the floodplain, except in accordance with
these requirements.
            (8)   Compensatory storage shall be provided to offset the storage
lost through the filling.
            (9)   All changes in velocity, depth of flood elevation or storage
shall be limited to the property of the owner doing the filling or those
property owners who have been granted flood or flow easements, provided that in
no event shall an increase in flood elevation be permitted if it would affect
any existing building or bring any building to within two feet (2') of the
flood elevation.
            (10)   In no instance shall the depth of fill in a riverine
floodplain exceed three feet (3'), nor shall any fill be placed within twenty
five feet (25') of the stream channel or in a location which might be
endangered by or accelerate a meander. In an inland depressional floodplain,
the depth of fill measured from the natural grade to the new surface shall not
exceed five feet (5').
            (11)   Fill on the following soils shall require excavation to a
base of clay before any such fill is installed: marsh, houghton muck and
houghton peat.
         b.   Structures:
            (1)   All structures and their access shall be raised so that no
floor, or its horizontal structural supports or any horizontal internal utility
line has less than two feet (2') of clearance between its lowest point and the
base flood elevation. Vehicular access to such structures shall comply with the
same standards in order to ensure emergency or fire access during periods of
high water. Any reduction of cross sectional area due to vertical supporting
members shall be offset by compensatory storage. Following construction, a
registered professional engineer shall prepare and submit to the zoning officer
a certification of the "as built" elevation of the lowest floor of any such
structure. The zoning officer shall maintain a record of this certification.
            (2)   Any structure placed in the floodplain shall be anchored
firmly to prevent floodwaters from carrying it downstream. Such anchoring shall
be sufficient to withstand a flood velocity of six feet (6') per second. The
zoning officer shall require the applicant to submit the written opinion of a
registered professional engineer that the proposed structural design meets this
standard.
            (3)   Any construction permitted pursuant to this section located
wholly or partially within any floodplain shall, to the maximum extent
practical below an elevation of two feet (2') above the base flood elevation,
utilize flood resistant materials and utility equipment.
      28.   Medical Cannabis Cultivation Center:
         a.   Medical cannabis cultivation centers located within the village
shall be and are required to be established, operated, and maintained in full
compliance with the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act
(hereinafter, the "compassionate use act") and all other applicable village
ordinances and Illinois statutes.
         b.   Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall not be located within
a specified distance of preexisting public or private preschools, elementary
schools, secondary schools, daycare centers, home daycare, group daycare homes,
part day childcare facilities, or any area zoned for residential use, as and to
the extent provided by the compassionate use act and all other applicable
Illinois statutes.
         c.   Medical cannabis cultivation centers shall not be located in any
building containing, in whole or in part, residential uses or any building
which is zoned for residential uses.
         d.   Drive-through facilities accessory to such medical cannabis
cultivation centers shall not be permitted.
         e.   Outdoor, window, or on site media displays of merchandise and/or
products related to a medical cannabis cultivation center shall not be
permitted.
         f.   All operations of a medical cannabis cultivation center must be
fully enclosed within a locked building.
      29.   Medical Cannabis Dispensing Organization:
         a.   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations located within the
village shall be and are required to be established, operated, and maintained
in full compliance with the Compassionate Use Act and all other applicable
Village ordinances and Illinois Statutes.
         b.   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall not be located
within a specified distance of preexisting public or private preschools,
elementary schools, secondary schools, daycare centers, home daycare, group
daycare homes or part day childcare facilities as and to the extent provided by
the Compassionate Use Act and all other applicable Illinois Statutes.
         c.   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations shall not be located in
any building containing, in whole or in part, residential uses or in any
building which is zoned for residential uses.
         d.   Drive-through facilities accessory to such medical cannabis
dispensing organization shall not be permitted.
         e.   Outdoor, window, or on site media displays of merchandise and/or
products related to a medical cannabis dispensing organization shall not be
permitted.
         f.   All exterior signage associated with a medical cannabis
dispensing organization shall be in compliance with the sign regulations
established in this zoning ordinance. In addition, no exterior signage, shall
use the word "marijuana", "cannabis", or any other word, phrase or symbol
commonly understood to refer to marijuana or cannabis.
      30.   Crematory:
         a.   The crematory facility shall only be permitted on a site which is
all under one (1) ownership and which has an area of not less than three (3)
acres. This facility shall be the only privately- owned structure and/or use on
the site.
         b.   The crematory facility shall only be permitted as the sole
occupant in a building, which does not have any other occupants, and no other
occupants shall be permitted in such building.
         c.   The crematory facility shall be located no closer than:
            (1)   Five hundred feet (500') from any licensed facility where
medical, food or beverage production or packaging is located; and
            (2)   Five hundred feet (500') from any other crematory or funeral
home; and
            (3)   One thousand feet (1,000') from any residential structure.
   31.   Conditional Use(s) Use(s) for Adult Use Cannabis Dispensing
Organization, Adult Use Cannabis Craft Grower, and Adult Use Cannabis Infuser
Organization or Infuser:
      a.   An Adult Use Craft Grower may be authorized only when granted a
Conditional Use by separate ordinance and only when located within the Village
sharing the same premises with a Medical Cannabis Dispensing Organization and/
or with an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
      b.   Not more than two (2) Conditional Uses for Adult Use Cannabis
Dispensing Organizations shall be authorized within the Village.
      c.   An Adult Use Infuser Organization may be authorized only when
granted a Conditional Use by separate ordinance and only when co-located within
the Village and sharing the same premises with a Medical Cannabis Dispensing
Organization and/or with an Adult Use Dispensing Organization.
      d.   An Adult Use Dispensing Organization and/or a Medical Cannabis
Dispensing Organization must have a minimum of twenty (20) on-site parking
places, but more onsite parking may be required by an authorizing Conditional
Use Ordinance.
      e.   No Conditional Use for an Adult Use Dispensing Organization or for a
Medical Cannabis Dispensing Organization shall be authorized on a site which is
within one hundred (100) feet of any church and/or school, which distance shall
be measured from property line to property line. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-28-2015;
amd. Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016; Ord. 2017-06-01, 6-28-2017; Ord. 2022-11-03,
11-27-2022)
10-4-5: ACCESSORY, TEMPORARY, AND OTHER USES; EXCEPTIONS; IMPROVEMENT
GUARANTEES:
10-4-5-1: STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses: The uses of lands, buildings and other structures
permitted in each of the zones established in this zoning ordinance are
designated by listing the principal uses permitted in section 10-3B-2, table 1
of this title. It is the intent of this section to regulate uses customarily
incidental to any principal use permitted in the zone.
   B.   Standards: Each permitted accessory use shall meet the following
standards:
      1.   It shall be customarily incidental to the principal use established
on the same lot, and shall serve no other principal use or purpose.
      2.   It shall be subordinate in area, floor area, intensity, extent and
purpose to the principal use.
      3.   It shall contribute to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
users of the principal use.
      4.   An accessory structure, which is not attached to nor part of a
principal structure, may be located within the required side or rear yard
setback, but not the front yard setback, provided that it is located at least
five feet (5') from the lot line and further provided that the structure shall
not be located in any area burdened by a recorded easement, such as, but not
limited to, a utility easement.
      5.   No accessory structure or use shall be permitted without a principal
structure or use. Any question of whether a particular use is permitted as an
accessory use by the provisions of this section shall be determined by the
Zoning Officer pursuant to that officer's authority to interpret the provisions
of this title. All accessory uses shall conform to the requirements of section
10-3B-2, table 1 of this title. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-5-2: STANDARDS FOR TEMPORARY USES:
The following regulations govern the operation of certain transitory or
seasonal uses:
   A.   Permit Required: Application for a temporary use permit shall be made
to the Zoning Officer for any temporary use and a permit fee therefor shall be
paid to the Village in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Code.
   B.   Required Information For Permit Application:
      1.   A survey or legal description of the property to be used, rented or
leased for the temporary use, including any information necessary to accurately
portray the property.
      2.   A detailed description of the proposed use.
      3.   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements,
sanitation facilities and availability of parking spaces to service the
proposed use.
      4.   Number of days and dates of the proposed temporary use permit with
the hours of operations.
      5.   Letter from the owner of the property, if owned by someone other
than the applicant, granting permission to use the property.
   C.   General Requirements For All Temporary Use Permits:
      1.   No permanent or temporary structure shall be erected without
acquiring a building permit and inspections made.
      2.   No permanent or temporary lighting or electrical systems are to be
installed without acquiring an electrical permit and inspections made.
      3.   When food or beverages are to be consumed on the premises, a
document from the Lake County health department, regarding food and beverage
preparation and sales, and toilet facilities, shall be provided.
      4.   The appropriate liquor permit is to be obtained from the Lake Villa
liquor commissioner as required.
      5.   The temporary use is to be confined to the dates and hours as
specified on the temporary use permit.
      6.   Public parking for the exclusive use of the temporary use is to be
provided and a stabilized drive to the parking area is to be maintained.
   D.   Uses:
      1.   Christmas Tree Sales: In any permitted zone, a temporary use permit
may be issued for the display and open lot sales of Christmas trees.
         a.   Requirements:
            (1)   The temporary use permit shall be valid for a period not to
exceed forty five (45) days.
            (2)   No open fires for the disposal of tree trimmings, scrap wood
or other material shall be permitted.
            (3)   A permit shall be acquired for any security trailer or shed
that is proposed to be used on the property.
            (4)   Documentation from the Lake County health department for
approval on any temporary toilet facilities for security personnel is required.
            (5)   Within fifteen (15) days after the completion of the event,
the site is to be cleared of all debris and temporary structures.
            (6)   A cash bond in an amount as specified from time to time in
Section 1-18-1 of this Village Code, which amount the zoning officer or his
designated agent shall determine is reasonably necessary to assure the cleanup
of the site at the cessation of the temporary use, or a signed contract with a
disposal firm which covers the cleanup of the site after the cessation of the
temporary use.
         b.   Exception: When the principal use of the property is a garden
center or a greenhouse and/or nursery center, a temporary use permit shall not
be required.
      2.   Carnival Or Circus, Religious Tent Meeting, Tent Theater And Events
Of Public Interest (Including, But Not Limited To, Outdoor Concerts, Auctions,
Snowmobile Events, Boating Events, Etc.): In any permitted zone, a temporary
use permit may be issued for a carnival or circus, religious tent meeting, tent
theater and events of public interest.
         a.   Use is to be confined to the dates and hours specified on the
temporary use permit.
         b.   Public parking for the exclusive use of the facility is to be
provided and a stabilized drive to the parking area is to be maintained. It is
the responsibility of the operators of the event to guide traffic to these
areas and to keep patrons from parking along the shoulder or curb of the road
in the vicinity of the event.
         c.   Traffic control arrangements in the vicinity, at major
intersections, are to be arranged by the operators of the event with the Lake
Villa police department. Any cost of additional police manpower is to be paid
by the operators of the event. Payment is to be arranged and paid for prior to
the start of the event.
         d.   A cash bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), or such higher amount not to exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), as the zoning officer may determine is reasonably necessary to
assure cleaning and repair of the public rights of way, which may be
necessitated by this temporary use.
         e.   Public right of way shall be cleaned daily by the operators of
the event of any debris, garbage, mud or other materials that are deposited on
the public right of way as a result of the event.
         f.   Within fifteen (15) days after the completion of the event the
site is to be cleared of all debris and temporary structures.
         g.   A cash bond in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00) or
such higher amount, not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), which
amount the zoning officer shall determine is reasonably necessary to assure the
cleanup of the site at the cessation of the temporary use, or a signed contract
with a disposal firm which covers the cleanup of the site after the cessation
of the temporary use.
         h.   Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided.
      3.   Contractor's Office And Equipment Sheds: In any zone, a temporary
use permit may be issued for each contractor's temporary office(s) and
equipment shed(s) incidental to a construction project.
         a.   The office or shed shall not contain sleeping or cooking
accommodations.
         b.   The permit shall be valid for not more than one year, but is
renewable on a yearly basis upon approval of the zoning officer.
         c.   The office or shed shall be removed upon completion of the
construction project.
         d.   Enclosed trailers of any kind used for an office or equipment
storage shall require a permit for each trailer.
         e.   The office(s), shed(s) and trailer(s) shall be removed upon
completion of the construction project.
         f.   Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided.
         g.   The number of trailers shall be the lesser of: 1) one trailer per
lot, or 2) six (6) trailers per subdivision.
      4.   Real Estate Sales Office(s): In any zone, a temporary use permit may
be issued for a temporary real estate sales office(s) in any new subdivision,
which has been approved in accordance with the Lake Villa subdivision
regulations.
         a.   The office(s) shall contain no sleeping or cooking
accommodations.
         b.   The permit shall be valid for not more than one year, but is
renewable on a yearly basis upon approval of the zoning officer.
         c.   The office(s) shall be removed upon completion of the development
of the subdivision.
         d.   A model home(s) may be used as a temporary sales office(s) with
the issuance of a temporary use permit in addition to any building permits.
         e.   Adequate sanitary facilities shall be provided.
      5.   Stands, Temporary Sale And Temporary Uses: In any commercial or
industrial zone, a temporary use permit may be issued for temporary sales
stands for hot dogs and other foods, novelty items and other products.
         a.   Approval from the Lake County health department must be obtained
if food is being sold.
         b.   A permit shall be valid for no longer than ten (10) days.
Exception to this is if the primary use is the sale of hot dogs or other food
items. Then a permit shall be valid for no longer than six (6) months in any
calendar year.
         c.   The temporary sale stand shall be located at least four feet (4')
from any buildings on the property.
         d.   Adequate off street parking shall be provided for the temporary
use in addition to required parking for any other uses existing on the
property.
         e.   Written permission from the owner of the property on which the
sales are to be conducted must accompany the application.
         f.   Hours of operation shall be specified in the temporary use
permit.
      6.   Temporary Shelter: In the event of a fire or natural disaster which
results in the partial or total demolition of a single- family residence,
making it unfit for human habitation, the zoning officer may, upon application
from the owner of such residence, issue a temporary use permit for the use of a
mobile home during rehabilitation of the original residence or construction of
a new residence.
         a.   Mobile home must be placed on the lot of the home that was
damaged or destroyed.
         b.   Required water and sanitary facilities must be provided and
approved by the Lake County health department.
         c.   The permit is to be limited to six (6) months, but in the event
of circumstances beyond the control of the owner, the zoning officer may extend
the permit for a period or periods not to exceed sixty (60) days, and the
foregoing only provided application is made fifteen (15) days prior to the
expiration of the original permit.
         d.   The trailer or mobile home is to be removed from the property
upon issuance of an occupancy permit for the new or rehabilitated residence.
         e.   No temporary use permit shall be renewed for a suspension period
of two (2) years subsequent to the expiration of temporary use permit for any
person who fails to abide by all applicable temporary use conditions, or fails
to comply with any other applicable ordinances. "Person", for the purposes of
this section, shall mean and include any individual, association, corporation,
partnership or any other legal entity. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord.
2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-4-5-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to permit the establishment of
home occupations that are compatible with the residential districts in which
they are located.
   B.   Definition: A home occupation is an accessory use of a dwelling unit
that is:
      1.   Used for gainful employment that involves the provision, assembly,
processing or sale of goods and/or services.
      2.   Incidental and secondary to the residential use of the structure and
does not change the essential residential character of the dwelling unit.
The fact that a particular occupation or profession does not directly or
indirectly impose a charge or receive a fee or other remuneration is not
determinative of whether that activity falls within the definition of "home
occupation".
   C.   General Requirements And Performance Criteria: All home occupations
shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   The operator of every home occupation shall reside in the dwelling
unit in which the home occupation operates.
      2.   The home occupation use shall be conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed structure.
      3.   The home occupation shall not interfere with the delivery of
utilities or other services to the area.
      4.   The home occupation shall not generate any noise, vibrations, smoke,
dust, odor, heat, glare, or electrical interference with radio or television
transmission in the area that would exceed that which is normally produced by a
dwelling unit in a zoning district used solely for residential purposes. No
mechanical equipment shall be used on the premises, except such that is
normally used for on site domestic or household purposes.
      5.   No toxic, explosive, flammable, radioactive or other restricted or
hazardous material shall be used, sold or stored on the site.
      6.   The home occupation shall not change the essential residential
character of the dwelling unit.
      7.   There shall be no alteration of the residential appearance of the
premises, including the creation of a separate, or exclusive, business entrance
(s).
      8.   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building or
structure.
      9.   Signs for home occupations shall be prohibited.
      10.   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
      11.   No commodity or good not produced on the premises shall be sold on
the premises nor displayed on the exterior or interior of the premises, or
warehoused on the premises for sale elsewhere. This does not preclude taking
orders for sales or provision of services off site.
      12.   No outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies, or
equipment shall be allowed.
      13.   The home occupation shall, at all times, comply with all other
applicable laws and ordinances.
      14.   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, events,
gatherings, or parties intended to promote the sale of products from catalogs
or from similar sources shall be permitted on the condition that such
activities comply with the other requirements of this section.
   D.   Specific Requirements: In addition to the general conditions set forth
in this section, the following specific conditions shall also be met:
      1.   The total area used for the home occupation shall not exceed fifteen
percent (15%) or four hundred (400) square feet (whichever is less) of the
habitable floor area of the dwelling.
      2.   The direct sale of products off display shelves or racks shall be
prohibited.
      3.   No more than one person, other than a resident of the dwelling unit,
shall be employed on premises in connection with the operation of the home
occupation.
      4.   No more than three (3) clients shall, at one time, avail themselves
to a product and/or service provided by a home occupation nor shall more than
six (6) clients avail themselves to a product and/or service during a twenty
four (24) hour period.
      5.   Off street parking shall be required for all employees of a home
occupation. Off street parking for home occupations shall comply with chapter
6, article A, "Parking And Design", of this title.
      6.   Deliveries pertaining to the home occupation shall be limited to
such deliveries as would be normal and incidental to a residential use.
Further, traffic circulation shall not be restricted or disturbed as a result
of a delivery to a home occupation.
   E.   Permitted Home Occupations: Permitted home occupations shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Attorney, CPA, salesman, architect/landscape architect, engineer,
interior designer, graphic artist, word processor, and computer consultant.
      2.   Art studios provided no retail business is conducted on the
premises.
      3.   Domestic crafts such as seamstress, sewing, tailoring, weaving and
washing and ironing.
      4.   Home daycare operations as defined in section 2.18 of the child care
act of 1969.
      5.   Word processing and typing services.
      6.   Therapists.
      7.   Social workers.
      8.   Telephone sales.
      9.   Teaching, instructing, tutoring, or counseling (limited to 3 pupils
at any one time).
      10.   Hairdressers and barbers.
      11.   Production of baked goods, consistent with the Home Kitchen
Operation Act (410 ILCS 625/3.6), provided, however, baked goods shall not be
directly distributed to the customers from the residential property on which
the baked goods are produced, i.e., customers purchasing such goods are
prohibited from coming to the residential property to pick up such baked goods.
      12.   Other uses similar to those listed in this subsection E, as
determined by the zoning officer.
   F.   Prohibited Home Occupations: Certain uses by their nature of investment
or operation have a pronounced tendency, once commenced, to expand beyond the
scope of activity permitted for home occupations, and thereby impair the
integrity of the residential district in which they are located. For this
reason, the following uses, regardless of their compliance with the standards
in this section, are prohibited as home occupations:
      1.   Any repair of motorized vehicles such as repair or painting of
autos, trucks, trailer, boats and lawn equipment.
      2.   Animal hospitals, animal rescue uses, kennels, stables, animal
breeding, raising of animals for sale, bird keeping facilities or beekeeping
facilities.
      3.   Antique shops.
      4.   Clubs, including fraternities and sororities.
      5.   Funeral homes.
      6.   Medical cannabis cultivation center.
      7.   Medical cannabis dispensing organization.
      8.   Nursing homes.
      9.   Offices, medical/dental.
      10.   Restaurants, tearooms, and catering, or other food preparation
businesses, except as specified in subsection E.11. above..
      11.   Retail or wholesale shops, stores or outlets.
      12.   Rooming houses.
      13.   Sale of firearms and/or ammunition.
      14.   Short-term rentals as defined in and as further proscribed in
subsection G. below.
      15.   Tourist homes, bed and breakfast establishments.
      16.   Veterinary clinics.
      17.   Warehousing.
      18.   Welding or machine shops.
      19.   Other uses similar to those listed in this subsection F, as
determined by the zoning officer.
   G.   Short-Term Rentals:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section
10-4-5-3(G) is to protect and preserve the quiet enjoyment of residential
properties and neighborhoods within the village and to mitigate and/or
eliminate adverse secondary effects some villages and their respective
residents have experienced by reason of short term rental(s), including but not
limited to large gatherings that have little connection to or consideration for
the neighborhoods or neighbors. The secondary effects of short-term rentals may
potentially include excessive noise, overcrowded parking, and even criminal
activity.
      2.   Definitions: For purposes of this section
10-4-5-3(G), the following phrases shall have the definitions as set forth
below:
 
                   All or part of a principal structure or accessory structure
RENTAL PREMISES:   being rented or otherwise let to person(s) other than the
                   owner of the subject property.
                   The accessory use and/or occupancy for a period of less than
                   three (3) months of a principal structure or accessory
                   structure pursuant to a written or oral agreement which
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: permits and/or provides for occupancy of all or part of such
                   structure by any person other than the owner thereof, or an
                   immediate family member of the owner thereof, and whether or
                   not the permission of such occupancy is in exchange for
                   consideration therefor.
 
      3.   Short-Term Rentals Restricted:
         a.   Except as otherwise provided herein, leasing, renting, offering
or inviting the leasing or renting, or otherwise permitting the short-term
rental and/or occupancy of any dwelling and/or accessory structure located
within the village for less than three (3) consecutive months at a time shall
be prohibited, with the exception of a hotel or similar establishment duly
licensed by the village, and such conduct shall be prohibited, whether engaged
in or participated in by the owner(s) of the property, one or more agent(s) of
the property owner(s), and/or by any person(s) leasing, or seeking to lease as
a lessor(s), or renting or seeking to rent as lessee(s) and/or otherwise occupy
a premises as tenant(s) and/or temporary occupant(s) thereof.
         b.   The term of any lease or occupancy agreement which has satisfied
the minimum term required by this section
10-4-5-3(G) may be extended on a month-to-month basis on the condition that the
tenant(s) remain(s) the same.
         c.   Dwellings shall not be leased, or otherwise permitted to be
occupied by other than the same tenant, more than two (2) times during any
consecutive twelve (12) month period unless the rental agreement therefor has
been terminated by reason of a tenant default.
         d.   The restrictions of this section 10-5-4-3(G) shall be applicable
whether the rental premises comprise(s) all or a part of the principal
structure, or all or part of any accessory structure.
         e.   Whether or not consideration is exchanged for the lease and/or
rental of a premises shall not affect the fact that the occupancy thereof is
treated as a short term rental for the purposes of this section 10-5-4-3(G) if
the definition thereof is otherwise applicable to such activity.
         f.   The property owner shall remain responsible for compliance with
all applicable provisions of the Village Code and/or the Village Zoning
Regulations during the term of any rental and/or occupancy agreement and/or
during the term of any occupancy of the rental premises by persons other than
the property owner.
         g.   No temporary structure shall be permitted to be used for a short-
term rental.
         h.   The prohibition on short-term rentals as herein provided shall
not apply when the immediately preceding owner of a property maintains
possession of the dwelling unit after closing on a real estate transaction for
the sale thereof and leases said property back from the successor owner for a
period of time pursuant to a written agreement.
         i.   Each day a principal structure or any accessory structure in the
village is offered for rent as a short term rental, is leased or rented as a
short-term rental, and/or each day a principal structure or any accessory
structure is occupied as a short-term rental, as that term is defined herein,
shall constitute a separate violation of this section 10-5-4-3(G). (Ord. 2015-
01-02, 1-28-2015; amd. Ord. 2021-09-01, 9-20-2021)
10-4-5-4: OTHER USES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fallout Shelters: Fallout shelters are permitted as principal or
accessory uses and structures in any zone, subject to the yard and lot coverage
regulations of the zone. These shelters may contain or be contained in other
structures or may be constructed separately. In addition to shelter use, they
may be used for any principal or accessory use permitted in the zone, subject
to the applicable zone regulations, but shall not be used for principal or
accessory uses prohibited expressly or by implication in the zone.
   B.   Swimming Pools: Private swimming pools are permitted in any residential
zone provided that no swimming pool or part thereof shall protrude into any
required yard. Swimming pools must be fenced or otherwise protected against
intrusion. No private swimming pool shall be operated as a business or as a
private club.
   C.   Fences, Walls And Hedges: This subsection is intended to provide for
the maximum safety of persons using the sidewalks and streets, and to provide
for the maximum enjoyment of the use of property.
      1.   Clear View Of Intersecting Streets: On any corner lot, within the
triangular area formed by the two (2) street centerlines and a third line
connecting two (2) points (1 of which is located on each of the 2 street
centerlines, 100 feet from their junction); nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision
between a height of two and one-half feet (2.5') and ten feet (10') above the
plane surface formed by the centerline grades of the aforementioned streets.
      2.   Height Of Fences, Walls And Hedges: Fences, walls and hedges are
permitted in any required yard except as provided in subsection C1 of this
section, provided they do not exceed eight feet (8') in height at any point on
the property.
   D.   Tents: No tent shall be used, erected or maintained as living quarters.
Tents used in commercial or industrial zones or tents used for camping purposes
wherever permitted shall be of a temporary nature.
   E.   Number Of Buildings Per Lot: In the AG, NC, SR1, SR2, SR3, R1, R2, SR,
UR1, UR2, UR3 and UR3A districts, only one principal building shall be
permitted on any one lot. In the SR4, UR4, CR, SB and LI districts, more than
one principal building shall be permitted on any one lot as an apartment or
townhouse (for a residential development) or as a commercial center (for a
nonresidential development). A commercial center requires a conditional use
permit under the provisions of this title. In any zone where the operations are
governed by performance standards, there shall be no limit on the number of
principal or accessory buildings.
   F.   Division Of A Lot: No recorded lot shall be divided into two (2) or
more lots unless such division results in the creation of lots, each of which
conforms to all of the applicable regulations of the zone in which the property
is located. No further reduction in the size of a recorded lot, which would
render the lot unable to meet the requirements of this zoning ordinance, shall
be permitted.
   G.   Principal Uses Without Buildings: Where a permitted use of land
involves no structures, the use shall comply with all yard and minimum lot
requirements applicable to the zone in which located.
   H.   Number Of Uses Per Building: Three (3) or fewer permitted
nonresidential uses may be conducted within the same building. Four (4) or more
permitted nonresidential uses may be permitted within the same building only
upon the granting of a conditional use permit for a commercial center under the
provisions of this title.
   I.   Adequate Access: Each lot shall have direct access to an improved,
approved street.
   J.   Accessory Structures: In the SR2 cluster and the UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A,
and NC zoning districts in which the rear setback is twenty five feet (25') or
greater, the following uses shall be considered accessory structures and are
permitted up to fifteen feet (15') of the rear yard lot line. They are open
deck, above and in ground swimming pool, gazebo, pergola, trellis, and
pavilion.
Detached garages and sheds shall be constructed in substantial compliance with
subsection 10-4-5-1B4 of this chapter.
Attached garages, porch enclosures, three (3) season rooms, screen rooms,
additions, and anything that is attached to the principal structure that is not
listed in the above permitted accessory structures, shall be constructed in
substantial compliance with the required rear yard setback for a principal
structure. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-28-2015)
10-4-5-5: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
The following exceptions are established to provide relief from the zone
regulations where applicable:
   A.   Height Exceptions: The following structures, or parts thereof, are
exempt from the height limitations set forth in the several zones (except as
limited by any height restriction imposed by any airport authority, port
airport and as limited by regulations for airports and heliports in subsection
10-4-4B21 of this chapter):
      1.   Public utility poles, towers and wires;
      2.   Radio and television antennas and towers;
      3.   Water tanks and standpipes.
   B.   Yard And Building Setback Exceptions: The following structures shall be
allowed to project into or to be constructed in any required yard within the
area otherwise prohibited by a building setback line:
      1.   Bay windows, not to exceed two feet (2');
      2.   Boathouses, private;
      3.   Chimneys, not to exceed two feet (2');
      4.   Clothesline posts;
      5.   Driveways;
      6.   Fences, walls and hedges in accordance with this title;
      7.   Flagpoles;
      8.   Guardhouse or gatehouse;
      9.   Garbage disposal equipment, nonpermanent;
      10.   Island and pumps for gasoline service station, minimum setback of
twenty feet (20');
      11.   Landscape features;
      12.   Overhanging roof, eave, gutter, cornice or other architectural
feature, not to exceed four feet (4');
      13.   Planting boxes;
      14.   Recreational equipment;
      15.   Sidewalks and steps;
      16.   Steps or stairs to a dwelling nonenclosed, not to exceed four feet
(4');
      17.   Terraces (open) and porches (nonenclosed), not to exceed four feet
(4');
      18.   Trees, shrubs, flowers and other plants, in accordance with the
vision requirements of this title;
      19.   Yard and service lighting fixtures, poles;
      20.   Awnings and canopies, not to exceed three feet (3');
      21.   Mailboxes;
      22.   Marquees, not to exceed five feet (5');
      23.   Signs in accordance with the Lake Villa sign ordinance.
   C.   Utility Exemption: Nothing in this zoning ordinance shall impose
restrictions on the type or location of any poles, towers, wires, cables,
conduits, vaults, laterals or any other similar distributing equipment of a
public utility, which is designed and does in fact serve the village of Lake
Villa and its citizens exclusively or is primarily designed and so utilized.
This exemption shall not apply to facilities such as, but not limited to, high
voltage transmission lines designed or utilized to provide service primarily
outside of the village of Lake Villa, and further provided that this exemption
shall not apply to any activities or uses of a public utility, which fail to
satisfy the performance standards set forth in section 10-4-1 of this chapter.
   D.   Park, Recreational And Playground Exemption: The lot area for parks and
playgrounds that are dedicated to the public shall be at least one acre;
however, there is no minimum area requirement for private subdivision parks and
tot lots where suitable provisions ensure that such areas will not be used for
building sites. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-28-2015)
10-4-5-6: IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEES:
   A.   Prior to final approval for any special use, conditional use or any
other use which is not a permitted use within the zoning district in which the
property is situated, the owner and/or developer shall deposit with the village
of Lake Villa cash or other security acceptable to the Village Treasurer of
trustees in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for the estimated cost of the construction of all
public or common improvements as estimated by the village engineer including
all roads, ditches, culverts, sewage treatment plants, sewer, landscaping and
all other common or public improvements in accordance with the standards set
forth in section
11-1-5 of this Village Code.
   B.   All such improvements shall be fully installed and receive the approval
of the village within two (2) years of final approval of any such special use,
conditional use or any of the above described uses, and the provisions of
subsection
11-1-5A1 of this Village Code shall apply thereto. (Ord. 2015-01-02, 1-28-2015;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-4-6: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to:
      1.   Maintain the village's quality, heritage and character by enhancing
its visual appearance through the use of landscaping;
      2.   Enhance environmental conditions by providing shade, air
purification, oxygen regeneration, groundwater recharge, filtering of
stormwater runoff, abatement of noise, glare and heat;
      3.   Screen parking lots and vehicular use areas from view of persons on
streets or adjoining properties;
      4.   Provide transition buffers between different intensity land uses and
zoning districts;
      5.   Help prevent light spillover;
      6.   Preserve and protect existing trees and natural landscape features
from destruction and removal; and
      7.   Promote the preservation and use of native plants.
   B.   Applicability: Unless otherwise expressly stated, the landscaping
standards of this section apply to all of the following:
      1.   The construction of any principal building;
      2.   The addition to or enlargement of any principal building by more
than ten percent (10%) of its existing gross floor area (or smaller additions
if the aggregate effect of such additions over a period of 18 months triggers
the 10 percent threshold);
      3.   The addition to or enlargement of any principal building by more
than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet (or smaller additions if the
aggregate effect of such additions over a period of 18 months triggers the
2,500 square foot threshold);
      4.   The construction or installation of any off street parking lot or
vehicular use area containing five (5) or more parking spaces (or smaller
additions if the aggregate effect of such additions over a period of 18 months
triggers the 5 space threshold); and
      5.   A change in use of the property that requires rezoning to a more
intensive zoning classification or conditional use approval.
   C.   General Exemptions: The following are expressly exempt from compliance
with the landscaping standards of this section:
      1.   The construction or expansion of a single-family dwelling unit, and
      2.   Agricultural uses.
   D.   Street Trees:
      1.   Street trees must be provided as follows:
         a.   At least one canopy tree per thirty three feet (33') of local
street frontage, or portion thereof (trees must be located within 10 feet of
the street right of way);
         b.   At least one canopy tree and one understory tree per fifty feet
(50') of collector street frontage, or portion thereof (trees must be located
within 10 feet of the street right of way);
         c.   At least one canopy tree and two (2) understory trees per fifty
feet (50') of arterial street frontage, or portion thereof (trees must be
located within 15 feet of the street right of way).
      2.   Required street trees may not be located within the right of way;
they must be located within the required setback adjacent to the street.
      3.   Street trees may be clustered when circumstances prevent even
spacing.
   E.   Interior Landscaping For Parking Lots: These interior landscaping
standards apply to all off street parking lots and vehicular use areas
containing five (5) or more off street parking spaces.
      1.   Parking lots must contain at least one hundred sixty (160) square
feet of landscape area per ten (10) parking spaces. Vehicle queuing and
stacking areas, as well as gasoline fueling spaces, will be counted as parking
spaces for purposes of calculating landscaping requirements.
      2.   At least one canopy tree and three (3) shrubs must be provided per
one hundred sixty (160) square feet of required interior landscape area. One
canopy tree may be substituted for four (4) shrubs, but shrubs may not be
substituted for canopy trees.
      3.   Each interior landscape area must have a minimum dimension of eight
feet (8') in any direction and an area of at least one hundred fifty (150)
square feet.
      4.   Interior landscape areas must be constructed with concrete curbing
to minimize damage to plant material.
      5.   Required interior parking lot landscaping may not be used to satisfy
other landscaping requirements of this section.
   F.   Perimeter Landscaping For Parking Lots And Vehicular Use Areas: The
standards of this subsection are intended to screen views of parking lots and
vehicular use areas from streets and roads. They do not apply when such areas
will not be visible from streets or roads.
      1.   Perimeter landscaping standards apply to all parking lots and
vehicular use areas containing five (5) or more parking spaces. Vehicle queuing
and stacking areas, as well as gasoline fueling spaces, will be counted as
parking spaces for purposes of calculating landscaping requirements.
      2.   Parking lots and vehicular use areas must be landscaped and screened
from view of street rights of way with a minimum of one canopy or understory
tree per twenty five (25) linear feet of street frontage (required street trees
may be counted toward satisfying this requirement) and at least one of the
following:
         a.   A solid masonry wall with a minimum height of three feet (3');
         b.   A solid evergreen hedge with a height of at least thirty six
inches (36") at the time of planting, located within a perimeter landscape
buffer with a minimum width of ten feet (10');
         c.   A landscaped berm with a minimum height of three feet (3') and a
maximum three to one (3:1) slope; or
         d.   A solid evergreen or deciduous hedge with a minimum height of
twenty four inches (24") at the time of planting and a wrought iron fence with
a minimum height of three feet (3'), each located within a perimeter landscape
buffer with a minimum width of four feet (4').
   G.   Buffer Yards: Buffer yards are intended to mitigate the impacts
associated with land uses of differing intensity on abutting properties. The
standards require landscape buffer yards between such uses to minimize the
harmful impacts of dust, debris, litter, glare, noise, signs, unsightly
buildings and other objectionable features.
      1.   Standards: The buffer yard standards apply to all development or
redevelopment.
      2.   Requirements: Buffer yards are required in accordance with the
following table. To determine the type of buffer yard required, first identify
the zoning of the site that is being developed (the first column of the table)
and the abutting site's zoning (along the top of the table). Find where the
zoning of the developing site and the abutting site intersect on the table. If
a buffer yard is required, a letter designation will indicate the type of
buffer yard required. See below for descriptions of buffer yards.
                                     Abutting Site's Zoning
Developing Site's Zoning (Developing AG NC/SR UR1-3A UR4 Commercial Industrial
Land Use)
                                     Abutting Site's Zoning
Developing Site's Zoning (Developing AG NC/SR UR1-3A UR4 Commercial Industrial
Land Use)
AG                                   -  -     -      -   -          -
NC/SR (residential use)              -  -     -      -   -          -
NC/SR (nonresidential use)           -  B     B      A   -          -
UR1-3A (residential use)             -  -     -      -   -          -
UR1-3A (nonresidential use)          -  B     B      A   -          -
UR4                                  -  B     B      -   -          -
Commercial                           -  C     C      B   -          -
Industrial                           -  D     D      C   B          -
Any zoning (parking lots and
vehicular use areas with 5 or more   -  C     C      C   -          -
parking spaces)
 
      3.   Buffer Yards For Abutting Property Outside Village: For purposes of
determining buffer yards for property lines abutting properties which lie
outside of the village of Lake Villa, the zoning of such properties shall be
assigned the most equivalent district from the village of Lake Villa ordinance.
In cases where the equivalent zone is unclear, the zoning officer shall
determine this assignment.
      4.   Landscape Screening: Except as provided in Section
10-3E-4K4f, all buffer yards shall include screen and barrier sufficient to
protect residential and all other environments from adverse effects, such as
noise, lighting, odors and dust, of more intensive adjacent uses and contribute
to improved community appearance and property values while preserving and
enhancing the mature "established" character of Village neighborhoods. To
determine the type of screening intensity required, first identify the zoning
of the site that is being developed (the first column of the table) and the
abutting site's zoning (along the top of the table). Find where the zoning, of
the developing site and the abutting site intersect on the table.
                                     Abutting Site's Zoning
Developing Site's Zoning (Developing AG NC/SR UR1-3A UR4 Commercial Industrial
Land Use)
                              Abutting Site's Zoning
Developing Site's Zoning      AG NC/SR   UR1-3A  UR4    Commercial Industrial
(Developing Land Use)
AG                            -  -       -       -      -          -
NC/SR (Residential Use)       -  -       -       -      -          -
NC/SR (Nonresidential Use)    -  -       Medium  Light  -          -
UR1-3A (Residential Use)      -  -       -       -      -          -
UR1-3A (Nonresidential Use)   -  Medium  Medium  Light  -          -
UR4                           -  Medium  Medium  -      -          -
Commercial                    -  Heavy   Heavy   Medium -          -
Industrial                    -  Maximum Maximum Heavy  Medium     -
Any zoning (Parking lots and
vehicular use areas with 5 or -  Heavy   Heavy   Heavy  -          -
more parking spaces)
 
 
Screening Intensity
                    Light Medium Heavy Maximu m
Height in feeta, b  -     2.5    4     6
Year-round opacityc -     50%    75%   75%
All requirements 1 through 4 are mandatory; all figures are minimum.
a = At time of installation
b = Fence height as defined herein
c = By the end of the second growing season after installation, if a screen
composed of landscaping is used.
 
      5.   Buffer Yard Types: The following tables list the requirements for
the various types of buffer yards and their development options. A graphic
depiction of each option is provided to illustrate the approximate projected
density of required plantings five (5) years after installation. Landscape
standards are based on the minimum requirements per one hundred (100) linear
feet. Any fractional plant units must be rounded up to the nearest whole plant
unit. Where the minimum required setback width is less than the minimum
required buffer yard width, the buffer yard may be reduced to that setback
width provided there is no change in the total number of plants provided.
         a.   Type A:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1804.gif]
         b.   Type B:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1806.gif]
         c.   Type C:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1808.gif]
         d.   Type D:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1810.gif]
      6.   Responsibility For Buffer Yard Installation: The developing property
is responsible for providing required buffer yards. In those cases where a
buffer yard that complies with the standards of this section is already in
place, whether on the site of the developing property or on the site of the
adjacent property, the developer is not required to install another buffer
yard. The developer is only responsible for ensuring that the intervening
buffer yard complies with the standards of this section.
      7.   Use Of Buffer Yards:
         a.   A buffer yard may be used for passive recreation and may contain
pedestrian, bicycle, or equestrian trails provided that: 1) no required plant
material is eliminated; 2) the total width of the buffer yard is maintained;
and 3) all other regulations of this title are met.
         b.   In no event shall the following uses be permitted in buffer
yards: ice skating rinks, playfields (active recreation fields such as
baseball, softball, football, and soccer fields), ski hills, stables, swimming
pools, or play courts.
      8.   Buffer Yard Design:
         a.   Buffer yards are intended to create a visual screening effect
between sites. Therefore, buffer yard landscaping must be distributed to
achieve such an effect.
         b.   All buffer yards must be seeded or covered with another approved
vegetative ground cover.
      9.   Substitutions:
         a.   Evergreen canopy trees may be substituted for up to one-half (1/
2) of the required deciduous canopy.
         b.   Evergreen understory trees and shrubs may be substituted for
required deciduous understory trees and shrubs without limitation.
         c.   A four foot (4') high berm may be substituted for a six foot (6')
opaque fence.
   H.   Plant Material Standards: Plant material used to satisfy the standards
of this section shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   Size: Unless otherwise expressly provided, all plant materials used
to satisfy the requirements of this section shall meet the following minimum
size standards at the time of installation:
 
Plant Type                                       Minimum Size
Canopy tree (mature height of 30'+)              2.5" caliper
Understory tree (mature height of less than 30') 1.5" caliper
Evergreen/conifer tree                           5' height
Shrubs:                                           
Broadleaf/deciduous                              2' height
Needleleaf/evergreen                             18" height
 
      2.   Quality: Plants installed to satisfy the requirements of this
section shall meet or exceed the plant quality standards of the most recent
edition of "American Standard For Nursery Stock", published by the American
Association Of Nurserymen. Plants shall be nursery grown and balled and
burlapped.
      3.   Additional Landscape Treatment: All required landscape areas not
dedicated to trees, shrubs or preservation of existing vegetation shall be
landscaped with grass, ground cover, or other landscape treatment, not
including sand, rock or pavement.
      4.   Species Mix: For each plant type (i.e., canopy tree) associated with
the landscape requirements of this section, no single plant species shall
represent more than forty percent (40%) of the total plantings.
      5.   Native Species: Trees and shrubs that are native to Illinois are
preferred to other species.
   I.   Installation, Maintenance And Replacement:
      1.   Installation: All landscaping shall be installed according to sound
nursery practices in a manner designed to encourage vigorous growth. Sites for
plant material shall be prepared or improved in accordance with American
Association Of Nurserymen standards for soil preparation and drainage. Friable
soil shall be provided in all planting areas, and subsurface drainage shall be
provided where berms, elevated areas or other suitable means for providing
proper drainage do not exist.
      2.   Maintenance And Replacement:
         a.   Required trees, shrubs, structures and other landscape features
shall be considered as elements of the project in the same manner as parking,
building materials and other details are elements of the plan. The landowner,
or successors in interest, shall be jointly and severally responsible for the
following:
            (1)   All landscaping shall be maintained in good condition and in
a way that presents a healthy, neat, and orderly appearance. All landscaping
shall be maintained free from disease, pests, weeds and litter. Maintenance
shall include weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning, mowing, edging, mulching
or other maintenance, as needed. All maintenance shall be performed in
accordance with acceptable horticultural practices;
            (2)   The repair or replacement of required landscape structures
(e.g., fences) to a structurally sound condition;
            (3)   The regular maintenance, repair, or replacement, where
necessary, of any landscaping required by this section; and
            (4)   Continuous maintenance of the site as a whole.
         b.   The village board is authorized to require documented assurance
of landscape performance and/or continued maintenance in the form of a
condition, covenant, contract, development agreement or performance/maintenance
guarantee to assure installation and, for a minimum one year period, the
continued maintenance of landscape improvements associated with a development.
The amount of the performance guarantee for the required landscape improvement
shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The maintenance guarantee required to be deposited
with the Village for maintenance of the required landscape improvements shall
be in an amount as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   J.   Alternative Compliance:
      1.   Applicability: Alternative methods of compliance with the standards
of this section may be authorized by the village when one or more of the
following conditions exist:
         a.   Topography, soil, vegetation, space constraints or other site
conditions are such that full compliance is impossible or impractical, or
improved environmental or aesthetic quality would result from the alternative.
         b.   Safety considerations make alternative compliance necessary.
      2.   Approval Criteria: In order to be approved, an alternative
compliance landscape plan must be equal to or exceed traditional compliance in
terms of quality of materials and visual effect, effectiveness in meeting the
purposes described in subsection A of this section, and material durability and
hardiness. Alternative compliance is limited to the specific site under
consideration and does not establish precedent for acceptance of alternative
compliance plans on other sites.
      3.   Procedure: A request for alternative compliance must be submitted to
the zoning officer. The request must be processed in accordance with this
title.
      4.   Justification: A request for alternative compliance must be
accompanied by sufficient explanation and justification, written or graphic, or
both, to allow appropriate evaluation and decision. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-
2004; Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014; Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016; Ord. 2024-02-02,
2-5-2024; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-4-7: REQUIRED SEWER AND WATER SERVICES:
Connection to village sewerage and water supply systems is required for new
residential uses in the R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, and all UR (urban residential)
zones and the NC (neighborhood conservation) zone, provided, however, subject
to the further regulations of this section as set forth below: a) existing lots
in the R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4 and all UR and NC zones may be developed for
single-family dwellings using septic tanks and wells; and b) lands may be
developed for single-family dwellings prior to the availability of the required
connection to village sewer systems, until the required connection to the
village's sewage system is available, at which time the owner(s) of such
property shall be required to make the required connection(s) to the village's
sewer, and notwithstanding anything contained in this title to the contrary,
all new residential development shall be connected to and served by the
village's water system at the owner's expense. The purpose of these
alternatives is to permit the development of lands where village sewers are not
available, and at the same time, to preserve the R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, UR and
NC zones as full urban utility service areas to make provision for future
connection to the village sewer system.
   A.   General Requirements: Any such lots or parcels shall meet the on site
sewage disposal requirements of the Lake County health department, and suitable
connections shall be provided outside each structure so that eventual
conversion and connection to both village systems can be readily accomplished.
(Ord. 2010-11-02, 11-24-2010)
   B.   Development Standards:
      1.   Lot Size: The following minimum requirements for lot area and width
shall supersede the zone requirements for any lot developed under subsection A
of this section which is located in any R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, UR1, UR2, UR3,
UR3A, UR4, and NC zoning district: (Ord. 2010-11-02, 11-24-2010; amd. Ord.
2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
 
Lot Area       Minimum Buildable Area Lot Width
40,000 sq. ft. 25,000 sq. ft.         130 feet 1
 
Note:
   1.    As measured at the building setback line, provided that such width of
lots located at the terminus of a cul-de-sac or on curvilinear streets may be
no less than 65 feet.
   2.   Minimum Area Requirements: In addition to these minimum area
requirements, the use of any lot created under the provisions of this section
shall be subject to the regulations of the Lake County health department
insofar as they pertain to an on site sewage disposal system.
   3.   Yards Established: Front, side and rear yards shall be the same as
established for the zone in which the land is located.
   C.   Improvements: In the development of vacant lands, where the extension
of sewer laterals is clearly imminent within nine (9) months, all improvements
required by this title for the R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4 and the UR zones and the
NC zone and by the Lake Villa subdivision ordinance, for lots of the minimum
size permitted in the zone where such lands are located, shall be installed at
the time that other required subdivision improvements are constructed as
provided by law.
   D.   Connection To Village Sewer And Water Facilities: In all zones,
connection must be made to village sewer and/or water facilities which are
available within one hundred feet (100') of the property line. If village sewer
and/or water facilities are not available within one hundred feet (100') of the
property line at the time of construction on said lot or parcel, connection to
the village sewer and/or water facilities shall be made within one year from
the time such village facilities become so available. (Ord. 2010-11-02, 11-24-
2010)
10-4-8: STORMWATER DETENTION REGULATION:
See section 4-6-1 of this code. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-4-9: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATION:
See section 4-6-1 of this code. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMANCES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Nonconforming Uses And Structures
10-5-2: Nonconforming Recorded Lots
10-5-3: Nonconforming Structures
10-5-4: Nonconforming Uses
10-5-5: Elimination Of Nonconforming Uses
10-5-1: NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
Any lawful use of land or structures or any structure, existing at the date of
passage of this zoning ordinance, or subsequent amendment thereto, and located
in a zone in which it would not be permitted as a new use or structure under
the terms of this zoning ordinance, is declared to be a legal nonconformance.
It is the intent of this zoning ordinance to encourage their conversion to
conformance where possible, and to permit these nonconformances to continue
until terminated either by voluntary act or by amortization. (Ord. 2006-05-01,
5-10-2006)
10-5-2: NONCONFORMING RECORDED LOTS:
   A.   Definitions: A nonconforming recorded lot is a tract of land
designated: 1) on a duly recorded subdivision plat; or 2) by a duly recorded
deed; or 3) by other lawful means; which has less than the minimum lot area,
width, or other dimension prescribed for the particular zone in which it is
located, and which met all the area, width and other criteria for the zone in
which it was located at the time of such recording, but was made nonconforming
by a subsequent amendment to this title. If a tract of land, which is entitled
to a building permit under the terms of this title, either as a conforming lot
or as a nonconforming recorded tract or lot, is reduced in size by the
acquisition of a portion of said tract, by negotiation or by condemnation, for
highway purposes by the Lake County highway department or by the state
department of transportation, division of highways, or by the village of Lake
Villa, or other public agency, the remainder of said tract shall have the
status of a legal nonconforming recorded lot.
   B.   Special Regulations For Nonconforming Recorded Lots: A nonconforming
recorded lot shall be subject to the following provisions: (Ord. 2006-05-01, 5-
10-2006)
      1.   In residential zones (AG, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4, CR, R1, R2,
SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, and NC): (Ord. 2006-05-01, 5-10-2006; amd. Ord. 2014-07-01,
7-9-2014)
         a.   Permitted Uses: A nonconforming recorded lot may be used for a
single-family dwelling and accessory uses.
         b.   Side And Rear Yards: Each side yard shall be a minimum of ten
percent (10%) of the lot width (except that any yard shall be a minimum of 4
feet, but need not be greater than required by section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this
title, and in no case greater than 10 feet). The rear yard provided for the
principal use shall be a minimum of ten feet (10'). For accessory structures,
the rear yard and the side yard shall be a minimum of five feet (5').
         c.   Front Yard Requirements: The minimum front yard requirement of
twenty percent (20%) of the depth of a nonconforming, recorded lot shall be
required.
         d.   Buildable Width On Corner Lots: On a nonconforming recorded
corner lot the buildable width shall be at least equal to twenty two feet (22')
plus one foot (1') for each two feet (2') that the width of the lot exceeds
twenty four feet (24') less than the area required for the interior yard.
         e.   Accessory Buildings: A new or relocated accessory building need
not be set back from the main front wall of the nearest existing accessory
building or principal structure more than one foot (1') for each four feet (4')
of distance between such adjoining buildings.
         f.   Adjoining Front Or Rear: From a street, park, beach, lake, or
waterway adjoining the front or rear, the setback shall be at least the average
of the setbacks of existing similar improvements on the lots within one hundred
fifty feet (150') in both directions of such park, beach, lake, waterway or
street.
      2.   In any other zone:
         a.   Permitted Uses: A nonconforming, recorded lot may be used for any
principal use and accessory uses permitted in the zone in which it is located.
         b.   Side Yards: Each side yard required for a nonconforming recorded
lot shall be determined by multiplying the actual width of the lot by the yard
required in the zone in which the lot is located, divided by the minimum lot
width required in the zone in which the lot is located. However, no
nonconforming side yard shall be less than five feet (5').
         c.   Front Yard, Rear Yard, Height Restrictions, Coverage, And Floor
Area Ratio: A nonconforming, recorded lot shall comply with the same front
yard, rear yard, height restriction, coverage, and floor area ratio as
specified for the zone in which it is located.
   C.   Adjacent Lots: No deed creating or conveying a nonconforming recorded
lot shall create any actual side yard or actual rear yard on any adjacent and
improved lot which does not comply with the other side yard and/or rear yard
requirements of this zoning ordinance.
   D.   Construction, Repair And Alteration: Construction of new buildings, or
repair of existing buildings that are being used for permitted uses but are
located on nonconforming recorded lots, shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   Any building, located on a nonconforming, recorded lot, may be
repaired and maintained, but may not be expanded beyond the limitations of
subsection B of this section.
      2.   Any building, located on a nonconforming, recorded lot, which is
damaged or destroyed by a catastrophic event can be rebuilt for its last
permitted use to the extent of its original development. A new building can be
constructed on a nonconforming recorded lot for any permitted use to the extent
permitted in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2006-05-01, 5-10-2006)
10-5-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Definition: A nonconforming structure is a structure legally
established prior to the effective date of the zoning ordinance or subsequent
amendment thereto, which would not be permitted as a new structure in the zone
in which it is located, under the terms of the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Regulations: All nonconforming structures shall be subject to the
following regulations:
      1.   Reconstruction Of A Destroyed Nonconforming Structure: A
nonconforming structure shall be considered destroyed if the structure is
damaged to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost
of that portion of the principal and accessory buildings, which are above
grade.
The means of destruction of a nonconforming structure shall determine whether
or not it may be rebuilt to its nonconforming configuration.
         a.   Destruction By Catastrophic Event: A nonconforming structure,
which is destroyed by means of a catastrophic event such as fire, flood, wind,
hail, explosion or accident (in the absence of a primary cause of destruction,
listed under subsection B1b of this section) may be rebuilt to its
configuration as of the effective date hereof. In no instance shall a
nonconformity be enlarged, extended, or in any other way, increase the
nonconformance.
         b.   Destruction By Means Other Than Catastrophic Event: A
nonconforming structure, which is destroyed by means other than a catastrophic
event (as listed in subsection B1a of this section) such as intentional
destruction by the property owner through demolition, arson or other means, may
not be rebuilt to its most recent configuration. Any structure built on the
subject property must conform to all regulations of this title governing new
development.
      2.   Repair Of A Damaged Nonconforming Structure: A nonconforming
structure shall be considered damaged if the extent of the damage is less than
that qualifying a structure as destroyed under subsection B1 of this section.
Damage may be repaired to the extent of the configuration of the structure as
of the effective date hereof. In no instance shall a nonconformity be enlarged,
extended, or in any other way, increase the nonconformance. (Ord. 2006-05-01,
5-10-2006)
      3.   Normal Maintenance And Repairs Of A Nonconforming Structure: Normal
maintenance and repairs shall be permitted. In no instance shall a
nonconformity be enlarged, extended, or in any way, increase the
nonconformance.
      4.   Enlargements, Extensions Or Alterations Of A Nonconforming
Structure: Enlargements, extensions, or alterations of a nonconforming
structure shall be permitted, provided that the enlargement, extension, or
alteration does not increase the nonconformance.
      5.   Garages And Additions To Dwellings: Nothing herein shall be
construed as prohibiting additions to any dwelling regardless of the zone in
which such dwellings are located, nor shall anything herein be construed as
prohibiting the construction of a garage as an accessory use to any dwelling
unit regardless of the zone in which the dwelling is located. (Ord. 2004-01-01,
1-14-2004)
10-5-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Definition: A nonconforming use is an activity using land or structures
or both, legally established prior to the effective date hereof or subsequent
applicable amendment thereto, which would not be permitted under the current
terms of this title.
   B.   Modification Of A Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use shall not be
expanded, or changed to any more intensive use (other than a more intensive use
which is permitted in the zone in which it is located).
   C.   Discontinuation Of A Nonconforming Use: The regulation of discontinued
nonconforming use is discontinued per subsections C1 and C2 of this section.
      1.   Temporary Discontinuation: A nonconforming use shall be considered
temporarily discontinued if it ceases regular operation for a continuous period
of less than three hundred sixty five (365) days. A short term or periodic
resumption of a discontinuation of activity associated with a nonconforming use
shall not be considered "regular operation" unless said nonconforming use is
customarily periodic in nature (such as an annual carnival or fair, seasonal
produce stand, or other periodic use).
      2.   Abandonment Of A Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use shall be
considered abandoned if it ceases regular operation for a continuous period of
three hundred sixty five (365) days or more. Periodic or short term resumption
of activity associated with a nonconforming use shall not be considered
"regular operation" unless said nonconforming use shall not be reestablished,
and any subsequent use of the land or structure shall conform to the
regulations of the zone in which the property is located. Uses of land not
involving buildings, structures, excavation activity, filling activity or
storage activity, such as agriculture, gardening, and passive commercial
recreation or passive noncommercial recreation uses shall be exempt from this
prohibition on reestablishment after discontinuation. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-
2004)
10-5-5: ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   In all residential zones, any use of a structure, all, or substantially
all, of which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in a residential
zone, but is being used for a use permitted only in a commercial or industrial
zone, shall be terminated within five (5) years of the effective date of these
zoning regulations.
   B.   In all commercial zones, any use of a structure, all, or substantially
all, of which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in a commercial
zone, but is being used for a use permitted only in an industrial zone, shall
be terminated within ten (10) years of the effective date of these zoning
regulations.
   C.   In all industrial districts any use of a structure, all, or
substantially all, of which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in
an industrial district, but is being used for a use permitted only in a
commercial district, shall be terminated within fifteen (15) years of the
effective date of these zoning regulations. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING REQUIREMENTS
Parking And Design   6A
Lighting Standards   6B
Communication Towers   6C
Sign Regulations   6D
ARTICLE A. PARKING AND DESIGN
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Parking And Loading Requirements
10-6A-2: Required Number Of Parking Spaces To Be Provided
10-6A-3: Calculation Of Number Of Spaces
10-6A-4: Size Of Spaces
10-6A-5: Multiple Uses
10-6A-6: Development
10-6A-7: Loading-Unloading Spaces
10-6A-8: Access
10-6A-1: PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
The following regulations, applicable to all zones, are established to increase
safety and lessen congestion in the public streets, to adequately provide for
parking needs associated with the development of land and increased automobile
usage, to set standards for the requirement of parking according to the amount
of traffic generated by each use, and to eliminate the on street storage of
vehicles along major traffic routes.
   A.   Location Of Required Parking Spaces:
      1.   Public Right Of Way: No parking spaces required by the provisions of
this title may be located within a public right of way.
      2.   Other Uses: Required parking spaces for all other uses must be
located within the development for which they are intended. Said spaces may be
located in: private, reserved or common garages; private driveways; reserved or
common parking lots and/or in designated reserved or common spaces along
private roads within the development.
      3.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Required parking spaces for
conventional single-family detached dwellings must be located on the same lot
as the unit for which they are intended. Said spaces may be located in private
garages and/or private hard surface driveways.
      4.   Outdoor Parking In Residential Districts Restricted:
         a.   The outdoor parking of vehicles on any property located within
any residential zoning district within the village shall only be within the
confines of a "hard surface driveway" as defined below, but no such parking
shall occur within that portion of such driveway that is within a public right
of way. Parking on grass or other unimproved areas shall be prohibited.
         b.   No installation of a hard surface driveway, or any portion
thereof, shall hereafter occur unless a permit for same has been issued by the
zoning officer.
         c.   For the purpose of this subsection A, "hard surface driveway"
shall mean a driveway or other area intended for or used for vehicular parking
which has been improved with a surface of concrete, asphalt, brick paver,
gravel, or other aggregate. (Ord. 2010-10-02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-2: REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES TO BE PROVIDED:
   A.   The following minimum number of parking spaces shall be required of the
uses specified below.
   B.   Reference herein to "employee(s) on the largest work shift" means the
maximum number of employees working at the facility during a single given day,
regardless of whether any such person is a full time employee. The largest work
shift may occur on any particular day of the week or a lunch or dinner period
in the case of a restaurant.
   C.   The term "capacity" as used herein means the maximum number of persons
which may be accommodated by the use as determined by its design or by fire
code regulations, whichever is greater.
Agricultural uses                       1 space per employee.
                                        1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area of customer sales and
Commercial and entertainment uses       service, storage and/or office gross
except as specifically designated       floor area, or, if the use has at least
below:                                  100,000 square feet of gross floor
                                        area, 1 space per 250 square feet of
                                        gross floor area.
Other commercial and entertainment       
uses:
                                        1 space per 250 square feet of gross
Bank                                    floor area, plus 5 spaces of off street
                                        waiting (loading) spaces per drive-in
                                        lane.
                                        3 spaces per operator or 1 space per
Beauty and barber shop                  100 square feet of gross floor area,
                                        whichever is larger, plus 1 space per
                                        employee on the largest shift.
Funeral home                            1 space per 4 patron seats or 25 spaces
                                        per chapel unit, whichever is greater.
Grocery or supermarket                  1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area.
Hospital                                2 spaces per bed.
                                        1 space per room or suite, plus 1 space
                                        per every 3 employees on the largest
                                        work shift, plus 1 space per 3 persons
Hotel or motel                          to the maximum capacity of each public
                                        meeting and/or banquet room, plus 50
                                        percent of the spaces otherwise
                                        required for accessory uses (e.g.,
                                        restaurants and bars).
Private club                            1 space per 3 persons to the maximum
                                        capacity of the facility.
                                        1 space per 300 square feet of gross
Repair service                          floor area, plus 1 space per employee
                                        on the largest work shift.
                                        1 space per 3 patron seats or 1 space
                                        per 100 square feet of gross floor
Restaurant                              area, whichever is greater; plus 1
                                        space per employee on the largest work
                                        shift.
                                        1 space per 3 students, plus 1 space
School, commercial or trade             per employee (including faculty) at
                                        capacity class attendance period.
Shopping center, regional (100,000      4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
square feet or more of floor area)      floor area.
                                        Parking shall be provided equal to what
                                        is required for what can best be
                                        determined to be the individual
Shopping center (less than 100,000      components of the center. In no
square feet of floor area)              instance shall the aggregate total for
                                        the center average less than 1 space
                                        per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                        area.
                                        1 space per 3 patrons based on maximum
                                        capacity. This requirement may be
                                        satisfied on a space by space basis by
Theater or auditorium                   the facility, providing written proof
                                        is supplied that it has the use of a
                                        nearby parking lot available to its
                                        patrons (e.g., by contractual
                                        agreement).
                                        1 space per 3 patrons to the maximum
Commercial recreation use:              capacity of facility plus 1 space per 2
                                        employees on the largest work shift.
Other commercial/recreational uses:      
Bowling alley                           5 spaces per lane.
                                        1 space per 2 slips, plus 1 large 10
Marina, private                         foot by 40 foot space for each trailer
                                        launch space.
Skating rink, ice or roller             1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area.
                                        1 space per 75 square feet of gross
Swimming facility                       water area, plus 1 space per employee
                                        on the largest shift.
Tennis, racquetball, handball courts    4 spaces per court, plus 1 space per
                                        employee on the largest shift.
Industrial uses:                         
                                        1 space per employee on the largest
Manufacturing                           work shift, plus 1 space for company
                                        vehicle regularly stored on the
                                        premises.
                                        1 space per employee on the largest
                                        work shift, plus 1 space per truck
Truck terminal                          normally parked on the premises, plus 1
                                        space per 3 patrons to the maximum
                                        capacity.
                                        1 space per employee on the largest
Warehousing                             work shift, plus 1 space for every
                                        6,000 square feet of gross floor area.
Institutional, indoor recreational, and 1 space per 3 patrons to the maximum
special residential uses:               capacity, plus 1 space per employee on
                                        the largest shift.
Other institutional, indoor
recreational, and special residential    
uses:
                                        1 space per employee on the largest
Camps, day or youth                     shift, plus 1 space per camp vehicle
                                        normally parked on the premises.
Cemetery                                1 space per employee, plus 1 space per
                                        4 visitors to the maximum capacity.
Church                                  1 space per 3 seats at the maximum
                                        capacity.
Community and recreation center         1 space per 250 square feet of gross
                                        floor area.
                                        1 space per teacher/employee on the
Day or nursery school                   largest shift, plus 1 off street
                                        loading space per 6 students.
Group dwelling                          1 space per bedroom or sleeping room.
Library or museum                       1 space per 250 square feet of floor
                                        area.
                                        1 space per 6 residents, plus 1 space
Monastery, convent                      per employee on the largest shift, plus
                                        1 space per 5 chapel seats if the
                                        public may attend.
                                        1 space per 6 patient beds, plus 1
Nursing home                            space per employee on the largest
                                        shift, plus 1 space per staff member
                                        and visiting doctor.
                                        1 space per employee on the largest
Nursery uses                            shift, plus 1 space per 200 square feet
                                        of gross floor area of inside sales or
                                        display.
Office uses:                             
Office, general                         1 space per 300 square feet of gross
                                        floor area.
Medical offices                         5 spaces per doctor.
                                        1 space per 200 square feet of basement
                                        and first floor gross floor area, plus
Personal service                        1 space per 300 square feet of any
                                        additional floor area for customer
                                        service, plus 1 space per employee on
                                        the largest shift.
Office industry                         2.5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                        gross floor area.
Outdoor recreational uses:              1 space per 4 expected patrons at
                                        maximum capacity.
Other outdoor recreational uses:         
                                        36 spaces per 9 holes, plus 1 space per
                                        employee on the largest shift, plus 50
Golf course (9 and 18 hole)             percent of spaces otherwise required
                                        for any accessory uses (e.g., bars,
                                        restaurants).
Outdoor swimming pool                   1 space per 75 square feet of gross
                                        water area.
Tennis court                            2 spaces per court.
                                        1 space per employee on the largest
Public service uses                     work shift, plus 1 space per company
                                        vehicle normally stored on the
                                        premises.
                                        1.5 spaces shall be provided for each 1
                                        bedroom and efficiency unit; 2 spaces
                                        shall be provided for units containing
                                        2 bedrooms; 2.5 spaces shall be
Residential uses:                       provided for units containing 3
                                        bedrooms; and 3 spaces shall be
                                        provided for units containing 4 or more
                                        bedrooms. Said spaces shall be located
                                        within 100 feet of the dwelling unit
                                        they are intended to serve.
Community houses, recreation centers
and other group activity buildings      1 space per 200 square feet of gross
located within residential developments floor area.
or mixed use developments containing
residential uses
Road service uses:                       
Convenience store                       1 space per 100 square feet of gross
                                        floor area.
Vehicle sales and service               1 space per 1,500 square feet of gross
                                        floor area.
                                        1 space per 400 square feet of gross
Vehicle repair and maintenance service  floor area, plus 1 space per employee
                                        on the largest work shift.
School:                                  
Elementary and junior high              1 space per teacher or staff member,
                                        plus 1 space per 2 classrooms.
                                        1 space per teacher or staff member on
Senior high                             the largest shift, plus 1 space per 5
                                        nonbused students.
                                        1 space per staff member on the largest
College                                 shift, plus 1 space per 2 students of
                                        the largest class attendance period.
 
(Ord. 2010-10-02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-3: CALCULATION OF NUMBER OF SPACES:
In any determination of total parking requirements, any fraction less than one-
half (1/2) may be dropped and any fraction of one- half (1/2) or more shall be
counted as one parking space. (Ord. 2010-10-02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-4: SIZE OF SPACES:
Each parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') wide and eighteen feet
(18') long, and shall be a definitely designated stall adequate for one motor
vehicle.
   A.   The length of the parking space may be reduced to sixteen and one-half
feet (16.5') if a wheel stop is used. This dimension shall include the area
necessary for the wheel stop. If this dimension is used, an additional one and
one-half feet (1.5') of area shall be provided for the overhang of the vehicle.
   B.   Adequate access to each stall and to the street shall be provided. All
parking spaces shall have a minimum vertical clearance of at least seven feet
(7'). (Ord. 2010-10-02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-5: MULTIPLE USES:
If groups of buildings contain uses which vary in their parking requirements,
the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of the individual requirement for
each use.
However, where peak parking requirements occur at distinctly different times of
the day or at different times of the week as determined by the zoning officer,
joint parking facilities may be shared by two (2) or more uses. (Ord. 2010-10-
02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-6: DEVELOPMENT:
All parking facilities and accessways to the parking areas shall be maintained
in a dust free condition. Parking areas located between a public street and the
principal building on the lot shall be paved. Any lighting shall be arranged
and maintained so that it does not shine directly upon any adjacent residence
or street and does not produce excessive glare. Uncovered parking spaces must
be at least three feet (3') from any street right of way line. (Ord. 2010-10-
02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-7: LOADING-UNLOADING SPACES:
All uses involving receipt or distribution of goods by vehicle shall have space
on the premises for pick up, delivery, and service vehicles necessary for
normal daily operation. Such space shall be at least twelve feet by thirty feet
(12' x 30'). This space shall be in addition to the above required parking
spaces and shall be subject to section 10-6A-5 of this article. (Ord. 2010-10-
02, 10-13-2010)
10-6A-8: ACCESS:
Each zoning lot shall have not more than two (2) accessways to any one street
unless unusual circumstances demonstrate the need for additional access points.
Each accessway shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   The width on any accessway leading to a public street shall not exceed
twenty five feet (25') at its intersection with the property line. Curb returns
shall have a minimum radius of thirty feet (30').
   B.   At its intersection with the property line, no part of any accessway
shall be nearer than one hundred feet (100') to the intersection of any two (2)
street lines unless such location is the only available means of access. (Ord.
2010-10-02, 10-13-2010)
ARTICLE B. LIGHTING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Purpose
10-6B-2: Definitions
10-6B-3: Light Post Height And Cutoff
10-6B-4: Standards
10-6B-5: Additional Regulations
10-6B-6: Measurement
10-6B-7: Exterior Lighting Plan
10-6B-1: PURPOSE:
This article details exterior lighting standards. The purpose of this article
is to regulate the spillover of light and glare on operators of motor vehicles,
pedestrians, and land uses in the proximity of the light source. With respect
to motor vehicles in particular, safety considerations form the basis of the
regulations contained herein. In other cases, both the nuisance and hazard
aspects of glare are regulated. This article is not intended to apply to public
street lighting. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6B-2: DEFINITIONS:
CANDLEPOWER: The amount of light that will illuminate a surface one foot (1')
distant from a light source to an intensity of one foot-candle. Maximum (peak)
candlepower is the largest amount of candlepower emitted by any lamp, light
source, or luminaire.
CUTOFF: The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light source, or
luminaire are completely eliminated (cut off) at a specific angle above the
ground.
CUTOFF ANGLE: The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction of light rays
at the light source and a line perpendicular to the ground from the light
source, above which no light is emitted.
CUTOFF TYPE LUMINAIRE: A luminaire with elements such as shields, reflectors,
or refractor panels which direct and cut off the light at a cutoff angle that
is less than ninety degrees (90°).
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all points of which
are one foot (1') from a uniform point source of one candle.
GLARE: The brightness of a light source, which causes eye discomfort.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source and all
necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts.
MAXIMUM PERMITTED ILLUMINATION: The maximum illumination measured in foot-
candles at the interior buffer yard line at ground level in accordance with the
standards of section 10-6B-4 of this article. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6B-3: LIGHT POST HEIGHT AND CUTOFF:
The following standards are required of all exterior lighting except the
outdoor recreational uses specifically exempted below. Many uses have the
option of providing a lower light post with a noncutoff type luminaire, or a
higher pole, up to sixty feet (60'), with a luminaire that totally cuts off
light spillover at a cutoff angle smaller than ninety degrees (90°).
   A.   The maximum height light post permitted is dependent on amount of
cutoff provided. This is designed as a protection against excessive glare and
light spilling over to neighborhood properties. The exceptions, which are
permitted, provide adequate protection for neighboring residential property.
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6B-4: STANDARDS:
Exterior lighting shall meet one of the following standards:
   A.   No Cutoff: When light source or luminaire has no cutoff: (Ord. 2004-01-
01, 1-14-2004)
 
Zone                          Maximum Permitted Maximum Permitted Height Of
                              Illumination      Luminaire
R1, R2, SR, SR1, SR2, SR3,    0.20              10 feet
SR4, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4
AG, NC, CR, CBD, CB, SB       0.20              15 feet
RD, LI, LI-2                  0.30              20 feet
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
   B.   Illustration Of No Cutoff: An illustration of this type of luminaire is
provided below:
   NO CUTOFF LUMINAIRE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1796.gif]
   C.   Angle Of Ninety Degrees Or More: When a luminaire has total cutoff of
light at an angle equal to or greater than ninety degrees (90°), the maximum
permitted illumination and the maximum permitted height of the luminaire shall
be: (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
 
Zone                          Maximum Permitted Maximum Permitted Height Of
                              Illumination      Post
R1, R2, SR, SR1, SR2, SR3,    0.30              15 feet
SR4, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4
AG, NC, CR, CBD, CB, SB       0.75              25 feet
RD, LI, LI-2                  1.5               35 feet
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
   D.   Illustration Of Ninety Degree Cutoff: An illustration of this type of
luminaire is provided below:
   90° CUTOFF LUMINAIRE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1798.gif]
Commentary: This standard is designed to ensure that no light is emitted above
a horizontal line parallel to the ground. In order to achieve total cutoff at
ninety degrees (90°), such as a luminaire shall emit maximum (peak) candlepower
at an angle not exceeding seventy five percent (75%) degrees. This angle is
formed by the line at which maximum candlepower is emitted from the light
source and a line perpendicular to the ground from the light source.
   E.   Angle Of Less Than Ninety Degrees: When a luminaire has total cutoff of
light at an angle less than ninety degrees (90°) and is located so that the
bare light bulb, lamp, or light source is completely shielded from the direct
view of an observer five feet (5') above the ground at the point where the
cutoff angle intersects the ground, then the maximum permitted illumination and
the maximum permitted height of the luminaire shall be: (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-
2004)
 
Zone                          Maximum Permitted Maximum Permitted Height Of
                              Illumination      Post
R1, R2, SR, SR1, SR2, SR3,    0.5               20 feet
SR4, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, UR4
AG, NC, CR, CBD, CB, SB       2.0               30 feet
RD, LI, LI-2                  4.0               50 feet
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
   F.   Illustration Of Less Than Ninety Degree Cutoff: An illustration of this
type of luminaire is provided below:
   LUMINAIRE WITH LESS THAN 90° CUTOFF
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/251dabfdc3fe5e8b0b98c430ea3566a8e53c4ba7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1800.gif]
   G.   Exemption For Specified Outdoor Recreational Uses:
      1.   Because of their unique requirements for nighttime visibility and
their limited hours of operation, ball diamond, playing fields, and tennis
courts are exempted from the exterior lighting standards of this section upon
satisfying the planning board during a site plan review that the site plan
indicates that these outdoor recreational uses meet all other requirements of
this article as well as the following conditions.
      2.   The outdoor recreational uses specified above shall not exceed a
maximum permitted post height of forty feet (40').
      3.   The outdoor recreational uses specified above may exceed a total
cutoff angle of ninety degrees (90°), provided that the luminaire is shielded
in either its orientation or by a landscaped buffer yard to prevent light and
glare spillover to adjacent residential property. The maximum permitted
illumination at the interior buffer yard line shall not exceed two (2) foot-
candles. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6B-5: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary:
   A.   No flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted.
   B.   Light sources or luminaries shall not be located within buffer yard
areas except on pedestrian walkways. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6B-6: MEASUREMENT:
   A.   Metering Equipment: Lighting levels shall be measured in foot- candles
with a direct reading, portable light meter. The meter shall have a color and
cosine corrected sensor with multiple scales and shall read within an accuracy
of plus or minus five percent (±5%). It shall have been tested, calibrated, and
certified by an independent commercial photometric laboratory or the
manufacturer within one year of the date of its use.
   B.   Method Of Measurement:
      1.   The meter sensor shall be mounted not more than six inches (6")
above ground level in a horizontal position.
      2.   Readings shall be taken by qualified personnel only after the cell
has been exposed long enough to provide a constant reading. Measurements shall
be made after dark with the light sources in question on, then with the same
sources off. The difference between the two (2) readings shall be compared to
the maximum permitted illumination on the property line at ground level. This
procedure eliminates the effects of moonlight and other ambient light. (Ord.
2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6B-7: EXTERIOR LIGHTING PLAN:
   A.   At the time any exterior lighting is installed or substantially
modified, and whenever a zoning certificate is sought, an exterior lighting
plan shall be submitted to the village in order to determine whether the
requirements of this article have been met. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
ARTICLE C. COMMUNICATION TOWERS
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Definitions
10-6C-2: Applicability
10-6C-3: General Guidelines And Requirements
10-6C-4: Permitted Uses
10-6C-5: Administration
10-6C-6: Conditional Use Permits
10-6C-7: Deviations
10-6C-8: Removal
10-6C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE: Natural or manmade trees, clock towers, bell
steeples, light poles and similar alternative design mounting structures that
camouflage or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
ANTENNA: Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio, or television
communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
APPLICANT: The person who applies for a permit for an installation.
CTC: The communication tower committee ("CTC") which shall consist of the mayor
and chairman of the building and zoning committee of the village board, or such
other persons as are so designated from time to time by the village board.
FAA: The federal aviation administration.
FCC: The federal communications commission.
HEIGHT: When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from ground level to the highest point on the tower or other structure, even if
said highest point is an antenna.
INSTALLATION: The combination of antennas, tower, support building, and related
structures and improvements which collectively permit the reception and
retransmission of telephonic, radio, or television communications through the
sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves.
PERMITTEE: The person who receives a permit for an installation.
TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the purpose
of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice towers,
guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television
transmission towers, microwave towers, common carrier towers, cellular
telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6C-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   District Height Limitations: The requirements set forth in this article
shall govern the location of towers that exceed, and antennas that are
installed at a height in excess of the height limitations specified for each
zoning district.
   B.   Public Property: Antennas or towers located on property owned, leased,
or otherwise controlled by the village shall be exempt from the requirements of
this article, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or tower has
been approved by the village.
   C.   Amateur Radio: This article shall not govern any tower, or the
installation of any antenna, that is under seventy feet (70') in height and is
owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator for
that purpose. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6C-3: GENERAL GUIDELINES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose; Goals: The purpose of this article is to establish general
guidelines for the siting of towers and antennas. The goals of this article are
to: 1) encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas and minimize
the total number of towers throughout the community, 2) encourage strongly the
joint use of new and existing tower sites, 3) encourage users of towers and
antennas to locate them, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse
impact on the community is minimal, 4) encourage users of towers and antennas
to configure them in a way that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the
towers and antennas, and 5) enhance the ability of the providers of
telecommunications services to provide such services to the community quickly,
effectively, and efficiently.
   B.   Principal Or Accessory Use: Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use or an existing
structure on the same lot or parcel shall not preclude the installation of an
antenna or tower on such lot or parcel. For purposes of determining whether the
installation of a tower or antenna complies with district development
regulations, including, but not limited to, setback requirements, lot coverage
requirements, and other such requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot or
parcel shall control, even though the antennas or towers may be located on
leased parcels within such lots or parcels. Towers that are constructed, and
antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this article
shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming use or
structure.
   C.   Inventory Of Existing Sites: Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower
shall provide to the village an inventory of its existing towers that are
either within the jurisdiction of the village or within one mile of the border
thereof, including specific information about the location, height, and design
of each tower. The village may share such information with other applicants
applying for permits under this article or other organizations seeking to
locate antennas within the village, provided, however that the village is not,
by sharing such information, in any way representing or warranting that such
sites are available or suitable.
   D.   Aesthetics: The guidelines set forth in this subsection D shall govern
the location of all towers, and the installation of all antennas, governed by
this article; provided, however, that the village may waive these requirements
if it determines that the goals of this article are better served thereby.
      1.   Finish Of Towers: Towers shall have a galvanized steel finish or
such other finish which is of comparable or better quality and is approved by
the village engineer, or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, be
painted a neutral color, so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      2.   Design: At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related
structures shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures,
screening, and landscaping that will blend the tower facilities to the natural
setting and existing structures.
      3.   Antenna Installation On Other Structures: If an antenna is installed
on a structure other than a tower, the antenna and supporting electrical and
mechanical equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or
closely compatible with, the color of the supporting structure so as to make
the antenna and related equipment as visually unobtrusive as possible.
      4.   Lighting: Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required
by the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the village
shall review the available lighting alternatives and approve the design that
would cause the least visual disturbance. No illumination system may be
utilized to illuminate the support building or the balance of the installation,
except as explicitly required by federal law.
      5.   Federal Requirements: All installations must comply with the
national environmental policy act of 1969, all other applicable federal and
state laws and regulations, as well as the standards contained in the Lake
Villa building code and must specifically meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other applicable federal or state
regulations. If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of
the towers and antennas governed by this article shall bring such towers and
antennas into compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six
(6) months of the effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a
more stringent compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense.
      6.   Building Codes/Safety Standards: To ensure the structural integrity
of towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in
compliance with the village building codes and the applicable standards for
towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended
from time to time. If, upon inspection, the village concludes that a tower
fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger to
persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the tower,
the owner shall have thirty (30) days to bring such tower into compliance with
such standards. If the owner fails to bring such tower into compliance within
said thirty (30) days, the village may remove such tower at the owner's
expense.
   E.   General Criteria For All Installations:
      1.   Cash bond to be deposited in an amount as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for the estimated cost of maintenance for a ten
(10) year period and the cost of removal and disposal of entire installation,
as determined by village engineer or such other expert designated by village
from time to time.
      2.   As to each installation, the entire site, including the tower and
outbuilding, must be kept maintained and in good condition, as reasonably
determined by the village engineer. If the owner of the installation fails to
maintain the site, the village, upon thirty (30) days' prior written notice, or
in the event of an emergency such prior notice, if, any, which is practicable,
may perform the necessary repairs, maintenance, or removal of the installation,
as it deems appropriate, and all costs so incurred shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the installation.
      3.   No installation may be situated within five hundred feet (500') of
residence situated in an R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, SE, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3,
UR3A, and UR4 district.
      4.   Sufficient vegetative screening shall be installed so that within
ten (10) years of planting, the base portion of the site, to a height of twenty
five feet (25'), shall not be visible from any adjacent parcel, or a public
right of way, when viewed from six feet (6') above existing grade on the
adjacent parcel or right of way.
      5.   No permit shall be issued if another technology is reasonably
available that eliminates the need for a communication tower.
      6.   The base support building shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height nor shall the footprint of the building be larger than twelve feet by
fifteen feet (12' x 15'). Each such building must have a conventional peaked
roof, as opposed to a flat roof, to facilitate its melding into the community.
      7.   For all new installations, the tower shall be constructed in such a
fashion to accommodate three (3) antenna/transmitter devices. Competitors shall
be required to collocate their respective facilities on the same installation
to the extent reasonably possible, with each party responsible for its
proportionate share of the cost of the facilities. In the event that said
parties cannot agree on the appropriate allocation of costs, then each party
shall appoint an arbitrator, who collectively shall select a third arbitrator,
who shall thereafter, as a panel of three (3), arbitrate the dispute and issue
a binding decision on the respective parties.
      8.   No tower shall be located in such a fashion that if it were to
collapse it could fall on any structure, which is occupied by humans, excluding
the support building, or it could fall off site from the parcel upon which it
is located.
      9.   The installation must be operated in such a fashion so that it does
not disrupt television or radio signals to residents or occupants within the
village, impact on hearing aid operation or other medical devices such as
pacemakers, or otherwise disrupt or have a harmful effect on any existing
operations, installations, or technologies existent within the village.
      10.   No installation may be installed in any wetland or floodplain, nor
in any other location where it is likely to harm or cause damage to human or
animal life or to property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tower portion of
the installation may be located in wetland or floodplain areas and the tower
would be structurally sound.
      11.   The permittee must indemnify and hold harmless the village from any
and all liability on village approved form.
      12.   Permittee shall post and maintain in full force and effect general
liability policy with village as named insured in an amount no less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) per occurrence and five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) in the aggregate.
      13.   The maximum height of the tower shall not exceed one hundred twenty
five feet (125') above existing grade at the situs of the tower.
      14.   Permittee must obtain and maintain all required federal licenses
and permits, and effectuate and maintain all required registrations.
      15.   A landscape plan must be reviewed and approved by the CTC, or the
plan commission, if a conditional use permit is required.
      16.   Permittee must demonstrate that other facilities are not reasonably
available for intended installation, such as, but not limited to, towers of
competitors and other available towers or sites such as Com Ed transmission
towers.
      17.   The permittee must demonstrate sufficient financial resources to
install, maintain, and operate the installation and associated tower grid.
Towers built on a speculation basis by applicants who do not have the ability
to provide service are prohibited. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-
07-01, 7-9-2014; Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-6C-4: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   General: The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted
uses and shall not require a conditional use permit. Nevertheless, all such
uses shall comply with subsections 10-6C-3D and E of this article and all other
applicable ordinances.
   B.   Specific Permitted Uses: The following uses are specifically permitted:
      1.   Installing an antenna on an existing structure other than a tower
(such as a building, light pole, water tower, or other freestanding
nonresidential structure) that is fifty feet (50') in height or greater, so
long as said additional antenna adds no more than twenty feet (20') to the
height of said existing structure; and
      2.   Installing an antenna on any tower existing as of March 11, 1998, of
any height, so long as the addition of said antenna adds no more than twenty
feet (20') to the height of said existing tower; provided, however, that such
specific permitted use shall not include the placement of additional buildings
or other supporting equipment used in connection with said antenna. (Ord. 2004-
01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6C-5: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   CTC: This article shall be administered by the communication tower
committee ("CTC") which shall consist of the mayor and chairman of the building
and zoning committee of the village board, or such other persons as are so
designated from time to time by the village board. All decisions of the CTC to
approve or deny a permit shall be in writing.
   B.   Appeal: The decision of the CTC shall be subject to appeal to the
village board by the permittee or any other interested party. Any such appeal
must be in writing, be captioned "notice of appeal", and be filed with the
village clerk no later than ten (10) days subsequent to the date of the CTC's
written decision. The failure to file a timely notice of appeal shall forever
bar any appeal to the village board.
   C.   Retention Of Experts By Village: The village may retain a consulting
engineer and/or other experts to review and evaluate applications for permits,
necessary maintenance, and for general enforcement of this article.
   D.   Specific Administrative Approved Uses: The following uses may be
approved by the CTC after conducting an administrative review:
      1.   Installing an antenna on an existing structure other than a tower
(such as a building, light pole, water tower, or other freestanding
nonresidential structure) that is less than fifty feet (50') in height, so long
as such addition does not add more than twenty feet (20') to the height of the
existing structure;
      2.   Installing an antenna on an existing tower of any height, and
further including the placement of additional buildings or other supporting
equipment used in connection with said antenna, so long as the addition of said
antenna adds no more than twenty feet (20') to the height of the existing
tower; (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
      3.   Locating any alternative tower structure in a zoning district other
than R1, R2, SR1, SR2, SR3, SR4, SE, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A and UR4 district
that in the judgment of the CTC is in conformity with the goals set forth in
subsection 10-6C-3A of this article; (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord.
2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
      4.   No conditional use permit required if installation is to be located
in the CB, SB, LI, or LI-2 district, and satisfies the criteria in subsection
D3 of this section and the following criteria:
         a.   Located at least two hundred feet (200') from perimeter of parcel
upon which it is to be situated.
         b.   All year screening presently exists which will screen
installation from view from adjacent property when viewed from grade level on
adjacent site immediately adjacent to parcel upon which will be situated the
installation.
         c.   There shall be no more than one installation per square mile.
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6C-6: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   General: The plan commission shall hold a public hearing and make its
recommendation to the village board thereafter. The conditional use permit
process shall conform to the requirements of this article except as otherwise
explicitly set forth in this article. The following provisions shall govern the
issuance of conditional use permits:
      1.   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under section 10-6C-
4 of this article or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant to
section 10-6C-5 of this article, then a conditional use permit shall be
required for the construction of a tower or the placement of an antenna in all
zoning districts.
      2.   In granting a conditional use permit, the village may impose
conditions to the extent the village concludes such conditions are necessary to
minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining properties.
      3.   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant submits,
whether civil, mechanical, or electrical shall be certified by a licensed
professional engineer.
      4.   Conditional use permit can only issue if applicant establishes that
no other viable alternative exists and all reasonable alternatives have been
thoroughly studied and considered. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
      5.   A conditional use permit shall be permitted in the R1, R2, SR1, SR2,
SR3, SR4, SE, SR, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A, and UR4. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004;
amd. Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014)
   B.   Information Required: Each applicant requesting a conditional use
permit shall submit a scaled site plan and a scaled elevation view and other
supporting drawings, calculations, and other documentation, signed and sealed
by appropriate licensed professionals, showing the location and dimensions of
all improvements, including information concerning topography, radio frequency
coverage, tower height requirements, setbacks, drives, parking, fencing,
landscaping, adjacent uses, and other information deemed by the village to be
necessary to assess compliance with this article.
   C.   Factors Considered In Granting Conditional Use Permits: The village
shall consider the following factors in determining whether to issue a
conditional use permit, although the village may waive or reduce the burden on
the applicant of one or more of these criteria if the village concludes that
the goals of this article are better served thereby:
      1.   Height of the proposed tower;
      2.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
      3.   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
      4.   Surrounding topography;
      5.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
      6.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
      7.   Proposed ingress and egress; and
      8.   Availability of suitable existing towers and other structures as
discussed in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Availability Of Suitable Existing Towers Or Other Structures: No new
tower shall be permitted unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable
satisfaction of the village that no existing tower or structure can accommodate
the applicant's proposed antenna. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no
existing tower or structure can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna
may consist of any of the following:
      1.   No existing towers or structures are located within the geographic
area required to meet applicant's engineering requirements.
      2.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to meet
applicant's engineering requirements.
      3.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
      4.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant's proposed antenna.
      5.   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner in
order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower or
structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs exceeding new tower development
are presumed to be unreasonable.
      6.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
   E.   Setbacks And Separation: The following setbacks and separation
requirements shall apply to all towers and antennas for which a conditional use
permit is required.
      1.   Towers must be set back a distance equal to the height of the tower
from any off site residential structure.
      2.   Towers, guys, and accessory facilities must satisfy the minimum
zoning district setback requirements.
      3.   In zoning districts other than CB, SB, LI, or LI-2 districts, towers
over ninety feet (90') in height shall not be located within one-fourth (1/4)
of a mile from any existing tower that is over ninety feet (90') in height.
   F.   Security Fencing: Towers shall be enclosed by approved security fencing
not less than six feet (6') in height and shall also be equipped with an
appropriate anticlimbing device; provided, however, that the village may waive
such requirements, as it deems appropriate.
   G.   Landscaping: The following requirements shall govern the landscaping
surrounding towers for which a conditional use permit is required; provided,
however, that the village may waive such requirements if the goals of this
article would be better served thereby:
      1.   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively screens the view of the tower compound from adjacent
residential property. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip
at least four feet (4') wide outside the perimeter of the compound. The
perimeter of the installation site shall be planted with canopy trees to screen
towers from view from off site.
      2.   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be minimal,
the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
      3.   Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the site shall
be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as towers
sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property perimeter may
be sufficient buffer. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6C-7: DEVIATIONS:
If the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the village board that any
provision or combination of provisions of this article individually or
collectively render it not reasonably possible to install a functioning
installation and all other possibilities have been exhausted, the village board
may waive, reduce, or substitute from the requirements of this article to
permit a functioning installation which will still be consistent with the
purpose and goals of this article. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-6C-8: REMOVAL:
   A.   If the installation is maintained or operated in such a fashion to be
in violation of subsection 10-6C-3D5 or D6 of this article or any other
provisions of this article and the owner has failed to eliminate the violation
within thirty (30) days of the mailing of written notice of violation to its
last known address, the village may remove such antenna or tower at the owner's
expense, and may use the posted bond to the extent necessary with the owner
responsible for any costs exceeding the available bond.
   B.   Any installation that is not operated for a continuous period of six
(6) months shall be considered abandoned, provided that if there are two (2) or
more users of a single tower, the tower shall not be considered abandoned until
all users cease using the tower. The owner of such installation shall remove
same within thirty (30) days of the mailing of written notice of abandonment to
its last known address. If the owner fails to remove the installation within
the thirty (30) day period, then the village may remove such installation at
the owner's expense, and may use the posted bond to the extent necessary with
the owner responsible for any costs exceeding the available bond. (Ord. 2004-
01-01, 1-14-2004)
ARTICLE D. SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6D-1: Title And Statement Of Purpose
10-6D-2: Definitions
10-6D-3: Sign Standards
10-6D-4: Signs Permitted In Residential Districts
10-6D-5: Signs Permitted In Non-Residential Zoning Districts
10-6D-6: Variations
10-6D-7: Penalties
10-6D-8: Schedule Of Fees
10-6D-9: Building Requirements And Permit Application Procedures
10-6D-1: TITLE AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This article is entitled the VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA SIGN
REGULATIONS and may be referred to as the "sign regulations".
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to:
      1.   Regulate signs in such a way as to support and complement land use
objectives set forth in this title and this Code.
      2.   Ensure that all signs within the Village are compatible with
existing land uses and/or buildings within the general area of the sign and/or
the community as a whole, with regard to size, location, color, construction,
materials and manner of display.
      3.   Permit such signs that do not confuse, mislead, and/or obstruct the
vision necessary for traffic safety, or otherwise endanger the public health,
safety, morals or general welfare.
      4.   To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of regulations and
restrictions.
      5.   To identify the types of signs which may or may not require
obtaining a permit from the Village prior to installation thereof. (Ord. 2019-
02-02, 2-4-2019)
10-6D-2: DEFINITIONS:
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or an animated scene. This type of sign is
prohibited.
BALLOON SIGN: Any inflatable object, whether depicting information or not, for
the purpose of attracting attention to a location. This type of sign is
prohibited.
BANNER: A temporary sign consisting of a piece of fabric or other flexible
material attached to two (2) or more pole(s) or staff(s) or line(s).
BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at one or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also
any light with one or more beams that rotate or move. This type of sign is
prohibited.
BENCH SIGN: Any sign that is part of, or affixed to, a bench, including, but
not limited to, a sidewalk bench, park bench, or a bench at a bus stop or
railroad station, or at another public place. This type of sign is prohibited.
BILLBOARD: Any sign, whether temporary or permanent, erected on private
property or attached to any building or other structure on private property
which relates to an activity or use no longer conducted or offered on the
premises to which such sign is annexed or attached. Also commonly referred to
as an off-premises sign. This type of sign is prohibited.
CANDELA: An internationally recognized base unit of measurement of luminous
intensity. A common candle emits light with a luminous intensity of roughly one
candela.
CANOPY SIGN: Any sign that is a section of or attached to an awning, canopy, or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy. A canopy sign is a
type of wall sign.
DIGITAL SIGNS OR DIGITAL DISPLAY: A sign or display that includes an internally
illuminated electronic presentation in the form of characters such as numbers,
letters, and graphics, including, but not limited to, cathode ray tube, light-
emitting diode ("LED"), liquid crystal display ("LCD"), neon, plasma, xenon,
and similar signs or displays which utilize any of these or any other similar
technologies.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The Village Administrator, or his or her designee.
EXEMPT SIGN: A sign not requiring a permit or payment of a fee to the Village
pursuant to this article, including but not limited to any Municipal sign,
regulatory signs, and/or signs located in a cemetery.
FEATHER SIGN: A temporary sign with a single anchor point into the ground or
into a stand that is rectangular in shape and is vertical in nature.
FLAG: A sign printed on and/or made of fabric or other flexible material which
is mounted and flown on a single pole.
FLASHING SIGN: A sign, the illumination of which is not kept constant in
intensity at all times when in use, and which exhibits sudden or marked changes
in lighting effects. This type of sign is prohibited.
FOOT CANDLE: A unit of illuminance of light intensity, meaning the illuminance
cast on a surface by a one-candela light source from one foot (1') away.
GROUND SIGN: A permanent sign anchored in the ground by means of a base on the
ground and not supported or attached to a pole or poles, which is placed in or
on an approved foundation, and not attached to a building.
MARQUEE: Any fixed hood (other than a canopy or awning), which is supported
solely by the building to which it is attached, is constructed of metal or
other non-combustible material. A marquee is a type of a wall sign.
MONUMENT SIGN: A permanent ground sign.
MUNICIPAL SIGN: Any sign located on public property and/or within any public
right-of-way which has been approved by the public body owning or having
maintenance jurisdiction over such location, including, but not limited to:
traffic-control signs, traffic signals and devices, and devices and/or safety
warnings; legal notices, identification signs for public buildings, or
departments, divisions, services, or structures of a public body; any
informational, directional, or warning sign; any regulatory signs; railroad
crossing signs; temporary emergency signs; and such other signs as may be
approved by the Governing Body or executive authority of the public body owning
or having maintenance jurisdiction over such location, which are determined by
such public body to serve a public purpose. Municipal signs shall be exempt
from this article, except as specifically provided herein.
NITS: A unit of measurement of luminance or intensity of visible light, where
one nit is equal to one candela per square meter. Nits are used to describe the
brightness of electronic displays, such as, but not limited to, LED displays or
LCD displays.
NON-RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS: The CR, CB, CA, CBD, SB, LI, LI-2, and RD
Zoning Districts of the Village.
NON-RIGID AWNING: An awning structure attached to a building, typically made of
tubular frame and covered with canvas or similar non-rigid fabric or material.
A non-rigid awning may only be a wall sign.
OBSOLETE SIGN: A sign that no longer relates to any on-site use, occupant(s),
or activity(ies). This type of sign is prohibited.
OFF-PREMISES: More commonly referred to as a "billboard" as defined herein.
This type of sign is prohibited.
PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind. This type of sign is
prohibited.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any sign or sign structure which is permanently affixed or
installed, and is intended for long term use.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported. Portable signs shall
be no greater than three feet (3') in height.
The following portable signs shall be prohibited: Signs designed to be
transported by means of wheels on a vehicle, or on a trailer, or otherwise;
balloons and/or inflatables used as signs; umbrella signs; signs attached to or
painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
said vehicle is used in the normal day to day operations of the business; and
any other portable sign not expressly permitted.
A-frame signs, T-frame signs, and sandwich board signs are portable signs which
shall only be displayed on the sidewalk area immediately outside a permitted
use in any Non-Residential Zoning District and shall be removed at all times
when the use is not open. No permit is required for this display.
PROJECTING SIGN (Also Referred To As OVERHANGING SIGNS): A sign supported by a
building or other structure, which projects over any street, sidewalk, alley,
or public way or public easement; or which projects more than four inches (4")
from the face of any building, structure, or supporting wall. Projecting signs
are prohibited.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: That land area over which any public entity has rights
either through ownership or easement, to use for public street, utility
purposes, or any other public purpose.
PYLON SIGN: A ground sign erected upon a pylon or a post. Pylon signs are
generally prohibited unless it can be demonstrated to the Village's Enforcement
Officer that a pylon sign is necessary, in place of a ground sign, because the
unique location of the property would make a ground sign not practical or if it
can be demonstrated that a pylon sign, not a ground sign would be necessary for
proper traffic visibility.
REGULATORY SIGN: Signs mandated by Federal or State Statute or regulations, or
by Village ordinance. Regulatory signs are a type of exempt sign.
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS: The AG, NC, SR1, SR2, SR3, UR1, UR2, UR3, UR3A,
and UR4 Zoning Districts of the Village.
ROOF SIGN: A sign that is placed above or supported on the top of a building.
This type of sign is prohibited.
SIGN: Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol or writing to announce the purpose of, or
identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate information of
any kind to the public.
SNIPE SIGN: A sign which is attached to trees, utility poles, or to other
objects, with a message appearing on such sign that does not apply to the
present use of the premises or structure upon which the sign is located,
including, but not limited to, any sign in a public right-of-way, unless
written approval therefor has been issued by the Village's Enforcement Officer
for such sign.
SURFACE AREA: The entire area within any continuous perimeter enclosing the
extreme limits of lettering, representations, emblems, logos or other figures
or messages, together with any material or color which is an integral part of
the display or which is used to differentiate the sign from the background
against which it is placed. In the case of a double-faced sign, only one side
of the sign is considered in determining sign area if: a) the sign is
substantially identical on both sides, and b) the sides of the sign diverge at
an angle of less than forty five degrees (45°).
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign intended to be used for a limited period of time and
not usually permanently mounted. Usually, a sign constructed of cloth, fabric,
paper, cardboard, or any other lightweight material with or without a
structural frame intended for a limited period of display. A temporary sign may
be either a ground sign or a wall sign.
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS: Traffic control signs, traffic signals and devices, and/
or traffic safety warnings, whether within a public right-of-way, or on private
rights-of-way owned by a residential condominium association or homeowners'
association. Traffic control signs are a type of regulatory sign and,
therefore, are an exempt sign.
TRI-VISION SIGN: A sign, also known as a "three-message sign", that can display
three (3) individual images or messages and consists of triangular prisms
placed inside a frame which prisms rotate one hundred twenty degrees (120°),
each displaying a message.
VEHICLE AND/OR TRAILER SIGN: A sign attached to an operable or inoperable
vehicle or trailer which is or could be licensed to operate on the public
streets. Any sign attached to, painted on, or otherwise applied to a vehicle or
trailer that is regularly parked or placed for three (3) hours or more in a
location visible from a public street shall be deemed a portable sign. These
types of signs are prohibited.
WALL SIGN: A sign painted on, attached to, and/or mounted on the exterior of a
building or structure, and which is placed below the outside edge of a building
overhang and/or below the lowest roofline, including but not limited to a non-
rigid awning sign as defined herein.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign that is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or
glass and which is visible from the exterior of the window of a building or
other structure, including but not limited to a digital sign and/or a digital
display which is visible through a window. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019)
10-6D-3: SIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Construction Of This Article: This article shall be construed to the
greatest extent possible consistent with the United States Constitution, the
Illinois Constitution, and other applicable State and Federal laws.
      2.   Compliance With Code: Signs shall be classified and permitted in
accordance with this article and only those signs specifically permitted by
this article shall be permitted. The classification of signs shall be in
accordance with the various use districts designated now or hereafter
established in this title and shall be subject to further restrictions by all
application provisions of this Code.
      3.   Signs Permitted By Zoning District:
         a.   All Zoning Districts: Municipal signs, including digital and/or
electronic Municipal signs, and regulatory signs are permitted in every zoning
district.
         b.   Residential Zoning Districts: Only temporary signs, signs located
on property owned and maintained by a residential condominium association, by a
homeowners' association, by a residential apartment complex, and/or by a
residential senior housing complex and/or exempt signs are allowed in any
Residential Zoning District of the Village.
         c.   Non-Residential Districts: Permanent signs are a permitted use in
any Non-Residential Zoning District of the Village.
      4.   Signs Prohibited In Any Village Right-Of-Way: No signs, other than
Municipal signs, shall be permitted on any Village property or within any
Village right-of-way.
      5.   Relationship To Site: All sign(s) located on private property must
relate in some manner to the use(s), occupant(s), and/or activity(ies) which
are occupying, are located on and/or are occurring on the private property on
which the sign(s) are located.
      6.   Obsolete Signs: Any sign which identifies a use, occupancy, and/or
activity no longer being conducted or a product no longer being sold shall be
removed by the owner(s) of the property or the person(s) having occupancy of
and/or control over the property upon which such sign is located, within thirty
(30) calendar days after written notice from the Enforcement Officer, subject
to the following:
         a.   Conforming Sign: If a structure is vacant for a period of thirty
(30) calendar days or longer, any conforming sign(s) related to the use of such
structure shall be removed within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of
such written notice.
         b.   Nonconforming Sign: If a structure is vacant for a period of
thirty (30) calendar days or longer, any nonconforming sign(s) related to the
use of such structure shall be removed within thirty (30) calendar days after
the date of such written notice.
      7.   Removal Of Illegal Nonconforming Signs: Any sign that is in
violation of this article and is erected after the effective date hereof or has
been previously erected without a permit is hereby classified as "illegal and
nonconforming". Whenever the Enforcement Officer determines that an illegal and
nonconforming sign exists, he or she shall notify in writing the owner(s) and
occupant(s) of the property upon which such sign is displayed. Such person(s)
shall, within ten (10) calendar days, either remove the sign or initiate such
action as is necessary to cause the sign to comply with this article, including
applying for any required permit. The running of such ten (10) calendar day
period shall be suspended during the time any application for a permit, or any
appeal from the notice, or any application for a variation is pending.
      8.   Maintenance; Damage To Nonconforming Signs: All legal nonconforming
signs shall otherwise be maintained in conformance with all applicable Village
ordinances and shall, in any event, be maintained in good condition and repair.
Normal maintenance of signs, including necessary non-structural and non-
electrical repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify
the legal nonconforming features of the sign, is permitted. However, no
structural alterations, enlargement or extensions nor any electrical
modifications shall be made to any nonconforming sign unless the alteration
will result in eliminating the nonconforming aspect(s) of the sign. If a sign
is damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of
its replacement value or fifty percent (50%) of its surface area, the sign may
not be rebuilt or used thereafter unless it conforms to all of the provisions
of this article, and said sign must be removed from the premises.
      9.   Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: If the Enforcement Officer finds that any
sign is unsafe or unsecure, or constitutes a danger to the public, or has been
constructed or erected, or is being maintained in violation of the provisions
of this article or other provisions of this title or of this Code, he or she
shall give written notice to the owner and occupants of the premises in
compliance with subsection I, "Notice(s) Of Violation", of this section.
      10.   Signs Not To Constitute Traffic Hazard Or Cause Glare: No sign,
whether an exempt sign or not, whether temporary or permanent, and whether
otherwise conforming or nonconforming with respect to this article, shall be
erected or maintained in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or
as to distract the attention of the driver of any vehicle, bicyclist, and/or
pedestrian by reason of the position, shape or other characteristics thereof.
Without any limitation on the foregoing:
         a.   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to be
likely to interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or in such a manner as to cause
glare on any public area or on any residential property.
         b.   No sign shall make use of the words "Stop", "Go", "Look", "Slow",
"Danger", or any other similar word, phrase, symbol, or character; and no sign
shall employ any red, yellow, orange, green or other colored lamp or light in
such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
         c.   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to
interfere with safe sight lines of drivers, bicyclists, and/or pedestrians
using any public right-of-way or using any other public property.
      11.   Change Of Use Or Name Of Occupant On Legal Nonconforming Signs: No
legal nonconforming sign shall be changed to another nonconforming sign except
that the letters, words, and/or symbols of a legal nonconforming sign may be
changed by replacing nonstructural components on which the letters, words, and/
or symbols are displayed, such as a panel or insert, which panel or insert must
comply with all currently applicable sign regulations. No part of a legal
nonconforming sign's supporting structure, electrical, or lighting equipment
shall be replaced or modified so as to extend the life of such sign.
      12.   Location: Signs shall be located only on the property of the owner
(s) of the sign or on public property where the owner or maintenance
jurisdiction of the public property has consented to display of such sign for a
public purpose.
      13.   Lighting Standards:
         a.   Illumination: In Residential Zoning Districts, signs may be
illuminated only by indirect lighting, or backlighting, which lighting shall,
in any event, not exceed fifty (50) foot candles when measured with a standard
light meter held parallel to the face of the sign at a distance equal to the
narrowest dimension of the sign face. In other zoning districts, internal
illumination of signs shall be permitted.
         b.   Glare: All lighting of any sign shall concentrate the
illumination upon the display surface of the sign to prevent glare onto any
street or adjacent property, and shields and/or reflectors shall be used where
necessary for this purpose.
         c.   Ground Signs: Both internally illuminated and externally
illuminated lighting sources are permitted for ground signs in Non-Residential
Zoning Districts.
         d.   Wall Signs: Both internally illuminated and externally
illuminated lighting sources are permitted for wall signs in Non- Residential
Zoning Districts.
         e.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs which are internally or
externally illuminated shall receive their electrical supply from an electrical
source that is underground, and overhead electrical lines to such signs shall
hereafter be prohibited.
         f.   Inspection: After completion of installation and before the sign
is illuminated for regular use, the sign shall be inspected by the Village's
Enforcement Officer and approved in writing to determine whether such sign
complies with this article and with the approved permit, plans and
specifications therefor, and to confirm that the direction of the lighting does
not: 1) interfere with the vision of drivers on any nearby road, street or
highway, or 2) cause any excess illumination on any property used for
residential purposes.
   B.   Sign Line Of Sight Setbacks: All ground signs erected in the Village
shall have side yard setback from adjoining lot lines a minimum of five feet
(5'). The required setback from any road right-of-way shall provide the site
distances as stated below:
 
Posted Speed Limit (mph) Site Distance Required
30                       410 feet
35                       530 feet
40                       660 feet
45                       840 feet
50                       1,030 feet
55                       1,240 feet
 
Driver's eye: 3.5 feet above pavement.
Driver's eye: 10 feet behind pavement edge.
Object height (approaching vehicle): 4.5 feet above the center of the traffic
lane.
No sign shall encroach onto any public right-of-way.
Minimum 5 feet side yard setback from adjoining lot lines.
   C.   Sign Appearance Standards:
      1.   Ground signs shall be constructed to incorporate brick, stone, wood
or other distinctive design materials as approved by the Village's Enforcement
Officer. Ground signs shall be constructed with similar architectural
characteristics as the principal building or surrounding buildings as approved
by the Enforcement Officer.
      2.   Wall signs shall incorporate and/or complement the design aspects
and/or colors of the respective building or structure on which such sign is
located. A wall sign may be painted on, attached to, and/or mounted on the
exterior of a building or structure, and must be placed below the outside edge
of a building overhang and/or below the lowest roofline. Wall signs, other than
wall signs which are painted on a building or structure, must be constructed of
nonflexible materials.
   D.   Standards For Digital Signs And/Or For Digital Displays:
      1.   Flashing or rotating or other similar digital or mechanical
animations used on such signs to draw attention are prohibited.
      2.   The background of any digital message area shall be of a solid
color.
      3.   Digital signs are limited to one digital display area.
      4.   Digital messages (text) must be static or displayed for a minimum of
eight (8) seconds. Other digital displays shall be static or displayed for a
minimum of twenty four (24) hours at one time.
      5.   The digital message area of a ground sign shall not exceed forty
(40) square feet.
      6.   Digital messages (text) shall be of no more than two (2) colors.
There is no limit on the number of colors for pictures or videos displayed on a
digital sign.
      7.   The digital portion of any such sign must be enclosed on both sides
by other sign materials such as brick, stone, wood and/or other distinctive
design materials.
      8.   The digital message area of any such sign shall not have an "undue
brightness", which shall be defined as greater than five thousand (5,000) nits
during the day and greater than five hundred (500) nits at night.
      9.   The owners and/or users of any digital sign or digital display shall
jointly and severally be required to and shall reduce the level of brightness
if it is determined by the Village's Enforcement Officer that the light levels
of such digital sign or display exceed the brightness levels permitted by this
article.
      10.   The digital portion of the sign may not be greater than nine feet
(9') in total height.
      11.   The digital message area of the digital sign shall be programmed to
dim and brighten automatically in response to changes in ambient light.
      12.   Prior to issuance of a permit for a digital sign, the applicant
shall provide to the Village written certification from the sign manufacturer
or installer that the light intensity of such digital sign has been factory
preset not to exceed the levels permitted by this article.
      13.   The digital message area shall be controlled electronically by a
computer or other similar device that has a manual override.
      14.   The digital message area shall either freeze or go blank in the
event of a malfunction.
      15.   Digital signs and/or digital displays shall not be permitted in any
Residential or Agricultural Zoning District, except on the site of a school,
church, or other place of public assembly. Where digital sign(s) and/or display
(s) are permitted in any Residential or Agricultural Zoning District, such sign
(s) may remain on only until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., at which time such
digital sign(s) are required to be programmed to turn off entirely.
      16.   Digital signs shall be permitted in the form of a ground sign or
window sign, but not as a wall sign. Digital ground signs shall not exceed
forty (40) square feet in surface area, but digital window signs shall not
exceed twenty (20) square feet of surface area. Digital window signs shall be
static or displayed for a minimum of twenty four (24) hours at one time. The
number of or aggregate surface area of such signs otherwise allowed by this
article shall not thereby be increased.
      17.   The Village's Enforcement Officer may impose additional
restrictions if he or she determines that a digital sign would otherwise
adversely impact the residential character of the neighborhood in which it is
located, and in any event, no digital sign(s) and/or display(s) shall be
located within one hundred feet (100') of a residential use, except as
specifically permitted by this article.
      18.   Digital signs and/or digital display(s) shall also be permitted as
Municipal signs in any zoning district.
      19.   Any sign not specifically permitted by this article shall be and is
hereby prohibited.
   E.   Landscaping Requirements: All permanent ground signs shall provide a
landscaped area with appropriate natural plant material ground cover and/or
other landscape plantings located at the base of said ground sign equal in area
to the sign surface area. When earthen berms are used as part of said
landscaping, the earthen berms shall maintain a side slope of no greater than
three to one (3:1) with a maximum berm height of three feet (3') above adjacent
surrounding grade. When earthen berms are used, such earthen berms shall count
toward the maximum permissible sign height.
   F.   Permits Required:
      1.   Required: A permit shall be required for all signs except as
otherwise provided herein. Any sign requiring electrical alteration(s) shall
require the issuance of an electrical alteration permit and shall be charged a
residential or commercial electrical alteration permit fee, as the case may be.
      2.   Prohibited Without Permit: No sign shall be constructed, affixed or
installed, or displayed in public view, without the prior issuance of all
required permits.
      3.   Fees: Permit fees shall be paid to the Village in accordance with
the schedule of fees as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this code.
      4.   Signs Not Requiring A Permit: The following signs shall not require
a sign permit:
         a.   Municipal signs.
         b.   Other exempt signs as defined herein.
         c.   Flags do not require a permit but are subject to the size and
location limitations below:
            (1)   The total area of all flags on a lot shall not exceed sixty
four (64) square feet in area;
            (2)   No flag shall be flown from a pole that exceeds forty feet
(40') in height;
            (3)   If a flag is mounted to a building, the vertical clearance
from ground level when limp shall not be less than nine feet (9'); and
            (4)   No flags shall be mounted above the roofline of a structure.
         d.   Window signs including but not limited to all digital signs and/
or digital displays used as window signs, but all such window signs shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the glass areas of any elevation of a
building.
         e.   Decorations of a temporary and primarily decorative nature,
clearly incidental to and customarily associated with traditional accepted
civic, patriotic, seasonal, and/or religious holidays and similar events.
         f.   Interior signs erected within the confines of a building and
which signs are not visible through windows or other open or transparent areas.
         g.   Repainting, changing of parts and preventive maintenance of signs
located on the site without changing or altering sign design, logo, or wording.
   G.   Other Prohibited Signs: All signs not specifically permitted by this
article shall be prohibited. Such signs include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Roof signs.
      2.   Strings of light, unless expressly exempted by this article,
including LED, LCD, incandescent, or other types of strings of lights used to
accent a window or other building or structural feature.
      3.   Inflatable devices and/or signs and tethered balloons.
      4.   Beacons, airborne signs, spotlights, and/or searchlights.
      5.   Signs that by their position, operation, illumination, size, shape
and/or color, obstruct, impair, obscure, or interfere with traffic signs,
signals, or devices and/or distract motorist(s) and/or pedestrian(s) in such a
manner so as to impair the public safety.
      6.   Signs, including any temporary signs, that are faded, torn, ripped,
not properly maintained, or are otherwise in disrepair, are hazardous,
defective, structurally unsound, and/or are otherwise unsafe as determined by
the Village's Enforcement Officer.
      7.   Any sign or illumination that causes any direct glare into or upon
any building, other than the building to which the sign may be related.
      8.   Billboards and other off-premises signs which advertise and/or
identify uses and/or activities which are no longer made, produced, sold, or
present on the premises or site where the sign is located. Signs as a principal
use in any zoning district except as otherwise provided for in this article are
likewise prohibited.
      9.   Any sign that violates any provision of any law of the State of
Illinois or of this Village relative to outdoor advertising.
      10.   Trivision signs.
      11.   Any sign, other than a Municipal sign, located within a public
right-of-way.
      12.   The posting of any signs on any permanent or temporary structure or
building, pole, rock, or on any other natural feature located in any public
right-of-way, public park, public way, or on any other public property.
      13.   Signs mounted to any wall or fence, except as otherwise permitted
by this article.
      14.   Statues when used as a sign.
      15.   Temporary signs affixed to or used as permanent signs.
      16.   Vehicle and/or trailer signs as defined in this article.
      17.   Any sign used to exhibit, convey, and/or display in any manner any
statement, word, character, or illustration of any obscene, indecent, or
immoral nature.
      18.   Signs on any wall, fence, or standard facing the side of any
adjoining lot located in any Residential Zoning District classification.
      19.   Unlawful signs. Any permanent or temporary sign that has been
constructed or erected, or is being maintained in violation of any of the
provisions of this article.
      20.   Except as otherwise provided in this article, any sign which, or
any part of which, is in motion by any means, including fluttering or rotating,
or other signs set in motion by movement of the atmosphere. This includes all
flags, pennants, whirling objects, windsocks, banners, or other entity(ies)
attached to strings or lines.
      21.   Signs that obstruct any window, door, fire escape, stairway, or
opening intended to provide light, air, ingress, or egress for any building
that would cause a violation of Building Codes.
      22.   Any sign which is prohibited by this article.
   H.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary Signs Generally:
         a.   Temporary signs shall not extend over or into any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public right-of-way or a distance greater than four inches
(4") from the wall to which it is attached, and shall not be placed or project
over any wall opening.
         b.   No temporary sign shall be an off-premises sign or billboard.
         c.   Multi-tenant buildings shall be considered as one use and as one
zoning lot or parcel for the purpose of the display of any temporary sign.
      2.   Temporary Signs In Non-Residential Districts:
         a.   Temporary Signs Permitted: Temporary signs shall be allowed in
Non-Residential Zoning Districts without a permit if the following conditions
are met:
            (1)   Not more than three (3) such temporary signs shall be
permitted on any zoning lot or parcel in any Non-Residential Zoning District.
            (2)   The surface area for each such temporary sign shall not
exceed twenty four (24) square feet in area.
            (3)   The aggregate surface area of all temporary signs permitted
on a single zoning lot or parcel shall not exceed seventy two (72) square feet.
            (4)   No such temporary sign shall exceed four feet (4') in height.
            (5)   Such temporary signs shall only be permitted as ground signs
and shall not be attached to any building or other structure.
      3.   Temporary Signs In Residential Zoning Districts:
         a.   Any temporary sign shall only be used as a ground sign, and not
as a wall sign or window sign, on any single zoning lot or parcel in any
Residential Zoning District.
         b.   All temporary signs located on one zoning lot or parcel in any
Residential Zoning District shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of
aggregate surface area for all such signs.
         c.   No temporary sign in any Residential Zoning District shall exceed
six feet (6') in height from ground level to the highest part of any such
temporary sign.
         d.   No temporary sign shall be displayed on private property in any
Residential District, except on the property of the owner(s) of such sign.
         e.   No permit shall be required for any such temporary sign(s) which
complies with the requirements of this subsection H3.
   I.   Notice(s) Of Violation: If the Village Enforcement Officer or the
Village building inspector shall find that any sign within the Village is
unsafe, unlawful, and/or does not comply in any way with this article, the
Village's Enforcement Officer or the building inspector, or any other Village
officer or employee, shall give written notice thereof to the owner(s) and/or
occupant(s) of the property upon which the sign is located requiring that said
sign be brought into compliance with this article within ten (10) calendar days
after the date of said notice. If the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of the
property fail to take the necessary action to bring such sign into compliance
with this article within said ten (10) calendar day time frame, the Village is
authorized to and may, but is not obligated to, take necessary enforcement
action to abate such violation(s), including but not limited to the removal of
such sign(s) at the sole cost and expense of the property owner and/or at the
sole cost and expense of the owner of the sign. The Village's Enforcement
Officer is authorized to and may cause a lien to be recorded against the
property on which the sign is located for any costs incurred by the Village
relative to any such removal or other remedial work performed by the Village.
(Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-6D-4: SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
No permanent signs shall be permitted in Residential Zoning Districts except in
accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Ground Signs: Permanent ground signs on the private property of a
residential condominium or townhome association, a residential apartment
complex, and/or a residential senior housing complex are permitted, but the
maximum sign surface area of each such sign shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet.
   B.   Sign Appearance Standards: The sign appearance standards set forth in
subsection 10-6D-3C of this article shall be applicable to all permanent signs
in Residential Zoning Districts.
   C.   Surface Area: The maximum permitted aggregate surface area of all
permanent signs on any zoning lot or parcel in any Residential Zoning District
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet.
   D.   Height: The maximum height for any permitted signs shall be six feet
(6') within any Residential Zoning District.
   E.   Lighting: Lighting for signs within any Residential Zoning District
shall be permitted in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
article, and specifically, subsection 10-6D-3A13 of this article.
   F.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs within any Residential Zoning District
are only permitted in accordance with the applicable provisions of this
article.
   G.   Digital Signs Or Displays: No digital signs or digital displays shall
be permitted within any Residential Zoning District, except as expressly
otherwise provided by this article.
   H.   Signs Not Permitted: Wall, fascia, awning and/or canopy signs, marquee
signs, and window signs are not permitted. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019)
10-6D-5: SIGNS PERMITTED IN NON-RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
No permanent signs shall be installed or permitted in any Non- Residential
Zoning District, except in accordance with the following standards:
   A.   Permitted Signs:
      1.   Only one permanent ground sign on any one zoning lot or parcel shall
be permitted for each street frontage, except for zoning lots or parcels with
greater than seven hundred fifty (750) linear feet of street frontage, where a
maximum of two (2) such signs shall be permitted.
      2.   Permitted permanent wall sign(s) shall be fascia, awning or canopy
and marquee signs.
      3.   Digital signs and/or displays shall only be as permitted pursuant to
the applicable provisions of this article, and specifically, subsection 10-6D-
3D of this article.
   B.   Sign Appearance Standards: The sign appearance standards set forth in
subsection 10-6D-3C of this article shall be applicable to all permanent signs
in Non-Residential Zoning Districts.
   C.   Surface Area; Ground Signs: All such permitted permanent ground sign(s)
shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) square feet of surface area in the
aggregate.
   D.   Surface Area; Wall Signs: The maximum aggregate sign surface area for
all permanent wall signs shall be 0.70 square foot per one linear foot of
exterior wall width fronting on a public street up to a maximum of two hundred
(200) linear feet of public street frontage.
   E.   Sign Height: The maximum sign height for any permitted permanent ground
sign shall be twelve feet (12').
   F.   Lighting: Lighting of such permanent signs shall be as permitted in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this article, and specifically,
subsection 10-6D-3A13 of this article.
   G.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall only be permitted in such zoning
districts in accordance with the applicable provisions of this article.
   H.   Window Signs: Window signs shall only be permitted in accordance with
the applicable provisions of this article. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019)
10-6D-6: VARIATIONS:
   A.   The Zoning Board of Appeals, upon receipt of a written application for
a variation from this article, may, after holding any required public hearing
thereon, recommend to the Board of Trustees of the Village that one or more
variation(s) from this article either be denied or be granted to permit the
continued use of an existing nonconforming sign, or the erection and use of a
new sign. The Zoning Board of Appeals may recommend approval of the requested
variation(s) if the Zoning Board of Appeals finds that all of the following
criteria are satisfied:
      1.   That the proposed or existing sign is innovative and/or creative;
      2.   That the proposed or existing sign is compatible with surrounding
land uses and existing signs;
      3.   That the granting of approval for this proposed or existing sign is
consistent with the overall purpose of this article; and
      4.   That due to the unique circumstances, including but not limited to
safety considerations, the proposed or existing sign is aesthetically
consistent with the environment and because of these circumstances or
considerations is necessary that a variation be granted for the erection of the
proposed sign or continued use of existing sign, or to prevent an extreme
hardship.
   B.   The Village's Board of Trustees shall consider the recommendation of
the Zoning Board of Appeals or of the Plan Commission and, after holding any
required public hearing thereon, shall make the final decision on all
applications for sign variations. The Board of Trustees may accept and approve,
reject and disapprove, or modify the recommendation of the Zoning Board of
Appeals relative to any application for a sign variation. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-
4-2019)
10-6D-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall upon
conviction be subject to a mandatory fine for each violation as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A separate offense shall be deemed to have
occurred on each day upon which a violation occurs or continues. For the
purpose of this article, a "person" shall mean and include any individual,
partnership, corporation, association, or any other legal entity. Both property
owner and occupant, if different, shall be jointly and severally responsible
for compliance with the terms and conditions of this article.
   B.   A person who violates this article shall be responsible for all
attorney fees and costs incurred by the Village in enforcing the terms of this
Article and for any fines. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
10-6D-8: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A.   Except for temporary signage, the fee for installation of a sign shall
be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per sign. This fee is for the signage only. A
separate building permit shall be required for construction and/or installation
of the exterior support structure on which the signage is placed.
   B.   There shall be an additional fee as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per sign for signs which are designed to be served,
in whole or in part, by electricity.
   C.   The fee for a temporary sign, other than an exempt sign, shall be as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code per sign.
   D.   The non-refundable application fee, to be paid at the time of
application for a variation from the provisions of this Article or any appeal
to cover the Village's costs for public hearings, public notice, and other out-
of-pocket costs incurred by the Village, shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
10-6D-9: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS AND PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application For Permanent Sign: When a permit is required to erect or
alter one or more permanent signs on a zoning lot, the application shall
include the following:
      1.   An accurate plot plan of the zoning lot or parcel, at a reasonable
scale.
      2.   Location of buildings, parking lots, driveways, and landscaped areas
on such zoning lot or parcel.
      3.   An accurate indication on the plot plan of the location of each
existing and proposed sign of any type, whether requiring a permit or not,
except that incidental signs need not be shown.
      4.   An accurate indication of the proposed sign's size, height,
dimensions from normal grade and type of material that is being used to make
the sign.
      5.   An accurate representation of the sign dimensions, proposed color of
the supporting structure, background and lettering.
      6.   Additional information as may be required by the Enforcement
Officer.
      7.   Application shall be accompanied by the business registration
certificate, if any.
   B.   Application For A Temporary Sign: When a permit is required to erect
temporary signs on a zoning lot or parcel pursuant to this article, an
application for a temporary sign permit shall include the following:
      1.   An approved temporary use permit, if applicable.
      2.   An accurate indication of the proposed sign's size, height,
location, area, means of mounting or anchoring and the number of type of
temporary signs.
      3.   The beginning and end date of the temporary sign display, including
the number of days.
      4.   Such other information as may be required by the Enforcement
Officer.
Signs displayed inconsistent with the approved permit may preclude the
applicant from obtaining additional temporary sign permits.
   C.   Processing/Action For Approval Of Applications:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of the submission of a complete application,
the Enforcement Officer shall either:
         a.   Approve the plan if the application conforms in every respect
with the requirements of this article; or
         b.   Reject the plan if the proposed sign fails in any way to conform
to the requirements of this title. In the case of a rejection, the Enforcement
Officer shall specify the reason for the rejection.
      2.   Failure of the Enforcement Officer to make a determination shall
constitute a denial of the application.
   D.   Permit Display: A true copy of the building/sign permit card shall be
posted on the site of operations, in public view during the entire time of
construction and until completion of the same, so that the inspectors can sign
off on each required inspection.
   E.   Building Codes Applicable For Sign Permits:
      1.   Conformance: Structure(s) upon which signs are to be affixed, and
all signs to be applied, attached, anchored and/or fastened thereto, if any,
shall be constructed and installed in compliance with the relevant provisions,
if any, of the Village's Building Code and all other applicable Village
ordinances.
      2.   Permits: Two (2) permits may be required, one for the sign structure
and one for the actual signage proposed to be attached to the sign structure.
One is a building permit and the other is a sign permit.
      3.   Unsafe Signs: If the Village's Enforcement Officer or the Village
building inspector shall find that any sign is not properly secured or is
otherwise unsafe or a potential threat to the public health, safety and/or
welfare, the building inspector shall give written notice to the property owner
thereof. If the property owner fails to take the necessary action to make the
sign safe, secure, and no longer a threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare within ten (10) calendar days after the date of such notice, the
Village shall take necessary legal action.
      4.   Illuminated Signs: All illuminated signs shall be subject to the
provisions of the current version of the Electrical Code as adopted by the
Village from time to time, and all other applicable Village ordinances.
      5.   Required Notice For Inspections:
         a.   The following inspections are required to be made by the Village
for all signs requiring permits. The owner or the contractor shall request the
designated inspection twenty four (24) hours in advance of the time when such
inspection is to be made.
         b.   Footing and setback: Inspection shall be made before poles or
piers are set or after excavation for trenches and forming, but prior to
placing concrete.
         c.   Electrical inspections:
            (1)   Disconnecting means.
            (2)   Underground or overhead wiring to sign.
            (3)   Sign connection.
            (4)   Sign wiring.
            (5)   Any other requirements as provided by the current version of
the Lake Villa Electrical Code as adopted by the Village from time to time.
         d.   In addition to the above stated inspections, the Village's
Enforcement Officer or the building inspector is authorized to and may make or
require other additional inspection(s) to ascertain compliance with this
article and/or all other applicable ordinances of the Village adopted from time
to time.
      6.   Approved Materials And Workmanship:
         a.   All materials and devices for any proposed signage and any
structure upon which such signage is to be affixed shall be approved in advance
in writing by the Village's Enforcement Officer or the Village's building
inspector and shall be constructed and installed in accordance with such
approval and all applicable ordinances of the Village.
         b.   All work shall be conducted, performed and completed in a
workmanlike and approved manner so as to secure the results intended by this
article. (Ord. 2019-02-02, 2-4-2019)
ARTICLE E. RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
10-6E-1: Purposes
10-6E-2: General Requirements
10-6E-3: Small Wind Energy Systems
10-6E-4: Solar Energy Systems
10-6E-5: Maintenance And Removal Of Renewable Energy Systems
10-6E-6: Prohibited Renewable Energy Systems
10-6E-7: Standards For Conditional Use
10-6E-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this article are to:
   A.   Establish zoning regulations relative to the installation and operation
of renewable energy systems permitted to be installed within the Village, i.e.,
small wind energy systems and solar renewable energy systems.
   B.   Accommodate sustainable energy production from renewable energy
sources.
   C.   Preserve the character and aesthetics of the Village's zoning districts
in the interest of maintaining property values, and promoting the public
health, safety and welfare of Village residents and businesses. (Ord. 2024-02-
02, 2-5-2024)
10-6E-2:  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The requirements set forth in this article shall govern the renewable energy
systems which may be installed within the Village.
   A.   Applicability: The provisions of this article are intended to establish
zoning regulations for solar energy systems and small wind energy systems which
may be installed in the Village. Geothermal energy systems and large wind
energy systems are not permitted within any zoning district of the Village.
Renewable energy installations not explicitly addressed herein may be
authorized by a conditional use permit issued by the Village subject to
compliance with the applicable provisions of this Village Code.
   B.   Use: Except as authorized by the Board of Trustees of the Village for
public utility purposes, a renewable energy system shall be accessory to the
principal permitted use of a site.
   C.   Approvals: No approval granted for a renewable energy system under the
provisions of this Section shall be construed to prevent ordinary or permitted
building, landscaping, or other accessory improvements on adjacent properties.
   D.   Permitting And Installation:
      1.   A building permit is required to be obtained from the Village prior
to commencement of any construction activity relative to the installation of
any renewable energy system.
      2.   The owner of a renewable energy system shall ensure that it is
installed and maintained in good condition and in compliance with all
applicable provisions of this Village Code and the laws, statutes, codes, and
regulations enforced by any State or Federal agency of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   All small wind energy systems shall be equipped with manual and/or
automatic controls to limit rotation of blades to a speed below the
manufacturer's designed limits.
      4.   All wiring associated with a renewable energy system shall be
underground or contained within a raceway that complements the building
materials of the principal structure.
      5.   Interconnection: Energy produced by a renewable energy system shall
be utilized on-site, except for net metering as authorized by the appropriate
regulatory agencies required by law.
      6.   Illumination of a renewable energy system shall be prohibited,
except to accommodate co-installation of parking lot lighting luminaries, where
applicable.
      7.   Signage: No commercial signage or attention-getting device is
permitted on any renewable energy system. A sign of a plain white background
with black lettering not exceeding four (4) square feet in size shall be
provided on each small wind energy system which indicates the emergency contact
information of the property owner or operator.
      8.   Screening: There shall be no required mechanical screening for
renewable energy systems. (Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-5-2024)
10-6E-3: SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Authorization Of Use:
      1.   Building-Mounted Small Wind Energy System:
         a.   Conditional Use: Building-mounted small wind energy systems shall
be permitted as a conditional use in the CB, SB, LI, and LI-2 Zoning Districts
and shall be installed in compliance with the requirements of this Section and
the other applicable provisions of this Village Code.
         b.   Maximum Permitted Height: The maximum total permitted height of a
building-mounted small wind energy system shall not exceed ten feet (10') above
the peak roof height of the building upon which said system is installed, or
ten feet (10') above the maximum building height permitted in the respective
zoning district in which said system will be located, whichever is less.
         c.   Location:
            (1)   Building-mounted small wind energy systems shall be affixed
to the roof deck of a flat roof or to the ridge or slope of a pitched roof and
may not be affixed to the parapet or chimney of any structure.
            (2)   Such systems shall be set back a minimum of five feet (5')
from the edge or eave of the roof.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Small Wind Energy System: Ground-mounted small wind
energy systems shall be prohibited in all Zoning Districts of the Village.
   B.   Noise: Sound levels for any building-mounted small wind energy system
shall not exceed the maximum decibels established in Section
10-4-1-3  (Performance Standards) of this Title. The Village may, at its
discretion, require a professional sound measurement by a third party expert at
the expense of the property owner, to confirm that the performance of such a
wind energy system complies with said Performance Standards.
   C.   Color: Building-mounted small wind energy systems shall be
monochromatic in color, finished with a neutral and non -reflective coating,
such as white or light grey. Ground equipment, such as cabinets and associated
facilities, shall be factory-finished to match or complement the color of other
structures on the respective property. (Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-5-2024)
10-6E-4: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Authorization Of Use:
      1.   Permitted Use: Building-mounted solar energy systems may be
authorized administratively by a building permit in all zoning districts in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and the other applicable
provisions of this Village Code and shall be subject to prior review of the
plans therefor and written approval thereof by the Zoning Enforcement Officer
and the Building Commissioner, or their designees.
      2.   Conditional Use: Any ground-mounted solar energy system must be
specifically authorized by a conditional use, but such systems shall only be
located within the Village' s AG, LI, or LI-2 Zoning District.
   B.   Height:
      1.   Building-Mounted Solar Energy System:
         a.   When installed on a flat roof, a building-mounted solar energy
system shall not exceed a maximum height of six feet (6') as measured from the
roof surface of the building on which the system will be mounted to the highest
point of the system as installed;
         b.   When installed on a pitched roof, a building-mounted solar energy
system shall be mounted parallel to the pitch of the roof and not extend more
than one foot (1') off of the roof surface;
         c.   In any event, the height of a building-mounted solar energy
system shall not exceed five feet (5') above the peak roof height of said
building or five feet (5') above the maximum permitted building height of the
respective zoning district, whichever is less.
      2.   Ground-Mounted Solar Energy System: The maximum height of a ground-
mounted solar energy system shall be six feet (6') as measured from the average
grade at the base of the system to the highest edge of the system as installed.
   C.   Location Of Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems:
      1.   All ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be subject to and
shall require a conditional use permit authorizing installation and maintenance
thereof by an ordinance approved by the Corporate Authorities of the Village
after a required public hearing thereon, which conditional use permit shall
require and include, but not be limited to, the applicant' s submission to the
Village of a landscape screening plan and a plan for the decommissioning of
such system, including a performance guarantee, all of which shall be approved
by the conditional use ordinance.
      2.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not be located within any
portion of the required front yard or corner side yard of any lot or parcel or
in any utility, water, sewer, or other type of public or Village easement.
      3.   All parts of any ground-mounted solar energy system shall be set
back at least fifteen feet (15') from any interior side lot line(s) and at
least fifteen feet (15') from any rear property line(s) of any lot or parcel,
and a clear, brush-free and vegetation-free area not less than ten feet (10')
in width, which area shall be required and maintained between the system and an
property line.
      4.   To the extent the respective requirements of subsections C2 and C3
are inconsistent, the more restrictive requirement of such subsections shall
prevail and control.
      5.   Each ground-mounted solar energy system shall be located on a lot or
parcel so that no portion of the system is visible from any street. Where the
Village Administrator determines that it is necessary to accomplish the
foregoing requirement of this subsection C5, any ground-mounted solar energy
system shall be effectively screened by fencing or landscaping in a manner
approved in advance by the Village Administrator in order that no portion of
said system is visible from any street(s) adjacent to the subject property.
   D.   Size Of Ground-Mounted Solar Energy Systems: Ground-mounted, large-
scale solar energy systems may not exceed thirty (30) acres in size or five (5)
megawatts a/c in capacity. (Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-5-2024)
10-6E-5: MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL OF RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of the property upon which a renewable
energy system is located shall be responsible to maintain said System: (1) in
good repair and proper operating condition, (2) in compliance with this Village
Code, including compliance with all applicable standards to ensure structural
integrity of such facilities, (3) in compliance with (i.e., not exceeding) the
noise level standards set from time to time by the Illinois Pollution Control
Board for noise emissions from Class C land to Class A land and such other
noise regulations as set forth in this Village Code, as amended from time to
time, and (4) in compliance with the conditional use granted by the Village to
authorize such system at all times. If a system becomes inoperable or damaged,
operation of such system must cease and be promptly and properly remedied, or
such system shall be removed.
   B.   If the Village determines that a renewable energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this Village Code, the Village shall
provide written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall
have a period of sixty (60) days from the date of notification to either
restore the renewable energy system to proper operating condition and to a
condition of compliance with the applicable provisions of this Village Code, or
remove the system.
   C.   In the event such renewable energy system is not brought into
compliance with this Village Code within the specified time period, the Village
may, and shall have the authority to remove or to cause the removal of said
system at the property owner's expense and record a lien against the respective
property for the Village's costs incurred relative to removal thereof,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees.
   D.   The Village may pursue any and all available legal remedies to ensure
that a renewable energy system which fails to comply with this Village Code or
which constitutes a danger or a nuisance to persons or property is brought into
compliance or removed.
   E.   Any delay by the Village in taking enforcement action against the owner
of a renewable energy system and the owner of the property upon which such
system is located, if such owner is different from the owner of such system,
shall not constitute any waiver of the Village' s right to take any action
thereon at a later time.
   F.   The Village may seek to have the renewable energy system removed
regardless of the owner' s or operator' s intent to repair or remove said
system, and regardless of any permits that may have been issued or granted
therefor.
   G.   After the renewable energy system is removed, the owner and occupant of
the subject property shall be jointly and severally obligated to promptly
restore the subject property to a condition reasonably consistent with such
property' s condition prior to the installation of said system. (Ord. 2024-02-
02, 2-5-2024)
10-6E-6: PROHIBITED RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Geothermal energy systems shall be prohibited within all Zoning
Districts of the Village as they present a risk to the aquifer which is relied
upon by most of the Village for its potable water supply.
   B.   Large wind energy systems and ground-mounted small wind energy systems
shall be prohibited within all Zoning Districts of the Village as they are
inconsistent with the character and/or the scale of permitted uses within each
of the Village's Zoning Districts. (Ord. 2024-02-02, 2-5-2024)
10-6E-7: STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USE:
Standards For Granting A Certain Conditional Use:
   A.   The proposed renewable energy system shall provide demonstrable
benefits in furthering the intent of this Section and providing renewable
energy to the property on which it is proposed; and
   B.   The proposed renewable energy system is located in such a manner as to
minimize intrusions on adjacent residential uses through siting on the lot,
selection of appropriate equipment, and such other appropriate means; and
   C.   The establishment of the proposed renewable energy system will not
prevent the normal and orderly use, development, or improvement of the adjacent
property for uses permitted in the respective zoning district. (Ord. 2024-02-
02, 2-5-2024)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCESS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Overview Of Processes
10-7-2: Procedures Relative To Conditional Use Permits
10-7-3: Planned Developments
10-7-4: Variations
10-7-5: Appeals
10-7-6: Amendments
10-7-7: Fees For Zoning Relief
10-7-8: Notice Of Public Hearing(s)
10-7-1: OVERVIEW OF PROCESSES:
   A.   The zoning board of appeals of the village shall hold the required
public hearing(s) relative to proposed variation(s), appeal(s), conditional use
permits, and amendments to these zoning regulations (other than relative to
proposed planned developments), except where the proposed conditional use
permit(s), variation(s), and/or the amendment(s) are part of or related to a
request for a planned development.
   B.   The plan commission of the village shall hold the required public
hearing(s) relative to proposed conditional use permit(s) for planned
development(s) and relative to proposed variation(s) and/or proposed amendments
to these zoning regulations which are part of or related to a request for a
proposed conditional use permit for a planned development. (Ord. 2016-11-02,
11-9-2016)
10-7-2: PROCEDURES RELATIVE TO CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: The development and administration of these
zoning regulations is based upon the division of the village into districts
within any one of which the use of land and buildings and the bulk and location
of buildings or structures, as related to the land, are essentially uniform. It
is recognized, however, that there are certain conditional uses which, because
of their unique character, cannot be properly classified in any particular
district or districts without consideration, in each case, of the impact of
those uses upon neighboring lands and upon the public need for the particular
use of the particular location. The following process for consideration of an
application for a conditional use permit (other than for a planned development)
is hereby established to address these unique circumstances and to regulate
these uses to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Authority: The village board of trustees may, following review and
recommendation by the zoning board of appeals, approve or deny by ordinance, or
refer back to the zoning board of appeals for reconsideration or clarification,
development proposals for uses listed as conditional uses within each zoning
district in accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in this
section and other regulations applicable to the district in which the subject
property is located.
   C.   Parties Entitled To Seek A Conditional Use Permit: Parties entitled to
apply for a conditional use permit shall be limited to the property owner,
agent of the property owner, or the contract purchaser of subject property,
acting with the consent of the property owner, or the village, or another unit
of local government.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Application: Applications for a conditional use permit shall be
submitted to the village on a form provided by the zoning official.
      2.   Action By Zoning Official: Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for a conditional use permit, the zoning official shall prepare a
staff report relative thereto and forward a copy of the application and
submittals, together with this report to the zoning board of appeals for
consideration and for the required public hearing thereon.
      3.   Action By Zoning Board Of Appeals:
         a.   The zoning board of appeals shall hold a duly noticed public
hearing on the application for a conditional use permit in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in
the manner prescribed by section 10-7-8 of this chapter.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
zoning board of appeals will forward its written report thereon and/or its
written recommendation of approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval
of the proposed conditional use permit to the village board of trustees.
      4.   Action By Village Board Of Trustees:
         a.   The village board of trustees shall consider an application for a
conditional use permit at a duly called public meeting of such village board
following the receipt and consideration of the written report and/or
recommendation of the zoning board of appeals.
         b.   If the application is approved or approved with modifications,
the board of trustees shall approve the conditional use permit by adoption of
an ordinance granting the requested conditional use, listing any specific
conditions and/or restrictions specified by the board of trustees and/or by the
zoning board of appeals. If the application is disapproved, the zoning official
shall provide the applicant with written notification of the village board's
decision.
   E.   General Standards For Conditional Use Permits: The granting of a
conditional use permit is a matter of legislative discretion that is not
controlled or determined by any one standard. An application for a conditional
use permit generally will not be approved unless the application is determined
to be in conformance with each of the following standards:
      1.   The proposed conditional use permit is, in fact, a conditional use
listed and authorized in the zoning district regulations within which the
property is located.
      2.   The proposed conditional use permit is consistent with the
objectives of the village's comprehensive plan and this chapter.
      3.   The proposed conditional use permit is designed, constructed,
operated, and maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance
with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity.
      4.   The proposed conditional use permit will not significantly diminish
the safety, use and enjoyment of surrounding property.
      5.   The proposed conditional use permit is adequately served by
essential public facilities and services such as streets, police and fire
service, drainage, refuse disposal, water and sewer, and schools, or the
persons or agencies responsible for the establishment of the proposed
conditional use permit shall provide adequately any such services.
      6.   The proposed conditional use permit does not create excessive
additional requirements at public expense for public facilities and services
and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community.
      7.   The proposed conditional use permit does not involve uses,
activities, processes, materials, equipment and conditions of operation that
will be detrimental to any persons, property, or the general welfare by reason
of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
      8.   The proposed conditional use permit provides vehicular access to the
property designed that does not create an interference with traffic on
surrounding public thoroughfares.
      9.   The proposed conditional use permit does not result in the
destruction, loss, or damage of a natural, scenic, or historic feature of major
importance.
      10.   The proposed conditional use permit complies with all additional
regulations in this chapter specific to the conditional use permit requested.
Additionally, the following standards will be given consideration:
      1.   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property.
      2.   The extent to which property values are diminished by the particular
zoning restrictions.
      3.   The extent to which limitation or destruction of property values of
the petitioner promotes the general health, safety, and welfare.
      4.   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed
upon petitioner.
      5.   The suitability of the particular property for the purpose for which
it is now zoned.
      6.   The length of time that the property has been vacant as zoned
considered in the context of land developed in the area in which the property
is located.
      7.   The care with which the community has undertaken to plan its land
use development.
      8.   The evidence or lack of evidence of community need for the use
proposed by the property owner.
   F.   Supplementary Safeguards And Conditions: The zoning board of appeals
may recommend, and the village board of trustees may impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the construction, location and operation of a conditional use
permit as may be deemed necessary to promote the general objective of these
zoning regulations and to minimize any injury to the value of property in the
neighborhood. Such conditions shall be set forth expressly for reference in an
ordinance approved by the board of trustees granting the conditional use
permit, which ordinance shall run with title to the land and be recorded with
the Lake County, Illinois, recorder of deeds by the village as a supplement to
the deed for the subject property. The failure of the applicant, property
owner, and/or its respective heirs, successors, and/or assigns to maintain
timely and continued compliance with such conditions or restrictions as may
have been imposed by village ordinance shall constitute grounds for the
village's revocation of such conditional use permit.
   G.   No Presumption Of Approval: The listing of conditional use permits
authorized within each zoning district does not constitute an assurance or
presumption that such conditional uses will be approved by the village. Rather,
each proposed conditional use permit shall be evaluated by the village on an
individual basis, in relation to its compliance with the standards and
conditions set forth in this section, and with the standards for the zoning
district in which such conditional use is proposed to be located, in order to
determine whether approval of the conditional use permit is appropriate at the
particular location and in the particular manner proposed.
   H.   Limitation On Conditional Uses:
      1.   A conditional use permit shall automatically become null and void
unless a building permit therefor is issued by the village and construction
thereon has commenced within one year of issuance of the required building
permit and construction and/or implementation thereof is thereafter diligently
pursued to completion. However, the village board of trustees, at its
discretion, may extend the aforesaid one year period for good cause shown to a
mutually agreed upon time.
      2.   A conditional use permit authorizes the establishment and operation
of the conditional use only on the property represented in the application
therefor and is not transferable to other properties.
   I.   Effect Of Approval: The approval of a conditional use permit
application by the village board of trustees shall not authorize the
development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building
or structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing
of applications for such permits or approvals as may be required by the
regulations of the village including, but not limited to, a zoning certificate
and a building permit. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-7-3: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Planned developments are a type of conditional use, but applications for same
will be considered by the village in accordance with chapter 9 of this title.
(Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-7-4: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: A process for the village's consideration of
a request for variation(s) is hereby established to provide a means by which a
property owner or other interested party may request and may be granted relief
from the application of certain provisions of these zoning regulations that
create practical difficulties or particular hardships relative to a particular
property. When considering a request for relief from such practical
difficulties or particular hardships relative to a specific property, the
village may determine that, in some cases, there may be a more appropriate
remedy for the requested relief provided for in this chapter, rather than
approval of a variation.
   B.   Authority: In accordance with the procedures and standards set out in
this section, the village board of trustees, following the recommendation of
the zoning board of appeals, shall have the authority to grant variations from
the provisions of the village's zoning regulations, but only in accordance with
each of the standards enumerated in this section.
   C.   Parties Entitled To Seek Variations: An application for a variation may
be filed by the property owner, agent of the property owner, or the contract
purchaser of the subject property, with the consent of the property owner.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   Application: Applications for a variation shall be submitted to the
village on a form provided by the zoning official.
      2.   Action By Zoning Official: Upon receipt of a properly completed
application for a variation, the zoning official shall review the application
and forward a copy of the application and submittals, together with a staff
report relative thereto, to the zoning board of appeals for consideration and
for the required public hearing thereon.
      3.   Action By Zoning Board Of Appeals:
         a.   The zoning board of appeals shall hold a duly noticed public
hearing on the application in accordance with the requirements of this chapter,
and notice for the public hearing shall be given in the manner prescribed by
section 10-7-8 of this chapter.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
zoning board of appeals will forward its written report thereon and/or its
written recommendation of approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval
of the proposed variation to the village board of trustees.
      4.   Action By Village Board Of Trustees:
         a.   The village board of trustees shall consider an application for a
variation at a duly called public meeting of such village board following the
receipt and consideration of the written report and/or recommendation of the
zoning board of appeals.
         b.   If the application for a variation is approved or approved with
modifications, the board of trustees shall approve the variation by ordinance,
listing any specific conditions and/or restrictions specified by the zoning
board of appeals and/or by the board of trustees. If the application for a
variation is disapproved, the zoning official shall provide the applicant with
written notification of the village board's decision.
   E.   Findings Of Fact For Variations: A variation from the provisions of
these zoning regulations shall not be granted unless the zoning board of
appeals and/or the village board, as the case may be, makes specific written
findings of fact directly based on the standards and conditions imposed by this
section and any conditions imposed by the reviewing authority.
      1.   Practical Difficulty: No variation shall be granted unless the
applicant shall establish that carrying out the strict letter of the provisions
of these zoning regulations would create a particular hardship or a practical
difficulty.
      2.   Unique Physical Condition: The subject property is exceptional as
compared to other properties subject to the same provision by reason of a
unique physical condition, including presence of an existing use, structure, or
sign, whether conforming or nonconforming, irregular or substandard shape or
size, exceptional topographical features, or other extraordinary physical
conditions peculiar to, and inherent in, the subject property that amount to
more than a mere inconvenience to the owner and that relate to or arise out of
the property rather than the personal situation of the current owner of the
property.
      3.   Not Self-Created: The aforesaid unique physical condition is not the
result of any action or inaction of the owner and existed at the time of the
enactment of the provisions from which a variation is sought or was created by
natural forces or was the result of governmental action, other than the
adoption of these zoning regulations.
      4.   Denied Substantial Rights: The carrying out of the strict letter of
the provision from which a variation is sought would deprive the owner of the
subject property of substantial rights commonly enjoyed by owners of other
properties subject to the same provision.
      5.   Not Merely Special Privilege: The alleged hardship or difficulty is
neither merely the inability of the owner or occupant to enjoy some special
privilege or additional right not available to owners or occupants of other
lots subject to the same provision, nor merely the inability of the owner to
make more money from the use of the subject property.
      6.   Ordinance And Plan Purposes: The variation would not result in a use
or development of the subject property that would not be in harmony with the
general and specific purposes for which this chapter, and the provision from
which a variation is sought, were enacted or the general purpose and intent of
the comprehensive plan.
      7.   No Other Remedy: There is no means other than the requested
variation by which the alleged hardship or practical difficulty can be avoided
or remedied to a degree sufficient to permit a reasonable use of the subject
property.
      8.   Minimum Required: The requested variation is the minimum measure of
relief necessary to alleviate the alleged hardship or practical difficulty
presented by the strict application of this chapter.
      9.   Other Required Findings: In considering all proposed variations from
the zoning regulations, the zoning board of appeals and/or the board of
trustees, as the case may be, will also, before recommending the approval of or
granting any variation from the provisions of these zoning regulations in a
specific case, determine and make findings of fact that the following
conditions have been met:
         a.   The variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and air
to adjacent property.
         b.   The variation will not unreasonably increase the congestion in
public streets.
         c.   The variation will not increase the danger of fire or endanger
the public safety.
         d.   The variation will not unreasonably diminish or impair
established property values within the surrounding area, or in any other
respect impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village.
         e.   The variation will not permit a use otherwise excluded from the
particular zone in which requested.
         f.   Special circumstances or conditions such as exceptional
narrowness, topography or siting, fully described in the report of the zoning
board, apply to the land for which the variation is sought, and that those
conditions do not apply generally in the applicable zoning district.
         g.   The special circumstances or conditions of the variation have not
resulted from any act of the applicant subsequent to the adoption of these
zoning regulations, whether or not in violation of the provisions thereof.
   F.   Variation(s) Less Than Requested: The zoning board of appeals may
recommend, and the village board of trustees may grant, variation(s) less than,
or different from, that requested when the record supports the applicant's
right to some relief but not to the entire relief requested.
   G.   Conditions On Variation(s): The zoning board of appeals may recommend
and the board of trustees may impose such specific conditions and limitations
concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening, and
other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of these zoning
regulations upon any lot benefited by a variation as may be necessary or
appropriate to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other property and
improvements in the vicinity of the subject lot or upon public facilities and
services. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the ordinance passed
by the board of trustees granting the variation. Violation of any such
condition and/or limitation shall be a violation of these zoning regulations
and of the ordinance granting the variation and shall constitute grounds for
the revocation or suspension of the variation.
   H.   Effect Of Grant Of A Variation: The grant of a variation shall not
authorize the establishment or extension of any use nor the development,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any building or
structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing, and processing
of applications for any permits and approvals that may be required by these
zoning regulations or other ordinances of the village.
   I.   Limitations On Variations:
      1.   Automatic Expiration: An approved variation shall automatically
expire unless a building permit is issued and construction on the property
which is the subject of the approved variation has commenced within one year of
issuance of the building permit therefor. However, the board of trustees may
extend the one year period to a mutually agreed upon time.
      2.   Project Scope: A variation shall be deemed to authorize only the
particular project for which it was issued and shall automatically be suspended
or revoked and cease to be of any force or effect if such construction or
development of the project is beyond the scope authorized by the approved
variation.
      3.   Hearing Required: No variation shall be granted by the board of
trustees in any specific case without first having held a duly noticed hearing
before the zoning board of appeals as required herein or without a report and/
or recommendation from the zoning board relative thereto having been submitted
to the board of trustees.
      4.   Decision: Upon receipt of the report and/or recommendation of the
zoning board of appeals and without further public hearing, the board of
trustees, at a duly called public meeting, may approve or deny by ordinance any
proposed variation or may refer the report back to the zoning board for further
consideration. Any proposed variation which fails to receive approval of four
(4) members of the zoning board shall not be passed except by the favorable
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the trustees of the village.
      5.   One Year Limitation:
         a.   No variation permitting the construction or alteration of a
building shall be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building
permit for such construction or alteration is issued by the village and
construction thereon is commenced and diligently proceeds to completion in
accordance with the terms of such permit.
         b.   No variation permitting a use of a building or premises shall be
valid for a period of longer than one year, unless such use is established
within such one year period; provided, however, that where such use is
dependent upon the construction or alteration of a building, such variation
shall continue in full force and effect if a building permit for said
construction or alteration is obtained within such one year period and work
thereon is commenced and diligently proceeds to completion in accordance with
the terms of such permit.
      6.   Powers: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant
to the zoning board the power or authority to alter or change these zoning
regulations or any use district made a part of the zoning map, or to grant
variations, such power and authority being reserved to the village board of
trustees, and the zoning board of appeals shall not have any power or authority
with respect to any alterations or change of these zoning regulations except to
make recommendations to the board of trustees in such specific cases as may
properly come before the zoning board. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-7-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: The process of appeals of the decisions of
the zoning official or of the building inspector is hereby established to
provide appropriate checks and balances on administrative authority.
   B.   Authority: The zoning board of appeals shall hear and make final
decisions on applications for appeals of administrative decisions made by the
zoning official or by the building inspector.
   C.   Application: Applications for an appeal shall be filed on forms
provided by the zoning official. Submission materials shall conform to the
requirements of such application and Illinois statutes. A copy of the
application for appeal and all supporting submission materials shall be
forwarded to both the zoning official and to the zoning board of appeals for
review.
   D.   Decisions On Appeals: The zoning board of appeals shall hear and make a
final decision on an appeal of administrative decisions made by the zoning
official or by the building inspector at its next available, regularly
scheduled meeting. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the zoning board
of appeals shall be necessary either to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the zoning official or of the building inspector
or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is authorized
by this chapter to render decisions.
   E.   Limitations On Appeals: An application for appeal of a decision by the
zoning official or by the building inspector must be filed not later than forty
five (45) days after the decision being appealed has been rendered. (Ord. 2016-
11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-7-6: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: The process of amending both the zoning map
and the text of these zoning regulations, is hereby established, the purpose of
which process is to amend these zoning regulations and make adjustments to the
village's zoning map in response to changed conditions or changes in village
policy. Amendments are not intended to relieve particular hardships or confer
special privileges or rights upon any person or party.
   B.   Authority And Execution: The board of trustees, after receiving a
report and/or recommendation by the zoning board of appeals or by the plan
commission, as the case may be, shall take formal action on requests for
amendments.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   Application: Applications for amendments shall be submitted to the
village on forms provided by the zoning official.
      2.   Action By Zoning Official: Upon receipt of a properly completed
application, the zoning official shall review the application and forward a
copy of the completed application and any submittals relative thereto, together
with a staff report to the plan commission or to the zoning board of appeals,
as the case may be, as provided by section 10-7-1 of this chapter for
consideration and for the required public hearing thereon.
      3.   Action By Plan Commission Or Zoning Board Of Appeals:
         a.   The plan commission and/or zoning board of appeals shall hold a
public hearing on the application in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, and notice for the public hearing shall be given in the manner
prescribed by section 10-7-8 of this chapter.
         b.   Within thirty (30) days of the close of the public hearing, the
plan commission or the zoning board of appeals shall forward its written report
and/or recommendation of approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval
to the village board of trustees.
      4.   Action By Village Board Of Trustees:
         a.   The village board of trustees shall consider the application for
amendments to these zoning regulations and/or the village's zoning map at a
duly called public meeting. For requests for text amendments, the action taken
by the board of trustees may take the form of denial, approval, or approval
with modifications. For requests for map amendments, the action taken by the
board of trustees may take the form of denial, approval, or approval with
modifications.
         b.   In the case of denials, the board of trustees shall instruct the
zoning official to prepare a letter of denial to formally communicate the
formal action to the petitioner. In the case of approval or approval with
modifications, the board of trustees shall approve an ordinance to amend these
zoning regulations and/or the village's zoning map accordingly.
   D.   Standards: Approval by the board of trustees of any amendment, whether
to the text of these zoning regulations or to the village's official zoning
map, which is part thereof, is a matter of legislative discretion that is not
controlled or determined by any one standard. However, in making its decision,
the board of trustees may consider the following factors:
      1.   Comprehensive Plan: The extent to which the proposed amendment is
consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the village's
comprehensive plan (text and map amendments).
      2.   Surrounding Area: The extent to which the proposed amendment fosters
harmony and consistency of character in the surrounding area (map amendments).
      3.   Adjacent Properties: The extent to which the proposed amendment
adversely impacts adjacent properties (map amendments).
      4.   Future Development: The potential effect of the proposed amendment
on the character of future development if applied generally to other uses in
the zoning district or within the village as a whole (text amendments).
      5.   Nonconformities: The extent to which the proposed amendment creates
nonconformities (text amendments).
      6.   Public Facilities And Services: The adequacy of public facilities
and services to serve the subject property including, but not limited to,
streets, utilities, parks, and police and fire service (map amendments).
      7.   Zoning Regulations: The extent to which the proposed text amendment
is consistent with the overall structure and organization of these zoning
regulations.
      8.   Retail Sales Tax: The extent to which the proposed text and/or
zoning map amendment, if found to be consistent with the goals, objectives and
policies of the village's comprehensive plan, will also further the village's
specific goal of maintaining and/or increasing the retail sales tax base of the
village.
      9.   Standards For Amendment(s): A proposed amendment shall be considered
on its own merits using the following criteria as a guide:
         a.   Text And/Or Map Amendment: The following conditions shall be met
for all amendments:
            (1)   The proposed amendment shall correct an error or meet the
challenge of some changing condition in the area and the zones affected;
            (2)   The proposed amendment shall be consistent with the intent of
this zoning ordinance and with its various provisions;
            (3)   The proposed amendment shall not be detrimental to the
development of the village;
            (4)   The proposed amendments meet the challenge of changing
conditions in the area and the zoning districts affected;
            (5)   The proposed amendments are consistent with the intent of the
zoning ordinance and with its various provisions;
            (6)   The proposed amendments will not be detrimental to the
development of the village; and
            (7)   The proposed amendments are consistent with the village's
official comprehensive plan and the official land use map which is part
thereof.
         b.   Map Amendment: In addition to the above conditions, the following
shall be met for all map changes:
            (1)   Every use permitted under the new classification must be a
suitable use for the further development of the area in the vicinity of the
rezoning, and must be compatible with uses already developed in the vicinity;
and
            (2)   Adequate public facilities, sewer and water lines and other
needed services or facilities must exist or must be capable of being provided
prior to the development of the uses which would be permitted on the property
if it were reclassified.
   E.   Parties Entitled To Seek Amendments: Parties entitled to apply for
amendments shall be limited to the property owner, agent of the property owner,
or the contract purchaser of the subject property, acting with the consent of
the property owner, or the village, or any other unit of local government.
(Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-7-7: FEES FOR ZONING RELIEF:
All petitioners are required to pay and shall submit to the village with each
application for zoning relief all applicable fees which shall be collected by
the zoning officer, or his designee, who shall provide a written account for
them to the village board.
   A.   Fees Payable: Any person or entity submitting a request or application
for any conditional use permit, variation, appeal, or for any zoning map
amendment (rezoning) or text amendment(s) pursuant to the Lake Villa zoning
regulations shall pay the non-refundable fees as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code upon submitting said request or application.
      2.   Fees For Parcel(s) Exceeding Five Acres: Where the change(s)
requested involves parcel(s) equaling or exceeding five (5) acres in size, the
non- refundable fees to be paid at the time of submission of an application for
zoning relief shall be a percentage of those amounts as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      3.   Fees For An Application For A Conditional Use Permit, Including
Planned Developments: The non-refundable fee(s) for application for a
Conditional Use Permit which includes a Planned Development shall be as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      4.   Request For Variation: Where the request is for a variation from
these zoning regulations, the non-refundable fees for the review of a request
for variation shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. Where a republication of a legal notice is
required relative to the petitioner's request, an additional non-refundable fee
as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be charged and the petitioner shall also be
required to reimburse the village for the actual cost of publication of the
related legal notice incurred by the village for such republication. The non-
refundable fee to be paid for an appeal from a decision by the zoning official
or by the building inspector shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The issuance of use permits and the issuance of
certificates of zoning compliance shall each call for a payment of a non-
refundable fee as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. A petition seeking a rehearing on a petition,
which has been rejected by action of the zoning board of appeals and/or the
village board within six (6) months from the date of rejection, shall require
the petitioner's payment of a non-refundable fee to be paid to the village
engineer as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      5.   Request for Text Amendment: The non-refundable fee for a request for
a text amendment shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. If the request is coupled with a request for
rezoning and/or a conditional or special use (i.e., an amendment to the
village's zoning map), only one non-refundable fee as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be charged for both requests, which non-
refundable fee shall be as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, or the non-refundable fee as specified from time
to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for the other request, whichever sum is greater.
      6.   Annexations: Fees for annexations shall be as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      7.   Additional Fees: Additional fees for any zoning relief, including,
but not limited to, zoning text amendments, conditional use permits,
variations, appeals and for petitions for annexation, may be established by
resolution or ordinance approved by the village treasurer from time to time as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
10-7-8: NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING(S):
   A.   Hearing Notice To Be Published: The board of trustees shall have the
authority to determine and approve zoning text amendments, zoning map
amendments, variations, and conditional use permits which authority shall be
exercised only by the adoption of an ordinance relative thereto by the board of
trustees. Zoning map amendments, zoning text amendments, variations, and
conditional use permits shall be granted by the village board and shall be
specific to a property and then only after a public hearing before the zoning
board of appeals or before the plan commission, as the case may be, as provided
by section 10-7-1 of this chapter. Neither the zoning board nor the plan
commission shall make any recommendation relative to any variation, conditional
use permit, any zoning map amendment, or zoning text amendment except after
either body has conducted a public hearing thereon. A notice of the time and
place of such public hearing shall be published at least once, not more than
thirty (30) days, nor less than fifteen (15) days, prior to the date of the
hearing in a newspaper circulated in the village or, if no newspaper is
circulated therein, then in one or more newspapers of general circulation
within the village. Such notice shall also contain the address or location of
the property for which the zoning map amendment, variation, and/or conditional
use permit is sought, as well as a brief description of the nature of the
request.
   B.   Hearing Notice To Be Mailed: The petitioner(s) for any zoning variation
(s), and/or any conditional use permit(s), including any conditional use for a
planned development, shall file with the village clerk an affidavit identifying
the owners of all property, whether under the jurisdiction of a municipality or
within an unincorporated area, within five hundred feet (500') in each
direction from all points on the perimeter of the property which is the subject
of their petition (and the respective permanent index numbers of such
properties), and said affidavit shall in any event include at least the six (6)
nearest property owners (and the respective permanent index numbers of such
properties) within the village; provided, however, that for the purpose of this
subsection, ownership may be determined on the basis of the last available tax
records of the county. The petitioner(s) shall also provide to the village
clerk, along with the required affidavit, prestamped envelopes (without any
return address) addressed to each owner listed on such affidavit and, in
addition, the petitioner(s) shall also provide two (2) copies of all of the tax
map(s) covering all permanent index numbers listed on such affidavit in the
same scale as maintained by the Lake County clerk's map department. The village
clerk will send written notice by U.S. mail, at the petitioner's expense, not
less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the public hearing
thereon, to those persons identified in said affidavit.
   C.   Hearing Notification Signs To Be Posted:
      1.   Signs To Be Posted: In addition to any other notice that may be
required by this section, for any zoning map amendment, variation(s), and/or
any conditional use permit, the village will be responsible for causing signs
to be prepared and posted on the subject property informing the general public
of the date of the initial public hearing thereon. The required sign(s) shall
be provided by the village clerk for this purpose, and the cost of such signage
and the posting thereof will be at the petitioner's sole cost and expense.
      2.   Content Of Each Sign: Each sign shall contain the following
information with all required lettering a minimum of two inches (2") in height:
A PUBLIC HEARING IS SCHEDULED TO BE HEARD BY THE VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA [ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS AND/OR BY THE VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA PLAN COMMISSION]
CONCERNING THIS PROPERTY AT THE VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA VILLAGE HALL, 65 CEDAR
AVENUE, LAKE VILLA, ILLINOIS AT 7:00 P.M. ON [INSERT DATE]. FOR MORE
INFORMATION, CALL (847) 356-6100
      3.   Size: Each sign shall have at least one display surface which shall
have a minimum dimension of four feet (4') in height and four feet (4') in
width.
      4.   Placement Of Signs: One public hearing notification sign shall be
posted on the subject property at a location oriented to and readable from the
nearest adjacent roadway. However, additional signs shall be required where a
parcel abuts two (2) or more roadways, and in such cases, one such sign shall
be oriented to and shall be readable from each abutting roadway. Such signs
must be constructed of materials which will withstand existing area weather
conditions.
      5.   Duration; Removal: Public hearing notification signs must be posted
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the initial date of the scheduled
public hearing on the petition or application, and may not be removed by the
village or by the petitioner(s) until after the initial date of the scheduled
public hearing on the petition or application.
      6.   Reimbursement: Prior to the initial date of the scheduled public
hearing on the petition or application, the petitioner(s) shall reimburse the
village for the actual out of pocket expenses incurred or to be incurred by the
village for the fabrication, erection, and removal of the sign or signs
required by this section. The petitioner(s) shall also post a two hundred
dollar ($200.00) bond per sign with the village for use of the required signs.
Said bond shall be refunded to the petitioner upon return of the sign within
ten (10) days following the conclusion of the hearing for which the sign was
posted. In the event that the sign is not returned to the village within ten
(10) days of the completion of the scheduled hearing for which the sign was
posted, the two hundred dollar ($200.00) bond shall be forfeited with the fee
applying to the cost of replacement of such sign.
      7.   Rules: The village clerk is authorized and empowered to establish
such reasonable rules and regulations governing the posting of notification
signs not inconsistent with the provisions of this section to carry out the
intent of this section to provide notice of proposed hearings which rules may
be necessary due to unique characteristics of the subject property or
application.
      8.   Failure To Comply: Any failure to comply with the notice provisions
of subsection B of this section and/or this subsection C shall not invalidate
any action taken by the zoning board of appeals, the plan commission, or by the
board of trustees on any such petition or application. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-
2016)
CHAPTER 8
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Site Capacity Calculation
10-8-2: Resource Protection Open Space Standards
10-8-3: Additional Environmental Standards
10-8-1: SITE CAPACITY CALCULATION:
Each property proposed for development shall, at the time of rezoning, site
plan approval or subdivision, submit a site capacity analysis based on the
physical conditions, hazards and natural resources present on the site.
   A.   Purpose: There are areas where it is hazardous to life and property to
construct a building, and these areas should be avoided. The destruction of
some resources and certain development practices lead to ground and surface
water pollution. Other development practices lead to air pollution. Natural
systems are self-balancing, provided enough of the system is left in a
functioning condition. This section ensures that the development will respect
these resources; it prevents development from occurring in areas where it
should not. In addition to health and safety concerns, resources provide
habitat and help establish the character of Lake Villa. Their preservation
enhances property values and the quality of life for residents and businesses.
   B.   Applicability: All development in all districts shall conduct a site
capacity analysis except for the following:
      1.   Any lot of record as of April 14, 1988, proposed for residential
use, which cannot be further subdivided or which is buildable after floodplains
or wetlands are taken into account, but would not be buildable after other
resource standards are applied.
      2.   Any lot of record as of April 14, 1988, proposed for a
nonresidential use which is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet in
area and is buildable after floodplains or wetlands are taken into account, but
would not be buildable after other resource standards are applied.
      3.   Individual lots in subdivisions or land developments approved
subject to the provisions of this title, since protection is achieved in the
subdivision approval process. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2017-02-
02, 2-8-2017)
   C.   Impervious Surface Ratio:
SITE CAPACITY IMPERVIOUS SURFACE RATIO PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL LOT AREA
 Zone Lot Size (Square Feet) Percentage
                       Zone                 Lot Size (Square Feet)   Percentage
                       AG                   200,000                  10%
                       SR                   40,000                   30%
                       UR1                  20,000                   30%
                       UR2                  15,000                   30%
                       UR3                  13,490                   40%
Single-family dwelling UR3                  12,070                   40%
                       UR3                  10,650                   40%
                       UR3A                 10,200                   40%
                       UR3A                 9,300                    45%
                       UR3A                 8,000                    50%
                       UR4                  13,500                   50%
                       NC                   10,650                   40%
Two-family dwelling    UR4                  13,500                   50%
                       UR4                  8,500                    40%
Townhouse/apartment                        13,500                   40%
                                           16,500                   40%
                       Each additional unit 3,000                    40%
                       CR                   20,000 with community    30%
                                            sewer
                                           40,000 without community 30%
                                            sewer
                                           40,000 any other         30%
                                            permitted use
                       SB                   40,000                   90%
Commercial/industrial  CB                   10,000 with community    70%
                                            sewer
                                           20,000 without community 70%
                                            sewer
                       CBD                  -                        -
                       Heritage area        -                        -
                       LI                   40,000                   90%
                       LI-2                 20,000                   90%
                       RD                   10,000                   90%
 
(Ord. 2014-07-01, 7-9-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-8-2: RESOURCE PROTECTION OPEN SPACE STANDARDS:
All natural resources are protected by requiring that a minimum amount of the
resource be preserved as open space. The resource protection open space shall
be part of the open space ratio in residential developments and part of the
landscape surface ratio in nonresidential developments. The open space shall
remain undisturbed. Open space protection levels are specified in table IV-C of
this section and must be met within any development. Additional protection
standards are contained in section 10-8-3 of this chapter.
TABLE IV-C
RESOURCE PROTECTION LEVELS
Natural Resource Resource Protection Open Space Ratio
Natural Resource                 Resource Protection Open Space Ratio
Water bodies                     1.00
Floodplains                      1.00
Wetlands                         1.00
Drainageways                     0.40
Water bodies and wetland buffers 0.80
Steep slopes (30%+)              0.85
Forests:                          
Mature                           0.70
Young                            0.40
 
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-2017)
10-8-3: ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS:
In addition to the open space requirements, the standards and mitigation
requirements in this section apply to those resources indicated:
   A.   Water Bodies: Only shoreline protection and piers or other structures
approved as water dependent uses shall be permitted in water bodies provided
they meet the requirements of this section.
      1.   Shoreline Protection: This use shall be permitted subject to the
following standards being met:
         a.   A corps of engineers permit shall be required.
         b.   In all cases, the shoreline protection technique permitted shall
be in the following order of preference. A technique lower on the order of
preference shall not be used unless it is demonstrated that a higher order will
not work at the location or is not cost effective.
            (1)   Emergent and shoreline vegetation.
            (2)   Emergent and shoreline vegetation with submerged or
semisubmerged stabilizing rock to permit the establishment of the vegetation.
            (3)   Spot armoring to protect lower areas.
            (4)   Other armoring or groins shall be required to submit
environmental impact reports to prove that the structure is the least
destructive design in light of its impact on the transport of materials by the
waves or currents and effect on other portions of the shoreline.
      2.   Need: A determination of need shall demonstrate the following:
         a.   That the property is threatened with erosion damage, and
         b.   The fill is the minimum needed to stabilize the shoreline and
will not add usable land to the site, increase the intensity of use, or permit
a building to be closer to the existing shoreline.
      3.   Water Dependent Uses: All other structures shall be water dependent
uses and shall conform to the following standards:
         a.   The water dependent use is one that cannot function without
direct contact with water. Piers, launching ramps and beaches meet this
definition.
         b.   No accessory structures shall be permitted that can be located on
the land.
   B.   Floodplains: Certain water dependent uses must be located in
floodplains, and occasionally other uses may be permitted. These may be
permitted provided all structures meet the following requirements:
      1.   General:
         a.   Only structures which are essential to the water dependent use
shall be permitted as of right. Roads and utility crossings shall be permitted
only where essential.
         b.   The structure shall not be designed for human habitation.
         c.   Any space occupied for the function of the use shall have its
floor at least two feet (2') above the flood elevation. All service and utility
connections such as water, sewer, electric, or gas, and electrical and heating
equipment within the building, shall be similarly located.
      2.   Structures In Riverine Floodplains:
         a.   Except for road and utility crossings, no structure shall intrude
into the floodway.
         b.   The structures are constructed and placed on the building site so
as to cause an increase of less than one one-hundredth foot (0.01') in flood
height off site and offer minimum obstruction to the flow of floodwaters.
Floodways should have sufficient clearance between flood elevation and any
horizontal structural members to avoid debris jambs.
         c.   The structures are firmly anchored to prevent them from floating
away or collapsing. They shall be certified by an engineer to withstand
velocities and likely debris loadings at that point in the floodplain.
      3.   Structures In Lake Floodplains: The structures are strongly
constructed and firmly anchored to prevent them from collapsing under the force
of waves or ice. They shall be certified by an engineer to withstand wave and
ice actions likely at that location.
      4.   Fills In Riverine Floodplains: Fills or deposition of materials may
be allowed by conditional use permit, provided that:
         a.   No fill shall be in the floodway or within twenty feet (20') of
it.
         b.   The fill or other materials will be protected against erosion by
riprap, vegetative cover, sheet piling, or bulkheading sufficient to prevent
erosion.
         c.   The fill shall be clean fill that is compacted to minimize
erosion potential.
         d.   The fill shall be compensated for so that there is no loss in the
cross sectional area of the floodplain and no increase in flood height of more
than one one-hundredth foot (0.01') off site.
      5.   Fills In Water Bodies: Fill in a water body shall be permitted only
as a conditional use and only for piers and erosion control structures. The
fill volumes shall be the minimum needed to achieve those functions and shall
not be used to extend the land area.
   C.   Wetlands: There are only limited uses of wetlands, and structures such
as boardwalks are the only acceptable means of providing access to these areas.
There are cases where protection is not a reasonable alternative and where
mitigation is an acceptable solution. The following regulations apply to the
mitigation of wetland areas to be filled or severely disturbed. In all cases,
the mitigation shall be permitted by the U.S. corps of engineers.
      1.   Mitigation Permitted, Small Depressional Wetlands: Mitigation is
permitted only under the following situations:
         a.   Depressional wetlands of less than one-fourth (0.25) acre may be
mitigated.
         b.   All such areas shall be added to the amount of drainageways on
the site and be protected under that standard.
         c.   Mitigation shall be at a ratio of one to one (1:1).
      2.   Mitigation Permitted, Advance Identification (ADID) Wetlands:
Mitigation shall be permitted only for:
         a.   Road and utility crossings where alternatives would be
substantially inferior in protecting the health and safety of residents; or
         b.   For structures that will better maintain the hydrology of the
wetlands or provide a net gain in wetlands.
         c.   Mitigation shall be at a ratio of three to one (3:1).
      3.   Mitigation Permitted, Other Depressional Wetlands: Mitigation shall
be permitted as follows:
         a.   In the SB, CB, LI and LI-2 districts, the intensity of use is so
high that retained wetlands of less than two (2) acres will be degraded
habitats and isolated wetlands may serve no significant stormwater benefit.
Filling shall be permitted where:
            (1)   Mitigation shall be at a ratio of one and one-half to one
(1.5:1).
            (2)   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the wetland is
designated as high quality.
         b.   In all other districts, filling involving reconfiguration of the
wetlands shall be permitted where:
            (1)   It can be demonstrated that the wetlands are so located that
the developer would not be able to get the permitted number of lots by
modifying the plan to avoid the wetlands; or
            (2)   Where the filling is needed to permit road crossings or
drainage control structures.
            (3)   The mitigation shall be at a ratio of one and one-fourth to
one (1.25:1).
      4.   Mitigation Permitted, Shore Wetlands: A water dependent use,
permitted only as a conditional use when it cannot be located elsewhere on the
site, shall be permitted to mitigate at a ratio of two to one (2:1).
   D.   Drainageways: In addition to the open space protection, the total
length of the drainageway area shall be kept open to provide a continuous
drainage corridor, except where the drainageway is an isolated depressional
area not linked to swales or streams. Positive surface drainage in these areas
shall be preserved. The protected area may be regraded and reshaped to provide
for stormwater detention and drainage. The following standards shall apply:
      1.   The drainageways shall be used as a natural positive surface
drainage system. Where filling is done, it shall not make the drainageway
discontinuous. Culverts shall be installed at all road crossings to permit the
water to drain.
      2.   The areas shall be restored to a natural state using seed mixes
approved and specified on the village planner's lists.
      3.   In the design of detention or surface drainage systems in
drainageways, the following standards shall govern their design:
         a.   The drainage shall be designed to slow the time of concentration
on the site and retain maximum infiltration into the ground.
         b.   Where flows permit, the channels shall be designed as grassed
swales, wetlands, or mesic grasslands encouraging sheet flow, except in
forests.
         c.   In forests, narrow winding channels shall be used to reduce
velocity and avoid trees.
         d.   All wet basin retention ponds shall be designed to have natural
edges using approved plant materials from the village planner's list.
   E.   Water Body And Wetland Buffers:
      1.   Calculation Of Natural Resource Area: Water body and wetland buffers
shall extend from the edge of the delineated wetland or protected water body. A
property may contain a buffer that originates from water bodies or wetlands on
adjacent property. The natural resource protection area shall be calculated in
the following manner:
         a.   For wetlands or water bodies with a total surface area of one-
third (1/3) acre or greater but less than one acre, a minimum buffer width of
thirty feet (30') shall be required.
         b.   For wetlands or water bodies with a total surface area of one
acre or greater, but less than two and one-half (21/2) acres, a minimum buffer
width of forty feet (40') shall be required.
         c.   For wetlands or water bodies with a total surface area of two and
one-half (21/2) acres or greater, a minimum buffer width of fifty feet (50')
shall be required.
         d.   High quality aquatic resources shall have a minimum buffer width
of one hundred feet (100').
      2.   Protection Ratio: A minimum of eighty percent (80%) of all required
buffer areas shall be protected and maintained as permanent open space unless
otherwise expressly provided in this title.
      3.   Buffer Averaging: The required buffer width for a development site
may be varied to a minimum of one-half (1/2) of the buffer width required, upon
approval of the planning commission, provided that the total buffer area
required is achieved adjacent to the water body or wetland being buffered. The
consultation process of the Illinois department of natural resources or U.S.
fish and wildlife service may override the ability to average buffer areas upon
approval of the planning commission.
      4.   Protected Areas:
         a.   Areas having state or federal threatened and endangered species
present or for Illinois natural area inventory sites, buffer widths may be
modified upon approval of the planning commission to meet the terms and
conditions specified during consultation with the Illinois department of
natural resources or U.S. fish and wildlife service pursuant to state and
federal laws and regulations. However, any additional buffer required pursuant
to this provision, shall not affect the site capacity calculation. The planning
commission shall support efforts to protect threatened and endangered species
whenever such efforts are consistent with the stated purposes of this title.
         b.   Areas located within one hundred feet (100') from the edge of the
delineated wetlands or water body with slopes exceeding twelve percent (12%)
grade shall also be protected and maintained as permanent open space unless
otherwise expressly provided in this title. The planning commission shall be
authorized to allow improvements such as retaining walls to prevent soil
erosion and protect public safety within protected steep slope areas. Any
additional buffer required pursuant to this provision, shall not affect the
site capacity calculation.
         c.   All existing native vegetation within protected buffer areas
shall be left undisturbed. Protected buffer areas may be regraded if the
planning commission determines that the regrading is necessary to stabilize the
area, prevent soil erosion or otherwise protect or enhance the protected buffer
area. The protected buffer area may also be regraded to allow stormwater
basins. Access through protected buffer areas shall be provided, when
necessary, for maintenance purposes. The protected buffer areas shall be
restabilized and revegetated with native vegetation immediately after any
disturbance or modification. All runoff will be directed to enter protected
buffer areas as unconcentrated flow or will be treated to remove all silt and
sediment prior to entering the adjacent wetland. In those very limited and
unique circumstances when no other reasonable alternative exists, the planning
commission shall be authorized to allow direct runoff into the adjacent
wetland.
      5.   Nonprotected Areas: Buffer areas that are not protected (the
remaining 20 percent) may be developed with structures and impervious surfaces
including trails and paths.
   F.   Steep Slopes:
      1.   Determination And Delineation: Steep slopes are areas of one- fourth
(0.25) acre or more where the inclination of the land's surface from the
horizontal is thirty percent (30%) or greater and where the vertical rise is at
least ten feet (10').
      2.   Open Space Ratio: Steep slope areas are protected by an open space
ratio of 0.85. That is, at least eighty five percent (85%) of all steep slope
areas shall be designated and be maintained as permanent open space. The
remaining fifteen percent (15%) of all such areas may be developed, regraded or
stripped of vegetation.
      3.   Resource Protection Measures: Steep slope areas requiring protection
which lie wholly or partially on site and are within fifty feet (50') of the
identified limits of proposed site development activity shall be appropriately
marked and fenced to prevent the clearing or stripping of vegetation, the
regrading or stockpiling of soil, or the erosion of the ground cover or soil of
such protection areas. Such marking or fencing shall be erected at the
identified limits of any steep slope area requiring such protection measures.
   G.   Woodlands: The cutting of trees over a greater area than permitted in
section 10-8-2, table IV-C of this chapter is permitted if mitigation is
provided and meets the following standards:
      1.   A tree survey of the entire woodlands on the site is conducted. The
best woodlands in terms of percentage of climax vegetation, tree size, tree
health, and habitat value shall be preserved. The purpose of the mitigation
shall be either:
         a.   To permit large commercial or industrial type buildings that
typically must be a single floor. This does not include grading the entire
site, and parking should seek to preserve trees; or
         b.   To enhance or create a better distribution of woodlands
throughout a residential development.
      2.   The level of protection given woodlands shall not be less than that
in table V-E2 of this section.
      TABLE V-E2
      WOODLAND PROTECTION WITH MITIGATION
 
Type Of Forest CBD, LI, LI-2 Districts All Other Districts
               Normal Mitigation       Normal Mitigation
Mature forest  0.70   0.60             0.70   0.65
Young forest   0.40   0.20             0.40   0.25
 
      3.   The land on which the mitigation is to take place shall be on site.
      4.   Mitigation shall include the planting of one and one-fourth (1.25)
acres of new woodland for every one acre of disturbed mature or young woodland
for which mitigation is required.
      5.   Undesirable, nonnative tree species such as Acer negundo (box
elder), Robinia pseudoacacia (black locust), Rhamnus cathartica (common
buckthorn), Rhamnus frangula (smooth buckthorn), Ailanthus altissima (tree of
heaven), Eleagnus angustifolia (Russian olive), Eleagnus umbellata (autumn
olive), Populas alba (white poplar) and Ulmus pumila (siberian elm) shall not
be considered a natural resource and shall not require protection under this
section.
      6.   Mitigation shall include the replacement of woodlands that have been
disturbed with the planting of new woodlands (as specified above) based on a
tree survey of the disturbed area (table V-E6 of this section).
TABLE V-E6
STANDARDS FOR REPLACEMENT OF WOODLANDS
 
dbh Of Canopy Trees Removed Replacement Canopy Trees
                            Amount Caliper
36" or larger               5      4"
24" - 35"                   3      4"
16" - 23"                   3      3"
9" - 15"                    2      3"
3" - 8"                     1      3"
 
   H.   Protected Resources And Lot Area Calculations:
      1.   Land area protected under the resource protection and environmental
standards of section 10-8-2 of this chapter and this section may not be counted
as lot area for the purpose of meeting the minimum lot area standards of
section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this title.
      2.   Land area protected under the resource protection and environmental
standards of section 10-8-2 of this chapter and this section must either be
dedicated to a village approved public agency or held in common ownership by a
property owners' association who shall assume full responsibility for
protection and maintenance. The planning commission shall be authorized to
recommend and the village board shall be authorized to allow protected resource
areas to be located on private lots if:
         a.   The subdivision consists of nine (9) or fewer lots;
         b.   All lots have a minimum lot area of at least fifteen thousand
(15,000) square feet; and
         c.   Such authorization does not violate the provisions of subsection
H1 of this section. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2017-02-02, 2-8-
2017)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Planned Developments
10-9-1.1: Purpose
10-9-1.2: Intent
10-9-1.3: Parties Entitled To Seek Planned Development Approval
10-9-1.4: Planned Development Required
10-9-1.5: Planned Development Guidelines
10-9-1.6: Permitted Exceptions From The Zoning Regulations
10-9-1.7: Planned Development Review Procedures
10-9-1.8: Submission Requirements
10-9-1.9: Conflict
10-9-2: Standards For All Commercial Centers
10-9-3: Standards For Subdivisions
10-9-1: PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
10-9-1.1: PURPOSE:
Planned development regulations allow for development of innovative and
environmentally sensitive design by allowing a degree of flexibility in the
strict application of the zoning district regulations. A planned development is
a conditional use, which may be granted by the village board should it
determine that the planned development is in the best interest of the village,
is substantially consistent with the comprehensive plan, and would not
otherwise be permitted pursuant to these zoning regulations. A planned
development may depart from strict conformance with the required density,
dimension, area, bulk use and other regulations for the applicable zoning
districts and other provisions of these zoning regulations.
The plan commission and village board may require any condition or design
consideration that will promote proper development or benefit the community. In
exchange for the flexibility permitted under this chapter, the planned
development should provide amenities not otherwise required by this chapter and
establish facilities and open space greater than the minimum required by the
ordinances of the village. It is not intended that the village board
automatically grant the maximum use exceptions or density premiums in the case
of each planned development. The plan commission shall recommend and the
village board shall grant only such premiums or latitudes that are consistent
with sound land use planning, village growth policy, accrue benefits to the
village, and which are consistent with the character of the village.
As a condition of approval, each planned development shall be compatible with
the character and objectives of the underlying zoning district or districts
within which it is located, and each planned development shall be consistent
with the official planning policies of the village. As specified in these
zoning regulations, planned developments shall be conditional uses. (Ord. 2016-
11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.2: INTENT:
The primary purpose of a planned development (PD) is to stimulate the
development of balanced neighborhoods containing physical, economic, and social
assets difficult to achieve through traditional zoning districts and use
regulations. This may be accomplished by the village granting the applicant
certain exceptions or variations from the provisions of the village's zoning
regulations through a planned development in order to protect natural
resources, to protect and improve the social and economic environment; and/or
to protect and/or encourage investment in both the village and in the
development.
The intent of a planned development is to:
   A.   Afford greater choice in the types of development available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other requirements of these zoning regulations.
   B.   Allow for a more creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better development, design, and the
construction of amenities and protection of environmentally sensitive areas.
   C.   Promote the preservation of, and where appropriate, public access to
open space and provide more usable and suitably located recreation areas and
facilities.
   D.   Encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural resources and
vistas, topographic and geographic features, and architectural and historic
landmarks.
   E.   Permit an efficient use of land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, public grounds, and buildings, and other
facilities.
   F.   Encourage the use of land which promotes the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   G.   Promote compatibility between competing or potentially incompatible
uses.
   H.   Ease the transition from one zoning classification to another.
   I.   Address unique land use or site design issues associated with a
proposed development request; and
   J.   Guide development in unique circumstances. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.3: PARTIES ENTITLED TO SEEK PLANNED DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL:
An application for a conditional use permit to allow a planned development may
be filed by the owner of, or by any person having a substantial contractual
interest in, the subject property, or by a unit of local government, even when
the unit of local government does not own or have a substantial contractual
interest in the subject property, provided that the unit of local government is
a petitioner or a copetitioner for the subject property. The village board may
also designate areas within the village where development proposals shall be
subject to review as planned developments. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.4: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REQUIRED:
Any development or redevelopment of property requiring a building permit or
site development permit shall require planned development approval, if such
development or redevelopment is under single ownership and/or will be developed
under unified control and has or is proposed to contain two (2) or more
principal structures or two (2) or more principal uses, which structures and/or
uses are or are proposed to be commercial and/or multi-family in nature (i.e.,
containing attached dwelling units). (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.5: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES:
The following guidelines will be used by the plan commission and the village
board to evaluate the suitability of proposed planned developments. These
guidelines represent sound planning principles which should be incorporated
into planned developments. However, it is not intended that each and every one
of these guidelines be rigidly conformed to, as long as just cause for any
departure from these guidelines is demonstrated to the village board.
   A.   The planned development shall be consistent with the intent and purpose
of these zoning regulations.
   B.   The planned development shall be generally compatible with the
character of the underlying zoning district and neighborhood in which it is
located.
   C.   The planned development should be consistent with the village's
official comprehensive plan.
   D.   The planned development should preserve the value of the surrounding
residential area and must be compatible with surrounding land uses.
   E.   Significant physical, topographical, environmentally sensitive or
historical features of the site of the planned development, which are of
importance to the community, should be preserved.
   F.   The entire property proposed for planned development treatment shall be
in single ownership or under such unified control, or the petition shall
include a unit of local government as a petitioner or as a copetitioner, so as
to ensure that the entire property will ultimately be developed as a unified
whole. All owners of the subject property shall be included as joint applicants
on all applications and all approvals shall bind all owners, except that
notwithstanding any of the foregoing to the contrary, a unit of local
government may petition for property which it does not own provided the unit of
local government is the petitioner or a copetitioner. Parties entitled to apply
for a conditional use permit shall be limited to the property owner, agent of
the property owner, or the contract purchaser of subject property, acting with
the consent of the property owner, or the village, or another unit of local
government. The violation of any owner as to any lot shall be deemed a
violation as to all owners and all lots. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.6: PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS FROM THE ZONING REGULATIONS:
Exceptions (i.e., variations) from these zoning regulations granted pursuant to
a conditional use for a planned development shall solely be for the purpose of
promoting better development that will be beneficial to the village, to the
residents of the planned development, and to the residents of surrounding
properties. To achieve the intended benefits of the planned development,
exceptions from the regulations of the underlying district may be authorized as
follows:
   A.   Exceptions From Use Regulations, Bulk Intensity, Landscaping, Parking,
Signage And Architectural Design Guidelines:
      1.   Proposed exceptions shall enhance the quality of the planned
development and shall be compatible with the primary uses of the property.
      2.   Proposed exceptions shall not be of a nature, nor located so as to
create a detrimental influence on the surrounding properties.
      3.   Planned developments may be used to adjust otherwise applicable lot
width, lot area (setback) standards, provided that such adjustments do not have
the effect of allowing more lots or dwelling units than would otherwise be
permitted in accordance with the lot area, yard and bulk standards of section
10-3C-2, table 2 of this title. Applicants may be required to submit "before
and after" plans demonstrating that proposed adjustments allowed under a
planned development would not have the effect of allowing more lots or dwelling
units than would otherwise be permitted in accordance with the lot area, yard
and bulk standards of section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this title.
      4.   A planned development may also be used to impose more restrictive
standards than would otherwise be applicable to the property under the base
zoning designation. In such cases, a planned development may propose to:
         a.   Restrict the types of uses allowed by prohibiting uses that are
otherwise allowed as permitted, conditional, or accessory uses in the base
zoning district;
         b.   Decrease the number or density of dwelling units that may be
constructed on the property;
         c.   Increase minimum lot size or minimum lot width requirements;
         d.   Decrease the allowed maximum height of buildings;
         e.   Increase minimum yard and setback requirements;
         f.   Decrease maximum building or impervious coverage standards;
         g.   Restrict access to abutting and nearby roadways and impose
specific design features to ameliorate potentially adverse traffic impacts; or
         h.   Restrict any other specific site development regulation required
or authorized by this zoning ordinance.
      5.   Along the periphery of such planned developments, yards shall be
provided as required by the regulations of the underlying zoning district.
      6.   The village board may, as a part of the planned development
approval, grant, impose, modify and/or waive any conditions and/or requirements
listed in this section.
   B.   Exceptions From Standards In Other Village Ordinances: The village
board may, as part of the planned development approval, grant exceptions from
the standards and requirements of other village ordinances, including, but not
limited to, the village's subdivision regulations, the building code, or the
watershed development ordinance. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.7: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES:
A planned development may be granted as a conditional use permit in any zoning
district in which it is permitted in accordance with the standards and
procedures set forth in this chapter. Applications shall be made on forms
provided by the village's zoning official and shall be accompanied by the
required plans and documents set forth in this chapter, together with all
required fees therefor as set forth in these zoning regulations. The steps in
the procedure for consideration of a planned development are as follows:
Step 1: A preliminary planned development plan or preliminary plat shall be
submitted to the village for consideration by the plan commission for the
required public hearing thereon, after which the board of trustees will review
such report or recommendation of the plan commission at a duly called board
meeting.
Step 2: A final plan or final plat shall be submitted to the village for
possible final approval by ordinance passed by the board of trustees.
   A.   Preliminary Plan Procedure:
      1.   Purpose: The preliminary plan or plat is intended to provide the
applicant an opportunity to submit a plan showing the basic scope, character,
and nature of the entire proposed planned development. The preliminary plan or
plat is the basis on which the required public hearing is held, thus permitting
public consideration of and comments on the proposal at the earliest possible
stage. A preliminary plan or plat shall contain the following basic elements of
the proposed development:
         a.   Categories of uses to be permitted.
         b.   General location of residential and nonresidential land uses.
         c.   Overall maximum density of residential uses and intensity of
nonresidential uses.
         d.   The general architectural design and building materials of the
proposed development must be in compliance with the applicable architectural
design standards of the village.
         e.   General location and extent of public and private open space,
including recreational amenities.
         f.   General location of vehicular and pedestrian circulation systems.
         g.   General location of existing natural areas, floodplains, wetlands
and buffers, both on site and adjacent to the site.
         h.   General location and supporting information for stormwater
conveyance and management facilities.
         i.   Nature, scope and extent of public dedications, improvements, or
contributions to be provided by the applicant.
         j.   Phasing of development.
      2.   Application: Applications for approval of a preliminary plan or plat
shall be filed on forms provided by the village's zoning official.
      3.   Preliminary Plan Or Plat Submissions: The applicant shall prepare
and submit plans and other documents in conformance with this chapter and the
application forms provided by the zoning official.
      4.   Public Hearing: A public hearing shall be set, noticed and conducted
by the plan commission in accordance with the requirements of section 10-7-8 of
this title.
      5.   Recommendation By Plan Commission:
         a.   Planned developments shall be subject to the applicable standards
and review procedures for conditional use permits as outlined in this chapter.
Accordingly, after the conclusion of the public hearing, the plan commission
shall, with such aid and advice of village staff, review the preliminary plan
or plat and transmit to the village board its findings and recommendation as to
whether the preliminary plan or plat should be approved, approved subject to
modifications, or not approved. In addition to the standards for conditional
uses included in section 10-7-2 of this title, such review shall consider:
            (1)   In what respects the proposed plan or plat is, or is not,
consistent with the stated purpose of the planned development regulations set
forth in this chapter and the extent to which the proposed plan or plat meets
the requirements and standards of the planned development regulations.
            (2)   The general extent to which the proposed plan or plat departs
from these zoning regulations and/or from title 11, "Subdivision Regulations",
of this code otherwise applicable to the subject property and the relation of
any proposed exceptions to the public interest.
            (3)   The general extent to which the proposed plan or plat
produces, or does not produce, a public benefit, in terms of the planned
development meeting the planning objectives and standards of the village.
            (4)   The physical design of the proposed plan or plat and the
manner in which its design does, or does not, make adequate provision for
public services, provide adequate control over vehicular traffic, provide for
and protect designated common open space, and further the amenities of light
and air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
            (5)   The relationship and compatibility, beneficial or adverse, of
the proposed plan to the adjacent properties and to the neighborhood, and the
desirability of the proposed plan to the village's physical development, tax
base and economic well being.
         b.   The plan commission shall hold the required public hearing on the
application and provide to the board of trustees its written recommendation of
approval, approval with modifications, or disapproval of the application for
preliminary plan or plat approval within ninety (90) days from the date of
submission to the village of the application or the submission by the applicant
of the last item of required supporting data and/or required documents as
determined and certified by the zoning official, whichever date is later,
unless such time is extended with the agreement of the applicant. If
disapproval of such preliminary plan or plat is recommended, then within said
ninety (90) day period, the plan commission shall furnish to the applicant a
written statement setting forth the reason(s) for such recommendation of
disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed
plan or plat fails to comply with the applicable ordinances of the village.
         c.   If such a preliminary plan or plat is recommended by the plan
commission for approval or disapproval, the board of trustees shall accept or
reject said recommendation within thirty (30) days after the board of trustees'
next regular scheduled meeting following the action of the plan commission or
within such extended time to which the applicant may agree. Preliminary
approval shall not qualify a plat for recording.
      6.   Action By Village Board Of Trustees:
         a.   Approval Or Denial: Within thirty (30) days after its next
regular meeting following the date of recommendation by the plan commission,
relative to a preliminary plan or plat, the village board shall consider the
recommendations of the plan commission, and within said thirty (30) day period
or within such extended time to which the applicant may agree, the village
board shall, by ordinance, either: 1) approve the preliminary plan or plat, or
approve the preliminary plan or plat with modifications and conditions which
modifications and conditions shall be accepted in writing by the applicant as
condition(s) of such approval, or 2) the village board shall reject such
preliminary plan or plat and deny the application for preliminary plan or plat
approval and provide to the applicant a written statement setting forth the
reason(s) for such rejection and disapproval, or 3) with the written
concurrence of the applicant, the village board shall refer the preliminary
plan or plat back to the plan commission for further consideration of specified
matters.
         b.   Conditions On Approval: Every such preliminary approval and the
approval of a conditional use permit for a planned development shall be
expressly conditioned upon approval of final plans by ordinance of the board of
trustees and upon the applicant's compliance with all applicable provisions of
these zoning regulations and all other applicable ordinances of the village.
         c.   Failure To Act: The failure of the village board to act within
such thirty (30) day period, or within such extended time to which the
applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval.
      7.   Changes In A Preliminary Plan: Changes to a preliminary plan or plat
shall be classified as follows:
         a.   Major Changes: Major changes shall require submission and
approval of a new preliminary plan or plat and all required or requested
supporting data in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Major
changes are those which would:
            (1)   Alter the overall concept or intent; or
            (2)   Change the uses and/or their general location; or
            (3)   Change by more than twenty percent (20%) any housing type; or
            (4)   Decrease the separation between buildings; or
            (5)   Increase the density, building coverage, or building height;
or
            (6)   Change the architectural design or building materials; or
            (7)   Reduce the open space; or
            (8)   Change the standards of locations of roads or utilities; or
            (9)   Reduce natural areas, wetlands, or buffers; or
            (10)   Change proposed drainage; and/or
            (11)   Amend the ordinance granting the conditional use permit for
the planned development; or
            (12)   Change the development schedule by more than six (6) months.
         b.   Minor Changes: Minor changes to an approved preliminary plan or
plat shall not require the submission of a new preliminary plan or plat, but
shall require the identification of the minor changes on the final plan or plat
documents for review by the plan commission and village board. Minor changes
are those which are not major, as determined by the zoning official.
   B.   Final Plan Or Plat Procedure:
      1.   Purpose: The final plan or plat is intended to refine and implement
the preliminary plan or plat and to serve as a complete, thorough and permanent
public record of the planned development and the manner in which it is to be
developed.
      2.   Application: Within one year after the date of approval of the
preliminary plan or plat, or within such other time period as agreed to in an
approved phasing plan, the applicant shall file an application for final plan
or plat approval in accordance with the requirements of this section. The
application may include the entire area included in the approved preliminary
plan or plat or one or more phases or units thereof in accordance with the
phasing plan, if any, approved as part of the preliminary plan or plat. The
application shall refine, implement and be in substantial conformity with the
approved preliminary plan or plat.
      3.   Final Plan Submissions: The applicant shall prepare and submit plans
and other documents in conformance with this chapter for review by the plan
commission.
      4.   Coordination With Subdivision Regulations: When a subdivision of
land subject to the village subdivision regulations is proposed in connection
with a planned development, application for approval of, and review of, the
final plat of the proposed subdivision shall be carried out simultaneously with
an application for approval and review of the final planned development plan.
      5.   Recommendation By Plan Commission: Within thirty (30) days after the
zoning official has certified the completeness of an application for approval
of a final plan, the plan commission shall hold a public hearing, and with such
aid and advice of the village staff, review the plan and transmit to the
village board its findings and recommendation whether the final plan be either
approved, approved subject to modifications, or not approved. Such review shall
consider:
         a.   Whether the final plan is in substantial conformity with the
approved preliminary plan.
         b.   The merit, or lack of merit, of any departure of the final plan
from substantial conformity with the approved preliminary plan.
         c.   Whether the final plan complies with any and all conditions
imposed by approval of the preliminary plan.
         d.   Whether the final plan complies with the provisions of this
chapter and these zoning regulations and other applicable ordinances and
regulations of the village.
      6.   Action By Village Board Of Trustees: The village board of trustees
shall approve or disapprove the final plan or plat within sixty (60) days from
the date of submission thereof to the village by the applicant or by the
developer of the last item of required and/or requested supporting documents
and/or of information requested by the village board of trustees, whichever
date is later, unless such time is extended with the agreement of the
applicant. Such required and/or requested document(s) shall include a written
recommendation from the plan commission relative to such proposed final plan.
If such final plan or plat is disapproved, then within said sixty (60) day
period, the village shall furnish to the applicant a written statement setting
forth the reason for disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects
in which the proposed plan or plat fails to comply with the applicable
ordinances of the village. Within said sixty (60) day period, the village board
shall either: a) approve the final plan or plat, with or without modifications
and conditions which modifications shall be accepted in writing by the
applicant as condition(s) of such approval, or b) reject the final plan or plat
and refer the final plan or plat back to the plan commission for further
consideration of specified matters, or c) deny the final plan or plat, and in
the event of such rejection, the village board shall furnish to the developer a
written statement setting forth the reason(s) for such disapproval and
specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed plan fails to
comply with the applicable ordinances of the village.
         a.   Conditions On Final Plan Approval: The approval of any final plan
may be granted by ordinance with or without modifications and conditions which
modifications and/or conditions shall be accepted in writing by the applicant
as condition(s) of such approval.
         b.   Failure To Act: The failure of the village board to timely act
within sixty (60) days, as required by this section or such extended time to
which the applicant may agree, shall be deemed to be a decision of disapproval.
      7.   Recording Of Final Plat Or Plan: When a final plat or plan is
approved, the village shall cause the final plat or plan, or such portions
thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded with the offices of the Lake County
recorder of deeds.
All covenants, deed restrictions, easements, and similar restrictions to be
recorded in connection with the planned development shall provide that they may
not be modified, removed, or released without the express prior written consent
of the village board and that they may be enforced by the village as well as by
future landowners within the proposed development.
      8.   Changes In The Final Plat Or Plan: The development of a planned
development shall be in conformance with the approved and recorded final plat
or plan documents. The approved documents shall be binding on the applicants,
and their successors, grantees and assignees and shall limit and control the
use, improvement, and development of the planned development. Changes in the
final plat or plan are subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   Major Changes: Major changes shall require submission of a
revised preliminary plan and a revised final plan or plat for the proposed
development in accordance with this chapter. Major changes are those which:
            (1)   Alter the overall concept or intent; or
            (2)   Change the uses and/or their general location; or
            (3)   Change by more than twenty percent (20%) any housing type; or
            (4)   Decrease the separation between buildings; or
            (5)   Increase the density, building coverage, or building height;
or
            (6)   Change the architectural design or building materials; or
            (7)   Reduce the open space; or
            (8)   Change the standards of locations of roads or utilities; or
            (9)   Reduce natural areas, wetlands, or buffers; or
            (10)   Change proposed drainage; or
            (11)   Amend the ordinance granting the conditional use permit for
the planned development; or
            (12)   Change the development schedule by more than six (6) months.
         b.   Minor Changes: A final plat or plan may be changed, subject to
the village board's prior written approval without modifying the preliminary
plan. Minor changes are those which are not major, as determined by the zoning
official or by the village board.
         c.   Authorized Administrative Changes: Changes in the location of
buildings, streets and parking lots of one foot (1') or less may be approved by
the zoning official when such changes are requested pursuant to obtaining a
building permit. However, such changes shall not decrease a peripheral yard or
peripheral open space.
   C.   Revocation Of Conditional Use Permit: Construction of an approved
planned development shall commence in accordance with the approved final plan,
or in the case of phased developments, in accordance with the development
schedule of an approved phasing plan. If construction falls one year behind the
approved schedule, the village board may, unless an extension of time is
granted by the village board, initiate an appropriate application to revoke the
conditional use permit for all affected portions of the planned development.
The developer of the planned development shall be notified prior to any
proposed revocation of the respective conditional use permit and be given an
opportunity to be heard by the village board prior to revocation of the
respective conditional use permit. Notification mailed to the developer and/or
applicant for the conditional use permit by registered mail or certified mail,
return receipt requested, shall be considered adequate notice.
   D.   Amendments To Final Plat Or Plan Following Completion Of Development:
After completion of a planned development, an approved final plat or plan may
be amended, varied or altered in the same manner and subject to the same
limitations, as provided for major changes in this section. The respective
amended final plat or plan shall be recorded by the village with the Lake
County recorder of deeds. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.8: SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
All plans and supporting data for planned development applications shall
include the documentation listed below. In developing plans and specifications
for all required improvements, the applicant shall also conform to the
standards set forth in the village's subdivision regulations and other
applicable ordinances.
   A.   Preliminary Plan Stage: The submission requirements for a preliminary
planned development plan shall include the following submittals, unless waived
by the zoning official:
      1.   Plan Commission:
         a.   A written letter of intent from the applicant describing the
applicant's intention for developing the site.
         b.   A topographic survey.
         c.   A location map.
         d.   General site information. Data regarding site conditions, land
characteristics, general land use, zoning, available community facilities and
utilities, existing covenants, and other related general information about land
uses within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the proposed site perimeter.
         e.   Conceptual plan. A scaled drawing of the site, in simple sketch
form, showing the proposed location and extent of the land uses, major streets,
lots, and other features as they are related to the site.
         f.   Conceptual structures. Sketches depicting the general
architecture and massing of buildings and structures on the site, and
information depicting the architecture and massing of buildings and structures
adjacent to the site.
         g.   Legal description. A plat of survey and legal description of the
site proposed for development prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the state
of Illinois.
         h.   Tentative plans for water supply, sewage disposal, surface
drainage, open space, and other public facilities and improvements.
         j.   Fiscal impact study comparing the projected tax revenue generated
by the project and the added costs for services as they will affect local
government jurisdictions.
         j.   School impact study indicating the number of new students
generated by the project. This information will be used in the fiscal impact
study above to determine the project's impact on local school districts.
         k.   Traffic impact study indicating the daily and peak traffic
generation by the project.
         l.   Market study to evaluate the economic feasibility of the proposed
development, including market acceptance of the proposed development products,
comparative alignment and market absorption. The market study shall be prepared
by a qualified, independent market research firm.
         m.   A construction activities plan indicating how construction
activity will be controlled by addressing contractor ingress/egress,
construction parking, street cleaning and pest control.
         n.   Financial information including a copy of lender's commitment;
MAI appraisals on the existing site and after development completion,
certificate of no delinquent taxes; and financial pro forma.
         o.   Proposed covenants to govern the use and maintenance of the
development and ensure the continued observance of the provisions of the
planned development.
         p.   A narrative description of the planned development describing:
the intent and desired effect of the development; the manner in which the
development has been planned to take advantage of the flexibility of the
planned development regulations; the superior benefits that would accrue to the
residents/users of the development; all relief sought from the standard
application of district requirements in conjunction with project.
         q.   Proof of ownership or control of the site.
         r.   A development schedule indicating:
            (1)   A description of the development phases including the public
facilities to be constructed with each phase, the density and/or floor area of
buildings, open space, and mix of uses in each phase.
            (2)   The approximate dates of the beginning and end of each phase.
            (3)   The area and general content of each stage shall be shown on
a plat and supporting graphics.
         s.   Submission and approval of all applicable plans and materials
required in the village's watershed development regulations and tree
preservation regulations.
         t.   A description of the materials to be used in the construction of
buildings and structures.
   B.   Final Plan Stage: The final plan or plat of the planned development
shall be prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the state of Illinois and
accurately drawn in ink on material capable of producing clear and legible
contact prints or photostatic copies and shall show the following:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   Name of developer.
         b.   Street names.
         c.   Location by section, township, and range by legal description.
         d.   Graphic scale and north arrow.
      2.   Planned Development Plan Or Plat: The developer shall provide to the
village a final detailed planned development plan or plat of subdivision
prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the state of Illinois, suitable for
recording with the county recorder of deeds. The purpose of the planned
development final plan or plat is to designate with particularity the land
subdivided into conventional lots, as well as the division of other lands into
common open and building areas and any dedicated areas and/or easements, and to
designate and limit the number and use of structures and land areas within the
planned development. The final planned development plat or plan and supporting
data shall include the following:
         a.   Information For Final Plan: All information for a final plan or
plat as required by title 11, "Subdivision Regulations", of this code.
         b.   Designations: Designation of the exact location of all buildings
to be constructed, and a designation of the specific internal uses for which
each building will be utilized, including construction details; centerline
elevations; pavement type; curbs, gutters, culverts, any dedicated areas and/or
easements within the planned development, etc.; and a street numbering
designation shall be furnished for each building.
         c.   Documentation: Documents relative to the common area(s) and/or
open space shall be provided including, at the election of the village, the
following information:
            (1)   Preservation: Adequate safeguards, including recorded
covenants or dedication of development rights, shall be provided where
appropriate to prevent the subsequent use of common area(s) and/or open space
for any use, structure, improvement, or development other than that shown on
the approved final plan or plat. The restrictions shall be permanent, and not
for a given period of years, and shall run with the land.
            (2)   Ownership And Maintenance: The final plan or plat shall
include such provisions for the ownership and maintenance of common area(s)
and/or open space, including all improvements thereto, as are reasonably
necessary to ensure their continuity, care, conservation, maintenance, and
operation in good condition in accordance with predetermined standards and to
ensure that remedial measures will be available to the village if such common
area(s) and/or open space or improvements are permitted to deteriorate or are
not maintained in a condition consistent with the best interests of the planned
development or the village.
            (3)   Property Owners' Association Information: Where the ownership
or maintenance of such common area(s) and/or open space or improvements to any
part thereof is proposed to be by a property owners' association, such
association shall meet each of the following standards:
               (A)   The bylaws and rules of the association and all
declarations, covenants and restrictions to be recorded shall be approved in
advance in writing by the village as part of the final plat or plan prior to
becoming effective.
               (B)   The bylaws and rules of the association and all
declarations, covenants, and restrictions shall be recorded with the county
recorder of deeds and shall each provide that it shall not be amended in any
manner that would result in it being in violation of the requirements of this
chapter and/or any other provision of this code.
               (C)   The association shall be incorporated and registered with
the Illinois secretary of state by the applicant and/or developer prior to the
village's approval of any final plan or plat for the planned development, and
all covenants and restrictions relative to the planned development shall be in
writing, approved by the village, and recorded prior to the sale of any
property within the planned development.
               (D)   The association shall be responsible to obtain, carry, pay
for, and maintain casualty and liability insurance, taxes, and the maintenance
of the open space, common areas and/or elements, and improvements to be deeded
to it.
               (E)   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for each
property owner and any successive owner having a right to the use, enjoyment or
benefit of such open space, common areas and/or elements, or improvements.
               (F)   Every property owner having a right to the use, enjoyment
or benefit of such open space or improvements shall pay its pro rata share of
the cost of the association by means of an assessment to be levied by the
association that meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in
accordance with statutes of the state of Illinois.
               (G)   The association shall have the right to periodically
adjust the assessment to be paid by each property owner to meet changed needs
by a membership vote of not more than a majority of the members authorized to
vote on the issue.
               (H)   The village shall be given the right, but not the
obligation, to enforce the covenants of the respective planned development.
               (I)   The village shall be given the right, after ten (10) days'
written notice to the association, to perform any maintenance or repair work
that the association has a duty to perform, to assess the membership for such
work and to have a lien against the property of any member failing to pay such
assessment and, for this purpose alone, all the rights and powers of the
association and its governing body under the agreements and declarations
creating the association.
         d.   Final Landscape Plan: A final landscape plan shall be prepared in
substantial conformance to the approved preliminary landscape plan. The form
and content of the final landscape plan shall conform to the requirements of
these zoning regulations. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-1.9: CONFLICT:
In the event of a conflict with the terms and conditions of this chapter and
those of Illinois statutes, the Illinois statutes shall govern. (Ord. 2016-11-
02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-2: STANDARDS FOR ALL COMMERCIAL CENTERS:
   A.   All requirements of this title, in addition to the specific
requirements of this section, shall be met by any commercial center.
   B.   All individual uses proposed for a commercial center must comply with
section 10-3B-2, table 1 of this title. For example, warehouses would not be
permitted within a commercial center located in the SB district.
   C.   All off street parking spaces and servicing drives shall be located
within the boundaries of the property being developed as a commercial center.
   D.   Each shop or store shall have a rear or side entrance that is
accessible to a loading area and service drive. Service drives shall be a
minimum of twenty six feet (26') in width and shall be in addition to, and not
part of, the drives or circulation system used by the vehicles of clientele.
   E.   The arrangement of truck loading and unloading facilities for each shop
or store shall be such that, in the process of loading or unloading, no truck
will block or extend into any other private or public drive or street used for
vehicular circulation. Loading and delivery zones shall be clearly marked.
   F.   Each commercial center shall be provided with enclosed refuse
enclosures of sufficient size and number to accommodate all trash and waste
stored on the premises in a convenient manner.
   G.   There shall be no trash burner or incinerator, or any burning of trash
or rubbish on the premises.
   H.   Outlots are permitted in a commercial center provided that: 1) internal
and external vehicular and pedestrian circulation is not adversely affected; 2)
parking and landscaping requirements are met individually for each outlot and
for the commercial center as a whole; 3) a consistency of design is maintained
between the commercial center and the outlots. (Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
10-9-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
All subdivisions shall be required to meet all applicable requirements of this
title and of title 11, "Subdivision Regulations", of this code, in addition to
the specific requirements of this section.
   A.   Lot Area: Any principal use together with all accessory uses shall be
located on a lot having a minimum area as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
column 3 of this title.
The minimum lot area for apartment houses and attached dwellings shall be the
sum of the lot area requirement for the first dwelling unit plus the lot area
requirement for the second dwelling unit, plus the lot area requirement for
each additional dwelling unit as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 3 of
this title.
   B.   Lot Width: Each lot shall have a width at the building setback line as
shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of this title.
The minimum lot width for apartment houses and attached dwellings shall be the
sum of the lot width requirement for the first dwelling unit plus the lot width
requirement for the second dwelling unit, plus the lot width requirement for
each additional dwelling unit as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this
title.
Lots in any zone shall have a minimum width at the building setback line on any
street as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of this title; except
certain lots in the UR3 and UR3A zones shall be subject to the following
special rules: Lots in the UR3 and UR3A zones, which are either at the terminus
of a cul-de-sac or on a curvilinear street, may have a width at the building
setback line less than the average width of the lot, but the width of such lots
as measured at the building setback may be not less than fifty percent (50%) of
the width specified in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 4 of this title, and
the width at the front lot line (i.e., the frontage) of such lots shall not be
less than fifty percent (50%) of the width specified in section 10-3C-2, table
2, column 4 of this title.
   C.   Front Yard: Each lot shall have a front yard setback as shown in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 5 of this title, provided, the front yard
setback may vary somewhat in accord with the use of certain alternate garage
types.
   D.   Rear Yard: Each lot shall have a rear yard not less than as shown in
section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 6 of this title, except as otherwise provided
under section 10-5-2, "Nonconforming Recorded Lots", of this title.
   E.   Side Yards: Each lot shall have two (2) side yards, the total of which
is shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 7 of this title. No side yard
shall be less than the minimum side yard shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
column 8 of this title, except as otherwise provided in the footnotes to
section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this title and under section 10-5-2, "Nonconforming
Recorded Lots", of this title.
   F.   Yards Abutting Residential Zoning: Any side or rear yard abutting a
residential zone shall be not less than as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2,
column 10 of this title.
   G.   Garage Front Yards: Any front load garage front yard setback shall not
be less than as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, footnote 11 of this title.
   H.   Average Lot Mix: UR3 single-family units are shown in section 10-3C-2,
table 2 of this title with three (3) lot sizes. Subdivisions of ten (10) or
more lots shall use all three (3) lot sizes in the minimum percentages
indicated in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 2 of this title. The differences
in area are the result of changes in the minimum lot width; all lots would have
the same depth. Subdivisions of nine (9) or fewer lots shall use the average or
middle of the three (3) lot sizes. All block faces in the subdivision shall use
all three (3) lot sizes so that the different lot sizes are distributed
throughout the development.
   I.   Treatment Of Corner Lots Where Three Lot Sizes Are Specified: Corner
lots have two (2) street yards and, thus, to maintain the building pad width
and the same buildable area as an interior lot, the width of the corner lots
shall maintain the same pad width as the lot size/width it is intended to be.
This means a wider lot. The width of a corner lot shall be calculated as
follows: Add the width from figure 2 of this section to the [street yard minus
0.50 the total side yard]. This ensures that the buildable width of a corner
lot is identical to an interior lot of the same size.
FIGURE 2
MIXED BLOCK WIDTHS
 
Constant depth                 
               95' 75' 75' 85' 95' 75'
 
   J.   Height Of Principal Building: No principal building or structure shall
exceed the height restrictions as shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 13
of this title, or the height restrictions in stories as shown in section 10-3C-
2, table 2, column 14 of this title, except as specifically provided otherwise
in the footnotes to section 10-3C-2, table 2 of this title.
   K.   Accessory Structures, Height: No accessory building or structure shall
exceed the height in feet shown in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 15 of this
title, or the height in stories in section 10-3C-2, table 2, column 16 of this
title.
   L.   Accessory Structures, Setbacks: An accessory structure which is not
attached to nor part of a principal structure may be located within the
required side or rear yard setback, but not the front yard setback, provided
that it is located at least five feet (5') or greater from the lot line and,
further provided that the structure shall not be located in any area burdened
by a recorded easement such as, but not limited to, a utility easement.
Additionally, any accessory use must be separated from its principal use by at
least four feet (4').
   M.   Minimum Residential Floor Area: The minimum floor area required for
single-family dwelling units in all residential zones is one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet, except as otherwise required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-11-02, 11-9-2016)
CHAPTER 10
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, ZONING MAP, INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-10-1: Administration And Enforcement
10-10-2: Scope Of Authority Of The Zoning Officer
10-10-3: Zoning Map
10-10-4: Interpretation Of The Zoning Ordinance
10-10-5: Interpretation Of Zoning Map As To Lots And/Or Parcels Divided Into
Two (2) Or More Different Zoning Districts
10-10-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Zoning Officer: The office of the zoning officer is established and the
zoning officer shall be that person designated from time to time by the mayor
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The zoning officer, or
his designee, shall administer and enforce the zoning ordinance and shall:
      1.   Issue all zoning certificates and make and maintain records thereof;
      2.   Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof;
      3.   Issue and renew where applicable all temporary use permits and make
and maintain records thereof;
      4.   Issue all conditional use permits granted by the village and make
and maintain records thereof;
      5.   Maintain and keep current the municipal zoning map and record of
amendments thereof;
      6.   Conduct inspections as prescribed by the zoning ordinance and such
other inspections as are necessary to ensure compliance with the various
provisions of that ordinance;
      7.   Perform such other duties as are assigned to him by the zoning
ordinance;
      8.   Make a determination from public records of sufficient information
concerning nonconformances to properly enforce the zoning ordinance.
   B.   Zoning Board Of Appeals:
      1.   Creation And Membership: The word "board" when used in this section
shall be construed to mean the board of appeals.
      2.   Meetings: Meetings of the board of appeals shall be held at the call
of the chairman, or any two (2) members, or at such times as such board may
determine. All hearings conducted by said board shall be open to the public.
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of
fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested validation,
or special permit, and the reasons for granting or denying such application
shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal
thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the board
shall be filed immediately in the office of the board and shall be a public
record. The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not in conflict with
this title or with the Illinois statutes in such case made and provided, and
may select or appoint such officers, as it deems necessary.
   C.   Plan Commission: The plan commission shall have the following duties
under the zoning ordinance:
      1.   Establish rules of procedure as necessary to the performance of its
functions;
      2.   Review, modify, and recommend approval or disapproval of a
development plan;
      3.   Study and report on all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance;
review the zoning ordinance annually, and suggest amendments. (Ord. 2014-05-01,
5-28-2014)
10-10-2: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY OF THE ZONING OFFICER:
   A.   Enforcement: The zoning ordinance and map shall be enforced by the
zoning officer.
   B.   Building Permits, Certificate Of Occupancy And Change Of Use Permits:
Before any building or other structure, or part thereof, shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, moved, or structurally altered, and
before the use of any building, structure or land is changed within the village
limits, a building permit and certificate of occupancy shall be obtained from
the zoning officer. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-10-3: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Establishment: The locations and boundaries of the zones established by
this zoning ordinance shall be shown on a map officially designated official
zoning map of Lake Villa, Illinois, bearing the same date of passage as this
title.
      1.   Unclassified Lands: It is the intent of this zoning ordinance that
every part of the area regulated be included in one of the zones established.
Any land located within the village not shown to be included in a zone on the
official zoning map shall be deemed to be in the SR zone.
      2.   Annexations And Additional Area: Any addition made to the area
regulated by this title by annexation shall be automatically classified in the
SR zone (or in the AG zone by request).
   B.   Interpretation: The following rules shall be used by the zoning officer
to determine the precise location of any zone boundary shown on the official
zoning map:
      1.   Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, the
village limits, or platted on lot lines or other property lines or section
lines, half section lines, or quarter section lines, shall be construed as
following such lines.
      2.   Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, streets
or railroad lines shall be construed as following the centerlines of such
streets or railroad rights of way.
      3.   Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following,
shorelines or any lakes shall be construed as following mean high water lines
or such lakes, and, in the event of change in the mean high water line, shall
be construed as moving with the actual mean high water line.
      4.   Boundaries shown as following, or approximately following, the
centerlines of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing watercourses
shall be construed as following the channel centerline or such watercourses
taken at mean low water, and in the event of a natural change in the location
of such streams, rivers, or other watercourses the zone boundary shall be
construed as moving the channel centerline.
      5.   Boundaries shown as separated from, and parallel or approximately
parallel to, any of the features listed in subsections B1 through B4 of this
section shall be construed as being parallel to such features and at such
distances therefrom as are shown on the map. Distances not specifically
indicated on the map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   C.   Changes: If by amendment to the zoning ordinance, any zone boundary as
shown on the official zoning map or any other matter shown thereon, is changed
by action of the village board, such changes shall be promptly indicated on the
official zoning map by the zoning officer, together with the date of passage of
the amendment and sufficient written description to give a precise
understanding of the change. Every change shall be certified by the village
clerk.
   D.   Inspection: An up to date copy of the official zoning map shall be
available for public inspection in the village office at all times the office
is regularly open for business.
   E.   Publication: Prior to April 1 each year, maps showing zoning shall be
made available for public purchase. Such maps shall show the zone boundaries
and such other information as is necessary to give a clear understanding of the
zones created by this zoning ordinance and subsequent amendments as of December
31 of the year preceding publication. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-10-4: INTERPRETATION OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE:
   A.   General Provisions: The zoning officer shall interpret the zoning
ordinance in accordance with the standards set forth below. His interpretations
shall be subject to appeal as provided herein. Each interpretation of the
zoning officer is subject to review and approval of the village board. The
village board may affirm, modify, or reverse any interpretation of the zoning
officer. The zoning officer shall file with the village clerk a written notice
of each interpretation. That interpretation shall become final thirty (30) days
after filing unless the village board acts to modify or reverse it within said
thirty (30) days.
      1.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of the
zoning ordinance the provisions shall be held to be minimum requirements for
the promotion and protection of the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
welfare.
      2.   Overlapping Or Contradictory Regulations: Whenever a provision of
the zoning ordinance or any other provisions of law, whether set forth in the
zoning ordinance or established by any other ordinance, regulations, statute,
or rule of any kind, imposes overlapping or contradictory regulations or
contains any restrictions covering any of the same subject matter, the
provision which is more restrictive or which imposes high standards or
requirements shall control.
   B.   Existing Permits And Agreements:
      1.   Building Permits: Nothing in the zoning ordinance shall be deemed to
require any change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any
building or other structure if a building permit for such building or other
structure was lawfully issued prior to the effective date of the relevant
portion of the zoning ordinance; and such permit has not, by its own terms,
expired prior to such effective date; and actual construction pursuant to such
permit was begun prior to the effective date of the zoning ordinance, and has
been diligently carried on.
      2.   Occupancy Permits: Upon completion of any building or other
structure in accordance with the above requirements and prior to occupancy, a
certificate of occupancy is required for the use originally designated. Such
building or other structure and its use, and the property on which it is
located, including all on site improvements required by this title (such as
buffer yards, landscaping, parking, signage and lighting) shall be subject to
all the requirements of this zoning ordinance and in particular to chapter 5,
"Nonconformances", of this title, where applicable.
      3.   Existing Private Agreements: The zoning ordinance is not intended to
abrogate, annul, or otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant, or other
private agreement or legal relationship. If the regulations of the zoning
ordinance are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than
any such easement, covenant, or other private agreement or legal relationship,
the regulations of the zoning ordinance shall control. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-
2004)
10-10-5: INTERPRETATION OF ZONING MAP AS TO LOTS AND/OR PARCELS DIVIDED INTO
TWO (2) OR MORE DIFFERENT ZONING DISTRICTS:
When it is readily apparent from the Village’s Official Zoning Map that a given
lot and/or parcel within the corporate limits of the Village is divided between
two (2) or more different zoning districts of the Village, in order to avoid
any inconvenience, uncertainty, and/or confusion in such cases, the Zoning
Official shall be and is hereby authorized to make a determination as to which
single zoning district shall be applicable to the entirety of such lot or
parcel by applying the hierarchy of rules of interpretation as set forth in
this Section in order to determine which single zoning district should be
applicable to the entirety of such lot and/or parcel, and so that such lot or
parcel may thereafter be treated as wholly contained within that single zoning
district assigned by the Zoning Official which results from the application of
the following hierarchy of rules of Zoning Map interpretation:
   A.   The rules of Zoning Map interpretation as set forth in this Section
shall be used by the Village’s Zoning Official to assign any given lot or
parcel now located in two (2) or more different zoning districts of the Village
to a single zoning district without further action of the Zoning Board of
Appeals or of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   The following rules shall be applied by the Zoning Official
sequentially in ascending numeric order until the question of which single
zoning district shall be applicable to the whole of a given lot or parcel which
is presently divided into two (2) or more different zoning districts by the
Zoning Map is unequivocally resolved:
      Rule #1: Assign a zoning district of the Village based upon the majority
of area of the lot or parcel which is located in one zoning district;
      Rule #2: Assign a zoning district based upon a comparison of the given
lot or parcel to all adjacent lot(s) or parcel(s), including but not limited to
lots or parcels fronting on the same street or roadway, but also those on the
opposite side of such street or roadway from the given lot or parcel in
question;
      Rule #3: Assign a zoning district which minimizes any hardship on the
owner(s) of any given lot or parcel.
   C.   Should the sequential application of the aforesaid hierarchy of rules
of Zoning Map interpretation not unequivocally resolve the question of the
appropriate assignment of a given lot or parcel to a single zoning district,
the owner(s) of such lot or parcel may initiate a Zoning Map amendment to
accomplish the assignment or classification of such lot or parcel into one
zoning district.
   D.   Should the owner(s) of the property in question disagree with the
determination of the Zoning Official as to the zoning district assigned to a
given lot or parcel, the property owner(s) may appeal such decision within
forty-five (45) days thereof to the Village’s Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord.
2023-06-02, 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 11
SEPARABILITY AND PENALTY
SECTION:
10-11-1: Separability
10-11-2: Penalty
10-11-3: Savings
10-11-4: Cumulative Remedies
10-11-1: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this title or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The village board of trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (Ord. 2004-01-01,
1-14-2004)
10-11-2: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time
in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed to occur for each day a violation occurs or continues. "Person", for the
purposes of this section, shall mean and include any individual, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other legal entity. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-
2004; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
10-11-3: SAVINGS:
This title shall be not construed or held to repeal a former ordinance, whether
such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed
against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising under the former
ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense or act so
committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or
any right accrued or claim arising before this title takes effect, save only
that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in force at the time
of such proceeding, so far as practicable. This section shall extend to all
repeals, either by express words or implication. Nothing contained in this
title shall be construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue
of any general ordinance of the village herein repealed and the provisions of
all general ordinances shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a
new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this title be deemed as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue,
or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving
any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at
the time of the adoption of this title. (Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
10-11-4: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES:
In addition to all other remedies provided herein, the village shall have such
other and further legal and equitable remedies as provided by law, including,
but not limited to, an injunction to prohibit the violation of this title.
(Ord. 2004-01-01, 1-14-2004)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, APPLICABILITY AND ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Intent
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Applicability
11-1-6: Legal Authority And Status
11-1-7: Approvals, Interpretations, Exceptions, And Variations
11-1-8: Revocation Of Site Development Permit
11-1-9: Enforcement And Penalties
11-1-10: Appeals
11-1-11: Effective Date
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be cited and referred to as the VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS and may also be referred to in this code as the VILLAGE
OF LAKE VILLA DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this title is to regulate the development of land located
within, and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of, the corporate limits of
the village and the regulations set forth in this title are hereby made a part
of the official comprehensive plan of the village of Lake Villa ("the
village"), as may be amended from time to time. This title is also intended to
provide for the harmonious development of the village and its environs; for the
coordination of streets within new developments with other existing or planned
streets; for the dedication and acceptance of land for public use; for the
installation and construction of utilities, roadways and other improvements
essential to service the developments; for the dedication and acceptance of
land required for schools, parks, playgrounds, and other public uses; for the
preparation of subdivision and other development plans and the procedure for
the submittal thereof to the village and the related public hearing process,
approval and recording of plats of subdivision, when required by and in
compliance with the relevant provisions of this code and the Illinois statutes.
The purpose of this title is also:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, convenience and the
general welfare.
   B.   To facilitate the orderly growth and development of the village by
providing suitable residential, commercial and industrial developments
consistent with the official comprehensive plan.
   C.   To secure a safe traffic circulation system by having a good
relationship between the street system, adjoining developments, and public
facilities.
   D.   To achieve homesites of maximum utility and livability.
   E.   To ensure adequate provisions for water, drainage, sanitary sewer
facilities and other health requirements.
   F.   To secure adequate provisions for roads, recreational and open space
areas, school sites and other public facilities.
   G.   To facilitate the further resubdivision of large tracts into smaller
parcels of land.
   H.   To preserve the character of the village and contiguous unincorporated
territory.
   I.   To preserve the ecological system and the environment.
   J.   To establish standards of design and reasonable procedures for
subdivision and resubdivision and other development of land within the village
and adjacent unincorporated areas which are within the subdivision jurisdiction
of the village.
   K.   To assist land developers and public officials in processing
subdivisions and making other decisions about them.
   L.   To avoid disturbing areas subject to flooding.
   M.   To preserve natural vegetation.
   N.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies that administer and enforce these regulations.
   O.   To help enforce the development standards contained in the other
applicable ordinances of the village. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of these subdivision regulations and in order to carry out its
provisions and intentions, certain words, terms, and phrases shall be deemed to
have the meanings ascribed to them herein.
When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include
the future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is
mandatory and not discretionary.
ACCEPTED PUBLIC STREET: Any street duly accepted in writing by the corporate
authorities of the village for maintenance thereof by the village.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER OR ADMINISTRATION AUTHORITY: The village administrator
or any officer designated by him or her to administer and enforce this title.
(Also see definition of Enforcement Officer.)
ALLEY: A strip of land along the side of or in the rear of properties intended
to provide access to those properties abutting and/or adjacent to said strip of
land.
APPROVED STREET: Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards or
specifications of the village and/or otherwise accepted by the village for
dedication.
BIKE PATH: A designated right of way provided for the specific use of
pedestrians and bicycles.
BOARD OR VILLAGE BOARD: See definition of Corporate Authorities.
BLOCKS: A tract of subdivided land bounded by streets, or by a combination of
streets, public parks, railroad rights of way, or other natural boundaries.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to a lot line set at the closest point of the
principal building, excluding allowable obstructions, to such lot line.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A building line establishing the minimum allowable
distance between a street right of way line or property line and any structure.
COMMISSION: Whenever the word "commission" is used in this title, it shall be
deemed to refer to the plan commission of the village.
COMMUNITY PARK: See definition of Park, Community.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official comprehensive plan, or any geographical or
functional part thereof, as adopted and amended from time to time by the
village, including the official map which is part thereof.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and board of trustees of the village.
COUNTY ENGINEER: Chief administrative official of the Lake County division of
transportation.
CROSSWALK: A strip of land dedicated as public right of way across a block to
be used by pedestrians and/or for underground utilities.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
DEVELOP: See definition of Development Or To Develop.
DEVELOPMENT OR TO DEVELOP: Any subdivision, resubdivision, or any other project
which includes any construction or any installation of site improvements on a
lot or parcel which affects or relates to the need (present or future) for
public improvements and/or which includes and/or may include the installation
of such public improvements.
EASEMENT: A strip of land on or between parcels of land dedicated for use for a
specific purpose or purposes, including, but not limited to, use by the
village, public and/or utilities, and/or the general public, usually shown on a
plat and/or granted by the property owner by a separate easement document,
which shall be recorded in the office of the Lake County recorder of deeds.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: For purposes of this title, the enforcement officer shall
be the village administrator or that village employee or consultant(s)
designated by the village administrator. The enforcement officer of the village
shall also be its plat officer.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer registered as such in the state of Illinois.
FRONTAGE, LOT: The length of all of the property of such lot fronting on a
street, as measured between side lot lines.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A street, often parallel to and providing access to the adjacent
land where direct access to such street is precluded.
FRONTAGE ROAD, REVERSE: A street often parallel to a high volume road and
located behind the adjacent buildings, instead of between the buildings and the
major road.
HEALTH OFFICER: The director of the Lake County health department, or his
designee.
INSPECTOR: The authorized and designated representative of the village
administrator assigned to make detailed inspection(s) of any or all portions of
the work or material thereof.
LOT: A parcel of subdivided land duly recorded.
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision or not
specifically exempted under the terms of these subdivision regulations.
MINIPARK: See definition of Park, Mini.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision containing not more than five (5) lots, and
fronting on an existing improved minor street, and not involving any new street
or road or the extension of the municipal facilities, and not adversely
affecting the development of the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provisions or portion of the official
comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, or these subdivision regulations.
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK: See definition of Park, Neighborhood.
OFFICIAL PLAN: The comprehensive plan, or any geographical or functional part
thereof, as adopted by the village of Lake Villa, indicating the general
locations recommended for streets, parks, public buildings, and other community
development aspects.
OWNER: Any person having legal and equitable title to the land sought to be
subdivided.
PARK, COMMUNITY: An area permanently devoted to recreational uses, containing
or suited for any combination of intense recreational facilities (such as
formal athletic fields, athletic complexes, or swimming pools) or natural
resources for outdoor recreation (such as walking, viewing, sitting,
picnicking, etc.), depending upon site suitability and community need, to serve
several neighborhoods.
PARK, MINI: An area permanently devoted to recreational uses, containing
specialized facilities or natural resources to serve a concentrated or limited
population or specific group, such as tots or senior citizens.
PARK, NEIGHBORHOOD: An area permanently devoted to recreational uses,
containing or suited for intense recreational activities (such as field games,
crafts, playground apparatus area, skating, picnicking, etc.) or natural
resources to serve a neighborhood.
PARKWAY: An unpaved strip of land within the right of way of a street between a
sidewalk and the back of curb or edge of pavement, or if there is no sidewalk,
between the lot line and the back of curb or edge of pavement.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way, however designated, across or within a block for
use by pedestrian traffic, which shall include, but not be limited to,
sidewalks and/or crosswalks.
PERSON: A firm, association, authority, organization, partnership, company or
corporation as well as an individual.
PLAT: A map, drawing, or chart on which the developer's plan of the subdivision
is presented and which he submits for approval and intends to record when in
final form.
PLAT, FINAL: The final plat of the subdivision, including, but not limited to,
plats of consolidation and plats of resubdivision, or the final plan for a
development, with accompanying material, which is submitted to the village for
approval.
PLAT OFFICER: The village's enforcement officer shall be the village's plat
officer.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of subdivision or plan with accompanying
material, upon which the design for the subdivision is presented, and submitted
to the village for approval, but not recording.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: The drawings and documents described in section 11-2-2 of
this title.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT(S): Facilities (present or future) protecting the public
health, safety, and welfare, including, but not limited to, public or private
streets, highways, alleys, public grounds, easements for utilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, and/or pedestrianways and/or bicycle paths, streetlights,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds, stormwater drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection and/or treatment
facilities.
PUBLIC STREET: All major and minor collector streets and all local streets and
cul-de-sacs which are shown on the subdivision plat and dedicated for public
use and accepted by the village or appropriate public body.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land, smaller than a lot, and retained in private
ownership as a means of controlling access to land.
RESUBDIVISION: The relocation of property boundaries, or the reallocation of
property in a recorded subdivision. The vacation of property lines not
accompanied by the relocation of new property lines shall not constitute
resubdivision, but rather, a vacation of the subdivision.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication,
prescription, or condemnation intended to be occupied or occupied by a road,
alley, sidewalk, trail, bicycle path, or similar use(s).
ROAD OR ROADWAY: The paved area within the street right of way available and
intended for vehicle movement, not including private drive aprons.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION: A single-family residential subdivision
of land includes the division of land for single-family residential purposes,
into two (2) or more lots, sites or parcels and may include the dedication or
establishment of a public or private road, highway or street through a parcel
of land.
SITE PLAN: A plan as specified by the village administrator or his designee
that shows all of the existing features and proposed changes to a development
site.
STREET: A vehicularway, whether public or private, which may also serve for all
or part of its width as a way for pedestrian traffic, whether called street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane,
place, alley, mall or otherwise designated.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A continuous roadway through the village linking it to other
villages or cities.
STREET, LOCAL: A street that extends block to block and is not continuous.
STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR: A street which connects local and arterial roadways.
Not always continuous through the village.
STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR: A street which connects local roadways, usually to
major collector streets. Not always continuous through a village or city.
STREET RIGHT OF WAY: All property dedicated or intended for streets.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right of
way of a street.
SUBDIVIDER: Any owner or other person proceeding under these subdivision
regulations to subdivide or develop land.
SUBDIVISION: For the purposes of these development regulations, any condominium
development, planned unit development, and other residential, commercial,
industrial and/or other development on one or more lots, tracts or parcels of
land which affects or relates to the need for public improvements and/or which
includes or may include the installation thereof (present or proposed),
including, but not limited to, any division of, or redivision of, any tract,
parcel, or lot of land, into two (2) or more parts, which shall include
resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process
of subdividing or to the land subdivided. For the purpose of these development
regulations, a subdivision of land includes resubdivision, and/or
consolidations of land.
SUBDIVISION JURISDICTION: Within one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits of the village, unless otherwise provided by an
intergovernmental boundary agreement executed by the village.
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE: The plan is within the limits set by the previously
approved and recorded site capacity and schematic plan, or sketch and residuals
plan. Specifically, the limits for density shall be equal to or lower than
previously approved, for open space ratios shall be equal to or higher than
previously approved, and for the level of resource protection shall be equal to
or higher than that previously approved.
SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS: The superintendent of highways of the county of
Lake.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois.
THOROUGHFARE, SECONDARY: A street which carries traffic from a minor street to
a primary thoroughfare, including the principal entrance streets and
circulation streets of most subdivisions.
TYPE MAP: A map delineating the types of existing vegetation by dominant
species, size and condition.
ZONING OFFICER: The village administrator of the village of Lake Villa is
designated as its zoning officer.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of the village of Lake Villa, and the
official zoning map pertaining thereto as the same may be amended from time to
time. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
Whenever any subdivision or other development of land shall hereafter occur
within the corporate limits of the village or within one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits of the village ("subdivision jurisdiction"),
unless otherwise provided by an existing intergovernmental boundary agreement
executed by the village, the developer thereof or his agent, shall submit to
the village both a preliminary plan therefor and, if applicable, a preliminary
plat of subdivision, and shall thereafter be required to submit a final plan
and, if applicable, a final plat of subdivision to the village. All public
improvements within the corporate limits of the village and within its
subdivision jurisdiction shall be installed in accordance with the design
standards and requirements of this title. Said plans and plats, the proposed
public improvements, and all procedures relating thereto, shall in all
respects, be in substantial compliance with these subdivision regulations set
forth in this title and as otherwise provided in this code, provided, however,
except any subdivision and/or other development of land lying outside of the
village and within one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of
the village, shall also be required to comply with the regulations of the
county in which the property is located whenever said county requirements are
more stringent than the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Compliance Required:
      1.   No landowner may subdivide or plat or otherwise develop any land
within the village or within its subdivision jurisdiction unless the procedures
of this title are followed and the requirements of these development
regulations are met.
      2.   No improvements, such as, but not limited to, sidewalks, water
supply, stormwater drainage, sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service
or lighting, or grading, paving or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be
made within any such subdivision by any owner or owners or his or their agent,
or by any public service corporations at the request of such owner or owners or
his or their agent until the plans for the subdivision and improvements have
been approved by the village engineer and the village board of trustees and the
subdivision plat has been recorded.
      3.   No plat of subdivision shall be valid or recorded, nor any street
improvements made to the land, until the plan(s) of the subdivision or street
improvements shall have been reviewed by the plan commission and approved by
the board of trustees of the village in full compliance with the procedures and
requirements provided in this title.
      4.   No property shall be subdivided in any manner without complying with
the procedures and requirements of this title, and any such subdivision, which
is accomplished by conveyance or otherwise, without complying with said
procedures and requirements, shall be null and void and the subdivider thereof
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this title.
   B.   Sales Prohibited Prior To Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   No owner or agent of the owner of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision or other development shall transfer or sell such parcel
before a final plan and, if applicable, a final plat of subdivision has been
approved in accordance with the terms of these subdivision regulations.
      2.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any such subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given until such subdivision plans have been properly reviewed by the plan
commission and officially approved by the village board of trustees.
   C.   Applicability: These development regulations shall be applicable to:
      1.   All subdivision of land within the corporate limits of the village.
      2.   All resubdivision of land heretofore platted within the corporate
limits of the village.
      3.   All subdivision of land and the resubdivision of land heretofore
platted within the subdivision jurisdiction of the village, except where the
village has a boundary agreement with another municipality or the subdivision
jurisdiction of another municipality overlaps the subdivision jurisdiction of
the village.
         a.   Boundary agreements between the village and other municipalities
will take precedence in determining the village's subdivision jurisdiction for
unincorporated areas;
         b.   If another municipality's subdivision jurisdiction overlaps the
subdivision jurisdiction of the village and there is no boundary agreement that
applies, these development regulations shall be applicable to the territory
from the corporate limits of the village to a line equidistant from its
boundary and the boundary of the other municipality nearest to the village at
any given point on the land.
      4.   All development other than subdivisions or resubdivisions which
affect or relate to the need for public improvements and/or which includes or
may include the installation thereof (present or proposed).
      5.   Any condominium development, any planned unit development, and any
other residential, commercial or industrial building and/or other development
on one or more lots, tracts or parcels of land which affects or relates to the
need for public improvements and/or which includes or may include the
installation thereof (present or proposed).
   D.   Exceptions: These development regulations shall not be applicable to
the following situations, consistent with the definition of a "subdivision" as
set forth in this chapter:
      1.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
(5) acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access and which does not affect, or relate to the need for public
improvements (present or future) and/or which includes or may include the
installation thereof.
      2.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land but excluding any resubdivision of land heretofore
subdivided or platted and which does not affect, involve or relate to the need
for facilities (present or future) protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and/or which includes or may include the installation thereof, and
which does not result in the creation of any additional lots, and which does
not result in creation of any lots or parcels which are nonconforming relative
to the requirements of this title or pursuant to the requirements of the
village of Lake Villa zoning ordinance.
      3.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements or access and
which does not affect, or relate to the need for public improvements (present
or future) and/or which includes or may include the installation thereof.
      4.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access and which does
not affect or relate to the need for public improvements (present or future)
and/or which includes or may include the installation thereof.
      5.   The conveyance of land for a road, street, highway or other public
purposes or grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public
use or instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public
use.
      6.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
      7.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and which does not involve any new streets or
easements of access and which does not affect or relate to the need for public
improvements and/or which includes or may include the installation thereof, and
which does not result in creation of any lots or parcels which are
nonconforming relative to the requirements of this title or pursuant to the
requirements of the village of Lake Villa zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2015-03-02,
3-11-2015)
11-1-6: LEGAL AUTHORITY AND STATUS:
   A.   Applicable Statutes: This title, and the development regulations set
forth herein, are adopted pursuant to the legal authority of the village
provided by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-5, 5/11-12-5.1, 5/11-12-6, 5/
11-12-7, 5/11-12-8, 5/11-12-9, and 5/11-15-1.
   B.   Conflict With Other Instruments: In case of conflict between any part
of these development regulations and any other valid law, ordinance, rule, or
regulation, the most restrictive provisions shall apply in every case.
   C.   Minimum Requirements And Interpretation:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these development regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals,
convenience and general welfare.
      2.   Higher Standards Govern: Where the development regulations imposed
by any provision of this title are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable regulations for the same site imposed by any other provision of
this code or any other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any
kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
      3.   Abrogation: This title is not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant or other private agreement; provided, however, that where the
development regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than any such easements, covenants or other private
agreements, the requirements of this title shall govern and prevail. (Ord.
2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-7: APPROVALS, INTERPRETATIONS, EXCEPTIONS, AND VARIATIONS:
   A.   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the
office of the applicable county recorder of deeds or have any validity, or any
development which constitutes, affects, or is related to the need for public
improvements (present or future) and/or includes or may include the
installation thereof, until it shall have received final approval by resolution
or ordinance of the corporate authorities of the village in the manner
prescribed by this title and the other applicable provisions of this code.
   B.   No land shall hereafter be subdivided or filed for record, nor any
street laid out, nor any public improvements made to the land, nor shall any
development activities commence on the land until the respective final plat of
subdivision and/or the related plans for said development, including for the
public improvements which are part thereof, are approved by action of the
corporate authorities of the village. This approval must be in writing and the
village's written approval placed on the original of the respective final plat
prior to the recording thereof according to the procedure outlined in this
title.
   C.   No lot, tract, parcel of land, or condominium within any such
subdivision or within any other development shall be offered for sale, nor
shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or given until the final
plat therefor and the final plans for the development, if any, shall have been
approved in writing by the corporate authorities of the village.
   D.   No public improvements shall be installed, nor shall any development
activities occur within any such subdivision by any owner or owners or his or
their agent, or by any public service corporation at the request of such owner
or owners or their agent until the respective final plat, if any, and also the
final plans for improvements to such subdivision or other development have been
the subject of review and a recommendation by the village's plan commission and
approval in writing by the corporate authorities of the village.
   E.   Where a tract of land is proposed for subdivision that is part of a
larger, logical subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the
corporate authorities of the village may cause to be prepared, a possible plan
of the entire area for the purpose of providing both the plan commission and
the corporate authorities an aid in evaluating the proposed plat and/or plans.
   F.   All interpretations of this title are reserved to the village's
enforcement officer, its plan commission, and finally, to its corporate
authorities.
   G.   The corporate authorities of the village may grant, in writing,
variations and/or exceptions as set forth herein where there is sufficient
evidence, in its sole opinion, of hardship caused by topographical conditions,
or where any other unique conditions may exist, provided such variations or
exceptions are in substantial compliance with the spirit and intent of the
village's official comprehensive plan, as may be amended from time to time.
   H.   Whenever the areas divided into lots containing larger lots, such as,
for example, one to three (3) acres, and there are indications that such lots
will eventually be resubdivided or redeveloped into smaller building lots,
consideration shall be given to the street and lot arrangement of the original
subdivision so that additional minor streets can be opened which will permit a
logical arrangement of future smaller lots. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-8: REVOCATION OF SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
In addition to imposing any penalties as provided in this title and/or as
otherwise provided in this code, the village is authorized to suspend and/or
revoke any site development permit and/or any other village approval issued by
the village pursuant to this title for any violation of any of the terms and/or
conditions of such permit, and/or for any violation of the provisions of this
title, including, but not limited to, activities such as site development in
such a manner that is materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious
to person, property or the environment in the neighborhood and/or surrounding
areas, and/or a temporary suspension of the respective site development permit
may be imposed effective immediately upon written notification by any
authorized representative of the village to the person and/or entity to whom
the site development permit was issued. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: Violations of the provisions of this title, including, but
not limited to, failure to comply with any of the requirements of this title,
the other applicable provisions of this code, and/or the terms and/or
conditions related to any permit issued by the village, shall be subject to a
mandatory daily fine for each offense.
   B.   Enforcement: The village employee or agent designated by the village
administrator shall be the enforcement officer for purposes of this title. This
title may be enforced by injunction, mandamus, abatement by the village, civil
penalties, and/or any other appropriate actions in law or equity.
   C.   Separate Violations: Each day that each violation of this title exists
and/or continues shall be a separate offense for the purposes of the fines,
penalties and/or remedies imposed by and/or available to the village.
   D.   Violations And Penalties:
      1.   Any person, who shall sell, or offer for sale, or lease any lot,
parcel, or block in any subdivision before complying with all the applicable
requirements of this title, shall be subject to a mandatory fine as specified
from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each lot, parcel, or block, or part thereof so
disposed of, offered for sale, or leased. Each day that violation(s) of this
Title, including but not limited to the sales or offers to sell or lease
continue in violation of this title shall constitute a separate offense, and
shall be subject to the penalties as set forth herein.
      2.   In addition to the foregoing penalty, any person found guilty of
violating any of the provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a mandatory fine as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to
occur for each day upon which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2015-03-
02, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
11-1-10: APPEALS:
   A.   Establishment And Purpose: A process of appeals of the decisions of the
enforcement officer is hereby established to provide appropriate checks and
balances on delegated administrative authority.
   B.   Authority: The corporate authorities of the village shall hear and make
final decisions on all applications for appeals of administrative decisions
made by the enforcement officer.
   C.   Decisions Appealed: Any decisions and/or interpretations of this title
by the enforcement officer can be appealed.
   D.   Application: Appeals shall be filed in accordance with the requirements
of the application for appeal form. Submission materials shall conform to the
requirements as specified on that application. Submission materials shall be
forwarded to the corporate authorities of the village for review.
   E.   Decisions On Appeals: The corporate authorities of the village shall
hear and make a final decision on an appeal at its next available, regularly
scheduled village board meeting. Upon conclusion of such a hearing, the
corporate authorities of the village shall determine whether or not the permit
shall be suspended or revoked.
   F.   Limitations On Appeals: A written application for such appeal shall be
delivered to the village within thirty (30) days of the respective decision(s)
and/or interpretation(s) appealed from. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-1-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this title shall be March 22, 2015. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-
11-2015)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Character Of Development
11-2-2: Procedures For Review Of Plat(s) And Plan(s)
11-2-3: Design Standards
11-2-4: Improvements
11-2-5: Utilities
11-2-6: Tree Removal And Trees And Woodlands Protection
11-2-7: Easements, Reservations, Vacations
11-2-1: CHARACTER OF DEVELOPMENT:
The corporate authorities, the village administrator, and the enforcement
officer shall confer with a developer regarding the type and character of the
proposed development, and, as part of that process, may impose upon the
developer certain minimum conditions and restrictions in order to ensure that
all of the proposed structures are built in substantial compliance with all
applicable regulations and ordinances of the village, and to ensure that the
proposed land use is in compliance with the village's comprehensive plan, as
amended from time to time, in order to maintain the character and value of the
proposed development and of adjoining property. Deed restrictions or covenants
may be included to provide for the creation of a property owners' association
or board of trustees for the proper protection and maintenance of the
development and the related public and/or private improvements in the future
provided, however, that such deed restrictions or covenants shall not contain
reversionary clauses wherein any lot shall return to the developer because of a
violation thereon of the terms of the restrictions or covenants. (Ord. 2015-03-
02, 3-11-2015)
11-2-2: PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF PLAT(S) AND PLAN(S):
   A.   Stages And Specifications: All subdivision plats shall be processed in
three (3) stages leading to approval for recording, except that the second
stage may be waived in the case of minor subdivisions. The three (3) stages are
the concept phase, the preliminary phase and the final phase. All of these
phases will comply with the plan review procedures and submission requirements
on file with the village clerk.
      1.   The Concept Plan: A concept plan, submitted by the developer to the
plan commission at a conference, is intended to familiarize the developer with
requirements; eliminate, wherever possible, major revisions of the preliminary
plat; and classify the subdivision as "major" or "minor". If the plan
commission determines it appropriate, the concept plan shall also be reviewed
and approved by the village planner. Those classified as "minor subdivisions"
may proceed directly to the third or final plat stage.
Prior to the conference the developer shall submit to the enforcement officer
the following:
         a.   A Concept Plan: The subdivider's site concept plan shall show:
            (1)   Boundaries of the property to be subdivided;
            (2)   Land characteristics such as natural drainage, swamp areas,
wooded areas, and ridges;
            (3)   Development characteristics such as surrounding streets,
existing structures and available utilities;
            (4)   Proposed layout of streets, blocks and lots;
            (5)   Proposed location of business, park and other nonresidential
areas;
            (6)   Existing easements and covenants affecting the property.
         b.   A Location Sketch: The subdivider's location sketch shall show
the relationship of the proposed subdivision to traffic arteries, public
transportation, municipal utilities, schools and churches.
      2.   The Preliminary Plat Or Plan: The preliminary plat or plan is a
drawing, when necessary, accompanied by special engineering drawings, on which
final adherence to design standards is based. This plat or plan shall show the
lot and street configuration, as well as the proposed landscape improvements,
and shall conform with the agreements reached in the concept plan conference.
The plat or plan shall be submitted to the plan commission at a regular monthly
meeting, together with a transmittal letter and all applicable fees.
The plat or plan, and all other supporting documents, shall be submitted in ten
(10) copies, and shall be drawn at a scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1"
= 100'), unless a different scale is approved at the concept plan conference.
This plat or plan shall show, or be accompanied by the following information:
         a.   Title And Certificate: Name under which the proposed subdivision
is to be recorded, location and position by quarter- quarter section, section,
township, range, meridian, county and state; names and addresses of
subdividers; graphic scale, north arrow; and the following certificate:
State of Illinois, County of Lake, village of Lake Villa Approved by
          , Village Plat Officer This (        ) day of         , A.D.
          
         b.   Description Of Existing Conditions:
            (1)   Boundary Lines: Complete survey data such as angles,
bearings, dimensions, curve data, etc., shall be shown for the exterior lines
of the subdivision. The error of linear closure of said boundary survey shall
be not greater than one in five thousand (5,000).
            (2)   Easements: Location, width, and purpose of easements and
other existing restrictions, reservations, or covenants.
            (3)   Streets: Name, location, right of way width; also curbs,
gutters, culverts, sidewalks and building setback lines.
            (4)   Utilities: Location and size of sanitary and storm sewers;
fire hydrants; location and size of water mains; location of gas lines,
electric and telephone lines. (If water mains and sewers are not on, or
adjacent to the tract, indicate the distance and direction to, and the size of,
the nearest ones.)
            (5)   Elevations: For land that slopes less than two percent (2%)
show spot elevations at all breaks in grade, along all drainage channels or
swales, and at selected points not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in
all directions. For land that slopes two percent (2%) or more, contours with a
vertical interval of not more than two feet (2') shall be shown. Elevations
shall be U.S. geological survey datum; however, contours shall not be taken
from USGS maps.
            (6)   Physical Conditions: The water elevation at the date of
survey of adjoining lakes, watercourses, marshes and bogs, and areas subject to
inundation, and a graphic representation and notation of the high water marks
of such; wooded areas and isolated preservable trees one foot (1') or more in
diameter.
            (7)   Manmade Features: Houses, barns, and other structures; other
constructed features.
            (8)   Conditions On Adjacent Land: All of the requirements of plat
preparation shall apply equally to the site being subdivided and to all land
within five hundred feet (500') of its boundaries, waiving accuracy
requirements as to scale of features but not as to boundary lines.
            (9)   Location Map: A drawing, one thousand feet (1,000') to five
thousand feet (5,000') per inch, of the township in which the subdivision is
situated, showing the location of the subdivision, and indicating its
relationship to traffic arteries, community facilities, railroads, and other
nonresidential land uses or adverse influence within a radius of two (2) miles.
            (10)   Proposed Public Improvements: Highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract, according to the information received from the plan commission at
the sketch plan conference.
            (11)   Subsurface Conditions: Depth of groundwater unless test pits
are dry at a depth of eight feet (8'); location and results of any tests made
to ascertain subsurface soil and rock conditions.
            (12)   Percolation Tests: Percolation tests data shall be submitted
for all subdivisions to be served by individual sewage disposal systems.
            (13)   Application Form: Preliminary plan application form.
            (14)   Site Capacity Calculations: Site capacity calculations.
            (15)   Natural Resources: Lake County natural resources opinion.
            (16)   Endangered Species Report: Illinois department of commerce,
endangered species report (if required by another agency).
            (17)   Archaeological Survey: Archaeological survey (if required by
other agency).
            (18)   Phase One Environmental Audit: Phase one environmental audit
(if required or otherwise available). At the election of the subdivider, this
item may be deferred to the final plat approval stage.
            (19)   Wetland Reports: All correspondence or reports relating to
wetlands, such as U.S. army corps of engineers and IDOT division of water
resources.
            (20)   Traffic Management Studies: All correspondence and reports
relating to traffic management such as traffic studies, or correspondence to or
from IDOT or Lake County department of transportation.
            (21)   Stormwater Detention Calculations: Stormwater detention
calculations.
            (22)   Percolation Tests: Percolation tests if on site sewage
disposal systems are to be utilized.
            (23)   Preliminary Plat Or Plan Requirements: Preliminary plats or
plans shall include the following:
               (A)   Preliminary plat or plan.
               (B)   Preliminary utility plan.
               (C)   Existing natural resource plan.
               (D)   Natural resources protection plan.
               (E)   Preliminary landscaping plan.
            (24)   Water Study Report: Water study report demonstrating
adequate water supply.
            (25)   Fiscal Impact Study: Fiscal impact study, if required by the
plan commission.
         c.   Proposals Of The Subdivider:
            (1)   Name Of Subdivision: The subdivision name shall be original
and not duplicate, or be substantially similar to, any existing Lake County
subdivision.
            (2)   Streets: Unduplicated names, right of way and roadway widths,
similar data for alleys, if any.
            (3)   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
            (4)   Lot Lines: Location and dimensions.
            (5)   Sites: Location and use of any site to be used for other than
single-family residential.
            (6)   Setback: Minimum building setback lines.
            (7)   Site Data: A tabulation of gross area, street area, other
dedicated area, net subdivided area, number of lots and linear feet of street.
            (8)   Elevations: Proposed contours of the finished subdivision,
where different from existing contours, in the same detail used for existing
elevations.
         d.   Engineering Plans And Drawings:
            (1)   Engineer: Whenever improvements covered by this subsection
are required in the development of a subdivision, an engineer shall prepare all
plans and specifications.
         e.   Utilities: Where the preliminary plat contains utility easements,
the plat shall be approved by an authorized employee of the utility company
attesting to the suitability of said easements for the purpose shown.
         f.   Review Agencies: Immediately upon the filing of a preliminary
plat or plan, the plat officer shall forward one copy to each of the following:
            (1)   Village zoning officer.
            (2)   Village engineer.
            (3)   Health officer (where applicable).
            (4)   Village planner.
   Each of these officers shall review the plat or plan for compliance with the
applicable portions of the village's subdivision regulations and other
applicable village ordinances. A written report recommending approval or
disapproval and giving the reasons therefor shall be sent to the plan
commission within twenty (20) days.
         g.   Preliminary Approval: The plan commission shall approve or
disapprove the application for preliminary plat or plan approval within ninety
(90) days from the date of filing the application or the filing by the
applicant of the last item of required supporting documents, whichever date is
later, unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
            (1)   When the preliminary plat or plan has been acted upon by the
plan commission, it shall be referred to the village board of trustees. If the
plan commission approves the plat or plan it shall so indicate on the plat, and
if it disapproves such plat or plan it shall furnish the board and the
applicant a written statement setting forth the reason for disapproval and
specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed plat or plan
fails to conform to this title and the official comprehensive plan, and with
the intent of the village's comprehensive plan. The board shall accept or
reject said plat or plan within thirty (30) days after its regular stated
meeting following the action of the plan commission.
            (2)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat or plan by the board,
the following notice of approval shall be stamped upon five (5) prints thereof,
and required signatures affixed:
   NOTICE OF APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT OR PLAN
   Notice is hereby given that the preliminary plat or plan of a subdivision
shown hereon has received approval by the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Lake Villa, Illinois, and upon compliance by the subdivider with requirements
of qualifications governing the approval of preliminary plats or plans and with
other revisions and stipulations that may be required, the Board will receive
the final plat or plan for consideration when submitted by the subdivider in
such form and with such time as required by this ordinance.
The Board of Trustees of the Village of Lake Villa.
Date                   
         By:    
          Mayor
         Attest:    
          Clerk
      3.   The Final Plat: A record of the subdivision as surveyed in the field
is the final plat. It shows property lines and other dimensions important to
the subdivider in selling lots, and to the public in keeping records of street
lines, easements, and utility locations. Normally, approval will be automatic
if the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat. Upon determining
to his satisfaction that the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary
plat, the enforcement officer shall sign the plat and submit it to the mayor
and village clerk for signature. Countersigning by the mayor and village clerk
shall constitute final approval and authorize the recording of the final plat.
Recording of the final plat shall authorize the issuance of building permits,
but does not constitute acceptance of proffered or required dedications.
         a.   Conditions For Disapproval: Disapproval is warranted by, but not
limited to, the following conditions:
            (1)   The final plat is not in conformance with the preliminary
plat,
            (2)   More than one year has elapsed since preliminary plat
approval.
         b.   Staged Development: Submission of a final plat covering only a
portion of the area covered by a preliminary plat may be permitted after
consideration of the effect on the continuity of roads, utilities, and
services. Validity of the preliminary plat may be extended to one year from the
date of final approval of any portion thereof.
         c.   Plat Form And Content: The final plat shall be drawn in
waterproof black (india) ink on tracing cloth, on mylar, or their equivalents.
Permitted page sizes shall be as follows: thirty six inches by thirty inches
(36" x 30") or twenty inches by thirty inches (20" x 30"). Other sizes will not
be accepted. Scale shall be one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger.
Variation in scale may be allowed when determined by the enforcement officer to
be necessary for a proper exhibit of the subdivision. When more than one sheet
is used for any plat, they shall be numbered consecutively, and each sheet
shall contain a notation showing the whole number of sheets in the plat, and
its relation to the other sheets (i.e., sheet 1 of 3 sheets). Linear dimensions
shall be given in feet and decimals thereof. The final plat shall show on the
face thereof:
            (1)   The name of the subdivision;
            (2)   The location and position of the subdivision indicated in
each of the following ways:
               (A)   By quarter-quarter section, section, township, range,
meridian, county, and state;
               (B)   By distance and bearings from true north or angles with
reference to a corner or corners established in the United States public land
survey;
               (C)   By a written legal description of the exterior boundaries
of the land as surveyed and divided;
            (3)   The top of a plat to be oriented north, and the plat to
contain a north arrow;
            (4)   A graphic scale;
            (5)   The date of preparation;
            (6)   The description and location of all survey monuments;
            (7)   Survey data sufficient to reproduce any line or reestablish
any monument in the subdivision;
            (8)   A graphic presentation of all streets, alleys, blocks,
parcels, and public grounds into which the land is divided and of all easements
and rights of way;
            (9)   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks,
lots, parcels, public grounds, easements, and rights of way, or enough
information so that the length of these lines can be derived by simple
calculation; where a boundary line is an arc of a circle, the radius and the
length of the arc shall be shown;
            (10)   The width of all streets, alleys, easements, and rights of
way;
            (11)   A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines
on all lots and parcels, and a notation of the distance between such lines and
the street right of way line; in no case shall the setback line be less than
that required by the Lake Villa zoning ordinance;
            (12)   The area of each lot or parcel containing one acre or more;
            (13)   Consecutive letters on all blocks and consecutive numbers on
all lots throughout the plat;
            (14)   The name of each street, printed on the graphic
representation of each street, and an appropriate label designating all other
easements, rights of way, setback lines, dedications, and reservations (e.g.,
"Dedicated For Park Purposes" or "Reserved For Public School Site");
            (15)   The abutting street lines of all adjoining subdivisions,
shown in their correct location by broken lines;
            (16)   The water elevation of adjoining lakes or streams at the
date of survey and a graphic representation, as well as a notation of, the high
water marks of such lakes or streams; if any portion of the land within a
subdivision shown on any final plat is subject to inundation or flood hazard by
stormwater, such fact and portion shall be clearly shown on the final plat by a
prominent note on each sheet of such plat whereon any such portion shall be
shown;
            (17)   Covenants and restrictions;
            (18)   All required certificates as specified below;
            (19)   All necessary engineering plans and specifications, for all
public or common improvements, prepared by an Illinois licensed engineer, shall
be submitted in triplicate to the plat officer, duly signed, and bearing the
engineer's seal, which shall include the following:
               (A)   Plans and specifications of street construction, including
centerline profile of each street with a typical cross section of the roadway.
The street plan shall show the location of drainage structures and their size.
The profile shall be shown to a scale of one inch to fifty feet (1" = 50')
horizontal and one inch to five feet (1" = 5') vertical. (Standard federal aid
sheets are preferred.)
               (B)   Plans, details, specifications and cost estimates of
proposed water distribution systems and of proposed water supply facilities.
               (C)   Plans, details, specifications and cost estimates of
sewerage systems.
               (D)   Supplementary plans and drawings, when required by the
plat officer or village engineer, shall be provided, when necessary for
adequate review, when unusual site considerations or other factors are
involved, which mandate the need for additional information. The plat officer
shall advise the subdivider by letter of any such additional requirements.
               (E)   No final plat shall be approved, signed, or recorded,
unless and until the village engineer has reviewed and given his written
approval for the engineering plans and specifications, and the final plat;
            (20)   In each subdivision, which is to be developed in separate
phases, the final plat for each phase shall contain a resource protection
schedule, which sets forth the applicable resource protection requirements, as
required by the village's zoning ordinance or such other ordinance as is
applicable to the development, for the entire development, as well as for the
particular phase, in the following form, or as may be modified from time to
time by the village board:
Resource Protection Schedule
           Protected       Provided In Prior
Item Total Required Actual Phases            Provided This Phase To Be Provided
Resource Protection Schedule
                            Protected       Provided In  Provided This To Be
Item                  Total Required Actual Prior Phases Phase         Provided

Acreage                                                            
         Existing                                                  
Wetlands (100%)
         Mitigated*                                                
Floodplains (100%)                                                 
Mature woodlands                                                   
(70%)
Young woodlands (40%)                                              
Steep slopes (30%+)                                                
Drainageways (40%)                                                 
Park land                                                          
* Required per                                   :1 mitigation rate.
 
This resource protection schedule applies to the property legally described as
follows: (insert legal description for entire subdivision, not just the phase).
         d.   Certificates Required: The application for approval of the final
plat shall be accompanied by the following final plat certificates, duly
processed and signed, using waterproof black (india) ink. The required
certificates and the exact wording of certificates shall be as set forth in
section 11-5-3, "Appendix C; Plat Signature Blocks", of this title.
         e.   Certificate Of County Superintendent Of Highways: A certificate
of the Lake County superintendent of highways shall also be required if the
subdivision is to have direct access off a road under the jurisdiction of Lake
County.
         f.   Certificate Of Illinois Department Of Transportation: A
certificate of the Illinois department of transportation or letter of approval
shall also be required if the subdivision is to have direct access off a road
under the jurisdiction of the Illinois department of transportation.
   B.   Fees: At the time the preliminary plat is submitted, the subdivider
shall pay a separate, nonrefundable review and processing fee payable to the
village as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Code.
   C.   Recording: The developer shall submit the approved final plat to the
Lake County recorder for recording within thirty (30) days of approval. Said
final plat shall become the property of the county of Lake. The developer shall
notify the enforcement officer of the date of recordation and he shall supply
the enforcement officer with two (2) true and exact copies of the plat as
recorded within ten (10) days of recordation.
   D.   Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy:
      1.   Building permits shall not be issued until the zoning officer has
been notified by the enforcement officer that the final plat has been approved
and recorded.
      2.   Certificates of occupancy shall not be issued until the zoning
officer has been notified by the plat officer that the required improvements
have been completed and approved. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-
12-03, 12-2-2024)
11-2-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Conformity To Plans: All subdivisions shall conform to these
subdivision regulations, the village of Lake Villa zoning ordinance, all
applicable regulations relative to public improvements, and to all other
applicable ordinances, resolutions and plans of the village and/or such other
applicable state or federal agency having jurisdiction thereof.
      2.   Natural Features: In all subdivisions due regard shall be given to
the preservation of natural features such as large trees, water sources,
historical and similar community assets, which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and value to the property.
   B.   Streets:
      1.   Layout: The layout of streets in a subdivision plan shall conform to
existing regulations and policies and shall be based on thorough consideration
of:
         a.   Topography and drainage,
         b.   Public convenience and safety,
         c.   Existing street pattern,
         d.   Future circulation needs of nearby lands,
         e.   Proposed uses of the land being subdivided,
         f.   Need for extending streets to the property lines of the tract
being subdivided to provide access to abutting properties.
      2.   Rights Of Way: Except as otherwise approved by the corporate
authorities of the village, street right of way widths shall comply with the
following table:
Street highways                   120 - 150 feet
Major county highways             100 - 120 feet
Other county or township highways 80 feet
Primary thoroughfares             72 - 80 feet
Secondary thoroughfares           66 feet
Minor streets                     60 feet
Marginal access streets           40 feet
Alleys, commercial or industrial  30 feet
Alleys, residential               20 feet
 
      3.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so designed as to discourage
high speed, or through traffic.
      4.   Boundary Streets: Streets shall not be laid out on the boundary of a
subdivision. Exceptions to this may be permitted where the enforcement officer
finds that such streets are desirable for further expansion or where such
streets will conform to the existing street system.
      5.   Intersections: Street intersections with primary thoroughfares shall
be limited to not more than one per quarter mile unless topographic and
physical conditions require a lesser distance. Street intersections shall be at
right angles. Where unusual conditions exist, the plat officer may permit
intersections of less than ninety degrees (90°) but not less than sixty degrees
(60°). In all cases street intersections and junctions shall be laid out so as
to facilitate the safe flow of traffic. In no case shall two (2) junctions be
offset less than one hundred twenty five feet (125').
      6.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall be not more than five hundred feet
(500') in length measured along the centerline from the centerline of the
street of origin to the center of the turnaround, and each shall have a
terminus generally circular in shape, with a diameter of one hundred twenty
feet (120') and a center on, or within thirty feet (30') of, the cul-de-sac
centerline.
      7.   Marginal Access Streets: Wherever a subdivision borders on or
contains the right of way of a limited access highway, a railroad or a utility
right of way, a street may be required approximately parallel to, and on either
side of, such right of way for a distance suitable to service such uses as
front thereon.
      8.   Half Streets: Half streets shall not be permitted except to complete
an existing half street which is dedicated and accepted.
      9.   Reserve Strips: Reserve ("spite" or "devil") strips controlling
access to streets shall not be permitted. Streets roughly paralleling the
subdivision boundary shall be located either on that boundary or not less than
one lot depth from said boundary. All streets intended to provide the
subdivision with future means of ingress and egress shall extend to the
subdivision boundary.
   C.   Blocks:
      1.   Design: The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined
with due regard for the following:
         a.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the types of use contemplated;
         b.   Zoning requirements as to lot size and dimensions;
         c.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic;
         d.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      2.   Length: No block shall exceed one thousand four hundred feet
(1,400') in length except where required by unusual topographic conditions, nor
shall they be less than four hundred feet (400') in length.
      3.   Crosswalks: Where blocks exceed eight hundred feet (800') in length,
or where orientation of pedestrian and/or bicycle circulation requirements
indicate, crosswalks may be required. Such crosswalks shall be not less than
twenty feet (20') in width.
   D.   Lots:
      1.   Dimensions: Lot dimensions and area shall be not less than the
requirements of the Lake Villa zoning ordinance.
      2.   Frontage: All lots shall front directly on an improved public
street. Lots adjoining expressways and major thoroughfares shall be provided
with marginal access streets or front on an interior street. Lots shall have a
width at the street right of way line and rear lot line not less than the sum
of the side yards as provided in the village's zoning ordinance. An indication
shall appear on the final plat where access is prohibited.
      3.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the
street line or substantially so.
      4.   Deep Lots: Lots abutting an expressway, or major thoroughfare, a
railroad, utility right of way or other inharmonious use shall have a width or
a depth of twenty feet (20') in excess of the typical interior lot in the same
subdivision. A planting screen easement, across which there shall be no right
of access, may be required on such deep lots.
      5.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall have sufficient
extra width to permit appropriate building setback from, and orientation to,
both streets. A minimum side yard restriction of ten feet (10') shall be shown
on all lots adjoining a pedestrianway.
      6.   Building Sites: Every lot shall contain a suitable building site. In
zones providing for a lot area of forty thousand (40,000) square feet or more,
twenty five percent (25%) of the lot area therein may consist of uninhabitable
lands, marshes or floodplain. However, where part of a lot may become subject
to flooding, minimum floor elevation shall be required.
   E.   Easements:
      1.   Utility Easements:
         a.   Easements shall be provided for utility service. They shall be
ten feet (10') wide and be established where practicable at the rear of each
lot and along such other lot lines as to provide continuity of alignment from
block to block.
         b.   All utility distribution lines for telephone and electric service
shall be installed underground within easements and dedicated public ways. All
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public. The installation of such facilities shall be made in compliance
with applicable orders, rules and regulations of the Illinois commerce
commission now or hereafter effective, and the owner or subdivider of any
property to be served from such underground installations shall be responsible
for compliance with the rules and regulations, now or hereafter effective and
filed with said commission pursuant to the Illinois public utilities act of any
public utility whose services will be required with respect to the provision of
such underground facility.
      2.   Drainage Easements: When a subdivision is traversed by an
established stream, established drainageway or channel, there shall be provided
a stormwater easement or drainage right of way conforming substantially with
the course of same. The location, width, alignment and improvement of such
easement shall be subject to the approval of the plan commission provided that
such easement shall be not less than twenty feet (20') in width. Where ditch
drainage is used in lieu of storm sewers, as may be permitted herein, the
easement shall be of sufficient width to allow future construction of a storm
sewer main adequate to carry the ultimate runoff of the watershed as determined
by current hydrological records. The area of any public way immediately
adjacent to the ditch shall be taken into consideration. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-
11-2015)
11-2-4: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Purpose: It is deemed necessary and essential to require and control
the provision and installation of improvements when property is subdivided and
developed, in order to:
         a.   Ensure conformity to the statutes governing the subdivision of
land in the state of Illinois;
         b.   Cause the installation of utilities and public service facilities
necessary to serve the property developed;
         c.   Provide for the current financing of said facilities;
         d.   Spread the costs of required improvements upon the property
benefited;
         e.   Prevent the dissipation or the improper use of public funds in
providing these improvements or maintaining faulty installation;
         f.   Protect the living standards, public safety, and the common
welfare of residents within and without the subdivision.
      2.   Qualifications Of Contractors: The developer shall file with the
village a list of all contractors and subcontractors who are to participate in
the construction of public improvements. Such contractors and subcontractors
shall be subject to disqualification by reason of faulty performance of prior
construction work done in the village.
      3.   Time Of Construction: All improvements required herein shall be
completely installed within two (2) years of final plat approval. The
subdivider shall post a letter of credit or other surety in form approved by
the village attorney guaranteeing the installation of these improvements. The
posting of the letter of credit or other surety shall be a necessary
prerequisite to final plat approval.
      4.   Sequence Of Construction: All underground utilities, sanitary
sewers, and storm sewers installed in streets, alleys, service roads, or
highways shall be constructed or installed prior to the surfacing of such
streets. Service connections to such underground utilities and sewers shall be
extended to the property line of each lot so as to obviate disturbing the
surface improvements in such public ways when service connections are later
made. Where underground utilities are located in the parkway adjacent to the
paved roadway, service connections to properties across such roadway shall only
be made by drilling under the pavement in such a way that surfacing is not
disturbed or weakened.
      5.   Debris Removal: The subdivider shall clean and maintain all public
ways, sewers, and drains free from debris and trash, or other extraneous
material, prior to acceptance and at such other times during construction as
the village superintendent of public works may deem necessary to prevent the
creation of a public nuisance.
   B.   Modification Of Design Of Improvements During Construction: During the
course of inspections, the appropriate village inspector will especially note
any circumstances which entail departures in the "as built" improvements from
the plans and specifications as approved, such as an unforeseen difficulty of
drainage, groundwater, poor subsoil, unstable fill material, or unconventional
or faulty practices of contractors or subcontractors. Whenever such departures
are likely to cause either a lower ultimate level of performance or a higher
construction cost than could reasonably have been anticipated, he shall prepare
a report on his findings in the situation and promptly forward copies to the
president and board of trustees and to the enforcement officer.
   C.   "As Built" Plans: After completion of all public improvements and prior
to final acceptance of said improvements, the subdivider shall make, or cause
to be made, a plan showing the actual location and elevation of all valves,
manholes, stubs, sewer and water mains, and other improvements. This plan shall
be an electronic submittal, CADD based, coordinated with the village to be
incorporated in the village's GPS/GIS system. The presentation of this plan
shall be a condition of final acceptance of the improvements and release of the
surety bond assuring their completion. This plan shall become the property of
the village.
   D.   Policy On The Oversizing Of Improvements: Whenever necessary, to
conform to an overall plan or otherwise to protect or promote the public
interest, oversize improvements may be required of the subdivider; however, the
excess cost resulting from the requirement of an oversize improvement shall be
subject to a reasonable recapture ordinance to benefit the subdivision.
   E.   Monuments:
      1.   Preservation Of Existing Monuments: All United States, state, county
or other official bench marks, monuments, or triangulation stations in or
adjacent to the subdivision shall be preserved. When a proposed improvement in
a subdivision makes necessary the moving of bench marks, monuments, or
stations, the authority having jurisdiction shall be notified and given
sufficient time to take appropriate action.
      2.   Placement Of New Monuments: Permanent monuments shall be erected at
all street corners and all points where street lines intersect the exterior
lines of the subdivision and at all lot corners, block corners, angles in the
lot lines, and points of beginning and ending of curves.
      3.   Monument Materials: Permanent monuments shall be of galvanized iron
pipe not less than three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and not less than
twenty four inches (24") in length; or of stone or concrete not less than four
inches (4") in diameter and not less than twenty four inches (24") in length.
In no case shall thin wall pipe or electrical conduit be permitted.
   F.   Grading: Where it is proposed to alter ground elevations more than two
feet (2'), proposed, as well as existing, contours shall be shown on the
contour map. Where topsoil is removed during the course of grading or
construction, it shall be redistributed evenly to a depth of at least four
inches (4"). All exposed areas shall be reseeded or sodded to prevent erosion.
   G.   Improvements Required:
      1.   Streets:
         a.   Subdivisions containing lots less than forty thousand (40,000)
square feet in area:
            (1)   Primary thoroughfares shall be improved with bituminous
pavement and concrete curb, gutter, and median strip. The overall width shall
be not less than fifty two feet (52') face to face of curb, including a median
strip of not less than four feet (4').
            (2)   Secondary thoroughfares shall be improved with a bituminous
pavement and concrete curb and gutter. The overall width shall be not less than
thirty six feet (36') face to face of curb.
            (3)   Minor streets shall be improved with a bituminous pavement
and concrete curb and gutter. The overall width shall be not less than twenty
seven feet (27') face to face of curb.
            (4)   All surfacing of streets shall be done in at least two (2)
stages with the secondary and/or final stage to occur within twelve (12) months
after the primary surfacing.
            (5)   Entrances to all subdivisions shall have a median and shall
be illuminated.
         b.   Subdivisions containing lots not less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet in area:
            (1)   Primary and secondary thoroughfares shall be as above.
            (2)   Local streets shall be improved with a bituminous surface
treatment not less than twenty two feet (22') in width on a gravel or crushed
stone base not less than twenty four feet (24') in width, with not less than
thirty feet (30') in width from shoulder line to shoulder line.
         c.   Where proposed subdivision lots front on only one side of a
public road, the subdivider shall be responsible for one-half (1/2) of such
road to be improved. The remaining improvements shall be completed in the
manner described in subsection D of this section. Whenever land adjacent to an
existing public street is subdivided with lots facing thereon, and said street
is not improved to a standard as high as that required for an interior street
of similar character, the subdivider may be required to improve said public
street, but in no case shall the required expenditure for such improvement
exceed that required for a similar interior street. Any improvement of an
existing street shall be subject to the approval of the public authority having
jurisdiction.
         d.   Street profile, plans and cross sections for all subdivision
streets shall be prepared by an engineer licensed in the state of Illinois in
accordance with the requirements of this code, including, but not limited to,
those standards referenced in section 11-5-1 of this title, appendix A, and the
engineer, as agent for the subdivider, or his contractor, shall be responsible
for establishing the proper lines and grades for all earthwork and drainage.
         e.   At least one street of full width shall be provided to furnish
the subdivision with access to an existing improved public street. Said access
street shall be improved by the subdivider in accordance with the standards
appropriate to its function, whether or not it lies partly, or entirely,
outside the subdivision.
      2.   Storm Drainage:
         a.   The storm drainage improvements shall conform to the system
designed and established by the engineer and approved by the village engineer.
Computations may be required for the entire drainage basin of which the
subdivision is a part. The design and construction of such improvements shall
be in accordance with the requirements of this code, including, but not limited
to, those standards referenced in section 11-5-1 of this title, appendix A.
         b.   In residential subdivisions containing lots less than forty
thousand (40,000) square feet in area, and in all business and industrial
subdivisions, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed and
installation shall be completed and approved by the village engineer prior to
the placement of any surfacing material.
         c.   Special consideration shall be given to the avoidance of problems
which may arise from stormwater runoff onto adjacent properties. All storm
drainage shall be conducted and/or connected to an approved outfall.
      3.   Sump Pumps: Sump pump service stubs extending from the public storm
sewer system shall be installed to receive subsoil drain pump discharge from
each lot fronting on a street having curbs and gutters, connecting to a storm
sewer of the subdivision drainage system. Service stubs may be installed at the
side line of lots in residential subdivisions in such a manner that two (2)
adjacent lots may be served by a single stub. All stubs shall extend one foot
(1') inside of the lot line and shall be of four inch (4") diameter concrete
sewer pipe or three inch (3") diameter drain, waste and vent, PVC or ABS
plastic pipe schedule 40 and shall have not less than three feet (3') of earth
cover for protection against freezing or as approved by the village. Where a
public storm sewer is installed in a rear or side yard easement on or adjoining
a lot, the service stub may be extended from such storm sewer to any point on
the lot within one foot (1') of the easement line.
      4.   Culverts And Bridges: Adequate drainage structures shall be
provided. The design, installation and construction of drainage structures
shall comply with the requirements of this code, including, but not limited to,
those standards referenced in section 11-5-1 of this title, appendix A.
      5.   Curbs And Gutters:
         a.   In all subdivisions where underground storm drainage systems are
required or proposed, curbs and gutters shall be provided.
         b.   In subdivisions of lots under forty thousand (40,000) square
feet, concrete curbs and gutters shall be provided.
      6.   Sidewalks And Pedestrianways:
         a.   In all subdivisions where lots are less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet, sidewalks shall be provided by the subdivider or
developer along both sides of all streets and cul- de-sacs. The village board
of trustees also may require that sidewalks and/or pedestrianways shall be
provided by the subdivider or developer elsewhere than as required above, where
the village board considers such improvements necessary to the public safety
due to an anticipated concentration of pedestrian and/or bicycle traffic.
         b.   Sidewalks and pedestrianways which form part of a system of
sidewalks and/or bicycle paths as required above shall be improved in
accordance with the requirements of this code, including, but not limited to,
those standards referenced in section 11-5-1 of this title, appendix A.
         c.   Inspections shall be performed by the village engineer.
         d.   Crosswalks shall be provided at all school locations. The village
engineer may also require that crosswalks be provided elsewhere when deemed
necessary for the public safety due to anticipated pedestrian traffic.
         e.   Where pedestrianways are provided, they shall be designed and
installed at the subdivider's or developer's expense in accordance with "IDOT
Bureau Of Design And Environment Manual", chapter 17 on bicycle and pedestrian
accommodations, as amended from time to time, which chapter 17 shall constitute
the minimum standards for such improvements.
      7.   Street Signs: All required street signs shall be installed prior to
subdivision acceptance. Signs to be provided include: a) stop signs at every
primary intersection, b) street name signs on separate twelve foot (12') poles
at each intersection, c) dead end signs at each cul-de-sac, and d) speed limit
signs on each collector, primary and arterial street. Yield signs may be
substituted in lieu of stop signs when approved by the village engineer. All
signs shall conform to the applicable published state and federal standards.
The location of all signs shall be approved by the village engineer.
STREET SIGN SPECIFICATIONS
                  U-channel galvanized 2 pound 8-gauge 12' for all but street
Post              name signs which shall be mounted on round galvanized 12' x 2
                  3/8" O.D., 21/4" I.D.
                  6" flat reflective 0.125-gauge with 4" white reflective
Street name signs series "C" letters with 12" brackets on large name signs and
                  5" brackets on all other signs
Stop signs        30" x 30" diamond grade
No outlet signs   24" x 24" high intensity
Speed limit signs 24" x 30" high intensity
All other signs   High intensity
No signs on bracket allowed on streetlight poles unless approved by the
director of public works
All signs         Height 7' from top of curb to bottom of sign
No other signs allowed on stop or speed limit signposts
 
      8.   Streetlights: In all subdivisions street lighting shall be provided
throughout the subdivision by the subdivider. Streetlight standards shall be
installed within the street parkways and shall be served by appropriate wiring
with connections to a power supply of the Commonwealth Edison Company. A
standard shall be located at each street intersection, at the turnaround of
each cul-de-sac, and elsewhere at intervals of not more than three hundred feet
(300') alternating on both sides of the roadway. Streets with medians shall
have a standard with two (2) luminaires. Light poles shall be mounted on twenty
four inch (24") diameter concrete bases extending to the frost line. Wiring
shall be underground, grounded and encased in one inch (1") diameter conduit.
Each pole shall have a one hundred ten (110) volt GFI outlet mounted in the
base. Streetlight standards, luminaires, lamps and wiring shall be Holophane
glass Washington postlite #WAU15AHPMTB3B4 HP S-67516 on fourteen foot five inch
(14'5") Holophane Wadsworth black posts #W14F5/17-CA/BK for standards with one
luminaire. Standards with two (2) luminaires shall be Holophane #WAU15AHPMTB3B4
HP S-67516 on Holophane Wadsworth black posts with cross arm #W14F5/17-CA/BK-
PCP36-CAIBK. Streetlights shall not be located on the same corner as a fire
hydrant. Lighting control shall be by photocell. Lighting color shall be
yellow. Junction boxes shall be located at all splices.
      9.   Water Supply Facilities:
         a.   Central Water Systems: All subdivisions within the corporate
limits of the village of Lake Villa and all other subdivisions with lots of
less than one-half (1/2) acre in area, shall have an interconnected water
distribution system supplying all lots with water from a source approved by the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supply.
Where such a water supply system is not provided in subdivisions with lots of
one-half (1/2) acre or more in area, outside the corporate limits of the
village of Lake Villa, conclusive evidence shall be presented by the
subdivider, on the basis of suitable tests and surveys, that an adequate
underground water supply is readily available for development at the individual
lots.
         b.   Water Main Requirements: Water mains shall be not less than eight
inches (8") in diameter and shall be arranged so as to avoid dead ends. Shutoff
valves shall be provided at each branch main connection, and elsewhere as
required, to permit adequate sectionalizing for maintenance purposes. Valves
within pavement shall be in booted vaults. Valves outside of pavements shall
have risers. Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire system at
intervals not exceeding four hundred feet (400'). A house service connection
shall be provided at the centerline of each lot, extending to within one foot
(1') of the property lines, before roadway pavement is constructed. Materials,
system arrangement, and details of design shall be subject to the approval of
the village engineer in accordance with the requirements of this code,
including, but not limited to, those standards referenced in section 11-5-1 of
this title, appendix A.
            (1)   Individual Water Systems: Where central water systems cannot
be provided according to subsection G9a of this section, individual private
water systems may be permitted, provided such water systems meet all
requirements of state and county health agencies.
         c.   Water Towers: Any water tower which provides potable water for
residential consumption or commercial purposes shall have clearly painted on
the bulb the colors, words, and symbols approved in advance by the village
board. All water towers shall have cathodic protection and have top warning
lights with one hundred ten (110) volt outlets and mounting rail.
         d.   Water Systems: All water systems shall be designed on the basis
of three hundred (300) gallons per day per population equivalent (PE).
      10.   Sanitary Sewage Facilities:
         a.   All subdivisions containing lots of less than forty thousand
(40,000) square feet in area shall have a system of sanitary sewers serving
each lot, connected to the village sewerage system. All other subdivisions
shall also have such sewage disposal facilities where standard seepage tests or
other investigations indicate that the ground in the subdivision is unsuitable
for individual sewage disposal facilities dependent upon seepage of the
effluent into the soil.
         b.   Sanitary and storm sewer systems shall not be combined. Sewer
mains with house service stubs to each lot shall be installed prior to the
construction of street pavements. Service stubs shall be installed at the
centerline of each lot and shall extend to within one foot (1') of the front
lot line. Materials, system arrangement, and details of design shall be subject
to the approval of the village engineer in accordance with the requirements of
this code, including, but not limited to, those standards referenced in section
11-5-1 of this title, appendix A.
         c.   In subdivisions not required to install community sewage
collection systems under subsection G10a of this section, individual sewage
disposal systems may be permitted.
         d.   Regardless of location, lot size, or number of lots, a
subdivision shall be disapproved where the health officer finds that the
drainage, soil conditions, disposal facilities, or other conditions will tend
to produce health problems.
      11.   Aerators: All detention ponds deeper than thirty inches (30") shall
be equipped with a foundation type aerator. They shall be sized on the basis of
two (2) horsepower per acre. Spacing of the aerators shall be such that a
ripple effect occurs on fifty percent (50%) of the pond area at all times. Pond
fingers shall have separate aerators.
   H.   Dedication Of Park Sites Or Payment Of Fees In Lieu Thereof: As a
condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision of any block, lot or
sublot or any part thereof or any piece or parcel of land or of a final plat of
a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer will be required to
dedicate land for park and recreational purposes, to serve the immediate and
future needs of the residents of the development, or cash contribution in lieu
of actual land dedication, or a combination of both, at the option of the
village in accordance with the following criteria and formula:
      1.   Criteria For Requiring Park And Recreation Land Dedication:
         a.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The ultimate density of a
proposed development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be fifteen (15) acres of land per one
thousand (1,000) of ultimate population in accordance with the following
classifications:
PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS
 
Type Of Recreation Area        Size Range          Acres/1,000 People
Minipark (plat lot)            1 - 1.7 acres       1
Neighborhood park (playground) 3.5 - 20 acres      3
Community park                 25 acres or greater 11
                              Total:              15
 
         b.   Location: A central location which will serve equally the entire
development is most desirable. In large developments these sites can be located
throughout the development according to established standards for park area
distances. Additional standards may be determined by the village board as
adopted from time to time.
         c.   Credit For Private Open Spaces And Recreation Areas:
            (1)   When subdividers or developers provide their own open space
for recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand
for local public recreational services. Depending on the size of the
development, a portion of the park and recreation area in subdivisions or
planned unit developments may at the option of the board of trustees be
provided in the form of "private" open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open
space. The extent of same shall be determined by the board of trustees, based
upon the needs of the projected residents and in conformance to the total park
and recreation land for the general area.
            (2)   In general, a substitution of private open space for
dedicated parks will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the
installation of recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer
as part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including
specifications of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the village,
and before any credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or
developer must guarantee that these private recreation areas will be
permanently maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal
documents. When an adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it
will be necessary to compute the total park land dedication that would have
been required from the subdivision or planned unit development and then
subtract the credit to be given.
      2.   Criteria For Requiring A Contribution In Lieu Of Park And
Recreational Sites: Where the development is small and the resulting site is
too small to be practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park
and recreational purposes, the village shall require the subdivider to pay a
cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication required.
         a.   Contribution To Be Used For Park Purposes: The cash contributions
in lieu of park and recreation land dedication shall be utilized by the village
for park purposes, including acquisition, maintenance, preservation, or
improvement of park sites.
         b.   Acreage Value: The cash contributions in lieu of land shall be
based on a value per residential acre of an amount as specified from time to
time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code, or such other amount as is approved by the village
board from time to time.
         c.   Time Of Payment: All cash contributions shall be paid prior to or
simultaneous with final plat approval.
      3.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And A Cash Contribution: There
will be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a
combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both
necessary. These occasions will arise:
         a.   Where only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as
the location for a park site. That portion of the land within the subdivision
falling within the park location shall be dedicated as a site as aforesaid, and
a cash contribution in lieu thereof as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code shall be required for any additional land that
would have been required to be dedicated;
         b.   Where a major part of the local park or recreation site has
already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required.
      4.   Density Formula:
         a.   Table Established: The following table of population density is
generally indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size
for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required
dedication of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a
written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer:
ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Type Of Unit Total Persons Per Unit
Type Of Unit                                  Total Persons Per Unit
Detached single-family:
3 bedroom                                     3.845
4 bedroom                                     4.510
5 bedroom                                     5.500
Attached single-family (townhouse, row house,
quadruplex, etc.):
1 bedroom                                     1.500
2 bedroom                                     2.070
3 bedroom                                     3.666
4 bedroom                                     5.30
Low density apartment (to 15 per acre):
Efficiency                                    1.000
1 bedroom                                     1.583
2 bedroom                                     2.425
3 bedroom                                     3.297
4 bedroom                                     3.850
High density apartment (16 plus acres):
Efficiency                                    1.000
1 bedroom                                     1.357
2 bedroom                                     1.760
3 bedroom                                     2.752
 
         b.   Developer Demographic Study: In the event a subdivider or
developer files a written objection to the table of estimated ultimate
population listed herein, he shall submit his own demographic study showing the
estimated additional population to be generated from the subdivision or planned
unit development and in that event final determination of the density formula
to be used in such calculations shall be made by the board of trustees based
upon such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or developer and
from other sources which may be submitted to the board of trustees by the park
board, school districts, or others. It is recognized that population density,
age distribution, and local conditions change over the years, and the specific
formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, as
stated herein, is subject to periodic review and amendment if necessary.
      5.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the comprehensive plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
in a particular subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is
required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall
be reserved for subsequent purchase by the village or other public body
designated by the village provided that such acquisition is made within one
year from the date of approval of the final plat.
      6.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the subdivision or
planned unit development is less than forty (40) acres, public open space which
is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with dedications from
adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation areas without
hardship on a particular developer.
      7.   Topography And Grading: The slope, topography and geology of the
dedicated site as well as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended
purposes. Grading on sites dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not
differ greatly from surrounding land.
      8.   Improved Sites: All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready
for full service of electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed
drainage and curb and gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or
acceptable provision made therefor.
      9.   Conveyance: All sites conveyed as provided herein, shall be conveyed
either by warranty or trustee's deed. The subdivider or developer shall be
responsible for conveying good, merchantable title to such sites, and shall be
responsible for payment of all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance.
      10.   Annexation: The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu
thereof required by this section shall also be required as a condition to the
annexation of any land to the village and provisions therefor shall be
incorporated in any preannexation agreement concerning such land.
      11.   Pedestrianway: No credit against required dedications of land or
against cash contributions in lieu thereof as required by this section shall be
provided for pedestrianways which are provided by the subdivider or developer.
For purposes of this section, a "pedestrianway" shall be defined as a right of
way, however designated, across or within a block for use by pedestrian and/or
bicycle traffic, as well as any sidewalks and/or crosswalks, wherever located,
which the board of trustees has determined will be frequently utilized as a
bicycle path.
   I.   School Payments:
      1.   Funds Paid To Secure School Sites: As condition of approval for any
final plat of subdivision of any block, lot, or sublot or any part thereof, or
any piece or parcel of land, or of a final plat for a planned unit development,
or as a condition of issuance of a building permit for any dwelling unit, each
subdivider, developer, and permittee shall be required to make payments to the
elementary school and high school districts within which the property shall be
located as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. These funds are intended to provide the school
district with the necessary funds to secure school sites, and for such other
purposes as permitted by law, to provide adequate schooling for the anticipated
pupils who will live within each dwelling unit. The funds shall be paid at the
time of final plat approval, or, at the election of the subdivider or
developer, with the consent of the village board, shall be paid at the time of
building permit issuance for each dwelling unit. In all other circumstances,
the payment shall be made prior to issuance of a building permit. No payment
shall be required for any building permit for any dwelling unit within a
subdivision, if payment was made to the district at the time of subdivision
approval, in accordance with the requirements existing at the time of said
subdivision approval. No payment shall be required for any building permit for
any dwelling unit within a subdivision, if payment was made to the district on
or before July 1, 1994, pursuant to a written agreement entered into prior to
July 1, 1993, for a subdivision, which received final plat approval prior to
July 1, 1993.
The amount of the payment shall be determined by the respective school
district, using generally accepted formulas, provided that the village board
has approved the amount ascertained by the respective district, and provided
that the district has executed the approved indemnification agreement. In the
event that the property upon which the dwelling unit is to be located falls
within two (2) school districts for the same level of schooling, such as the
same two (2) elementary school districts, the district which has the greater
portion of the property upon which the dwelling unit shall be located shall
receive the funds.
If the funds are paid at time of plat approval or pursuant to a written
agreement described above, the developer or permittee shall submit to the
village receipts from each recipient school district, which confirm that the
required payments have been made. If the funds are to be paid at time of
building permit issuance, prior to issuance of the building permit, the
permittee shall furnish receipts from the recipient school districts, which
confirm the required payments have been made. The developer or permittee shall
be responsible to ensure that the correct school districts receive the funds.
If the funds are paid to the wrong district, the permittee shall not be
relieved of the obligation to pay the required amount to the correct school
district.
      2.   Transition Fees: A "school transition fee" is defined as a fee paid
to the applicable school district(s) at or before the time a building permit is
issued for new construction of a residential dwelling unit to provide funds to
the school district to provide for the education of students who are
anticipated to be generated from a dwelling unit. As a condition of all
annexation agreements entered into by the village, a provision shall hereafter
be included in all such agreements requiring the developer or owner of vacant
property to pay the transition fees as provided herein and as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. The determination of the number of students to be
generated from a particular dwelling unit or lot shall be based on the
following data published by the Illinois School Consulting Service 1 :
 Preschool Elementary Junior High Total High School Adults Total
                                  K - 8
               Preschool Elementary Junior High Total High School Adults Total
                                                K - 8
Detached                                                            
single-family:
2 bedroom      0.113     0.136      0.048       0.184 0.02        1.7    2.017
3 bedroom      0.292     0.369      0.173       0.542 0.184       1.881  2.899
4 bedroom      0.418     0.530      0.298       0.828 0.36        2.158  3.764
5 bedroom      0.283     0.345      0.248       0.593 0.30        2.594  3.770
Attached
single-family                                                       
(townhome, row
house, etc.):
1 bedroom      0         0          0           0     0           1.193  1.193
2 bedroom      0.064     0.088      0.048       0.136 0.038       1.752  1.99
3 bedroom      0.212     0.234      0.058       0.292 0.059       1.829  2.392
4 bedroom      0.323     0.322      0.154       0.476 0.173       2.173  3.145
Apartments and                                                      
condominiums:
Efficiency     0         0          0           0     0           1.294  1.294
1 bedroom      0         0.002      0.001       0.003 0.001       1.754  1.758
2 bedroom      0.047     0.086      0.042       0.128 0.046       1.693  1.914
3 bedroom      0.052     0.234      0.123       0.357 0.118       2.526  3.053
 
The amount of the transition fee per dwelling unit shall be calculated by
determining the unfunded cost to educate a student. The unfunded cost to
educate a student shall be calculated by adding the cost of educating a student
in the first and second years of occupancy of a new dwelling unit, less general
student assistance from the state and partial payment of real estate taxes,
during the time the property is not fully assessed as improved for a complete
tax year, multiplied by the number of students generated per dwelling unit as
provided in the aforesaid data, the product of which shall be the transition
fee per dwelling unit or lot. As of the effective date hereof, the unfunded
cost to educate a student is ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for the first
and second years of occupancy.
An objection to the transition fee shall be made in writing and shall be heard
by the board of trustees, at which time the developer or owner of the subject
property and the affected school district(s) shall be given the opportunity to
appear and be heard.
Annually, the school district receiving transition fees shall provide written
evidence to the village of the unfunded cost to educate students so that the
transition fees may be adjusted. If a school district fails to provide
information about education costs after a request by the village to do so, then
at the village's discretion, the transition fee shall remain the same for the
following year. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
Notes
  1. Illinois School Consulting Service/Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.,
1 Naperville, Illinois, 1996, or as updated from time to time by the same
  consulting firm.
11-2-5: UTILITIES:
All utilities, whenever possible, shall be public rather than privately
developed facilities, except as expressly approved by the village board.
   A.   Public Utilities:
      1.   Public utilities shall obtain permits from the village board for the
installation of communication, electric power, gas, or other utility services
before any installation is started.
      2.   All utilities, including, without limitation, electric, telephone,
gas and cable TV lines shall be installed and maintained underground in public
rights of way or in easements provided for those purposes. All care should be
taken to avoid disturbing or damage to trees to be preserved when any utilities
are being installed. If the village administrator, or his designee, determines
that it is not feasible for any utilities or their appurtenant equipment to be
located underground, the developer shall present a screening plan for such
aboveground utilities and their appurtenant equipment and a proposed screening
location for the review and approval of the village administrator, or his
designee, prior to the installation of such utilities, and the developer shall
install and thereafter maintain in good condition such approved screening.
Utilities shall be located in rear yards whenever possible.
   B.   Sewer And Water Supply: Sanitary sewers and water lines shall be
installed to comply with standards, specifications, and requirements set forth
in section 11-5-1 of this title, appendix A, and shall be connected to the
village's public water supply and sanitary sewer systems, in accordance with
plans and specifications approved in writing by the village.
   C.   Privately Developed Facilities: Where a development is to contain park
areas, stormwater detention facilities and/or other improvements which will not
be maintained by existing public agencies, provisions should be made, as part
of recorded deed restrictions, for the continuous maintenance, supervision,
operation and reconstruction of such facilities by the lot owners in the
development. Said deed restrictions shall be reviewed and approved in writing
by the corporate authorities of the village, or by its designee, as part of its
approval of the final plat and/or as part of the final plans and specifications
for the development. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-2-6: TREE REMOVAL AND TREES AND WOODLANDS PROTECTION:
Sections 5-1-4, "Tree Removal; Permit", and 5-1-4.1, "Trees And Woodlands
Protection", of this code, are hereby incorporated into these development
regulations by reference as fully as if set forth herein in their entirety.
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-2-7: EASEMENTS, RESERVATIONS, VACATIONS:
   A.   Dedications:
      1.   Areas Required To Be Dedicated:
         a.   Except where the village has approved the use of streets
otherwise designated as private streets, all new streets created by subdivision
and shown on the respective plats and/or plans submitted to the village for
approval and recording shall be dedicated as public village streets.
         b.   Additional street widths shall be dedicated along existing
thoroughfares where a width greater than that existing is called for by the
village's official comprehensive plan or by these subdivision regulations.
         c.   Except where the village has approved the use of streets
otherwise designated as private streets, crosswalks where required by this
title, or wherever otherwise approved by the village, shall be dedicated to the
village.
      2.   Identification Of Dedications: Areas to be dedicated shall be
clearly identified on the plat or plan as dedicated to the public.
   B.   Easements:
      1.   Areas To Be Shown As Easements:
         a.   Public utilities, stormwater facilities and installations shall
be located in suitable easements as specified in this title.
         b.   Planting strips or buffers shall be located between reverse
frontage lots and a thoroughfare, or between incompatible uses, or wherever
required.
      2.   Identification Of Easements: Easements shall be clearly identified
on all plats (i.e., drainage easement or utility easement).
      3.   Easements On Final Plat: The language of all easements set forth on
any final plat shall be as specified in section 11-5-4 of this title, appendix
D, except as otherwise approved by the corporate authorities of the village, or
by their designee.
   C.   Reservations:
      1.   Areas To Be Reserved: Whenever the area being subdivided embraces
all or part of any lands designated in the official comprehensive plan for a
school, park, or other community facility, or any other public use, all land so
designated shall be shown on the preliminary plat as being dedicated or
reserved for that proposed use, and it shall be reserved by the subdivider for
a period of one year from the date of approval of the preliminary plat, during
which time it shall be made available to the respective public agency at the
undeveloped acreage price, as determined by an appraisal acceptable to both
parties.
      2.   Reservations And Preliminary Plats:
         a.   Areas reserved shall be clearly identified on the preliminary
plat as reserved in accordance with these subdivision regulations.
         b.   The preliminary plat shall also contain the proposals of the
subdivider, as they might otherwise be platted, for the areas under
reservation, to be applied in the event the land is not acquired by the public
within the period of reservation.
         c.   Upon completion of the one year period of reservation, the
preliminary plat shall remain a valid preliminary plat for the formerly
reserved areas for a period of one year, subject to restrictions imposed by
this title.
      3.   Reservations And Final Plats:
         a.   Where practicable, final plats shall not include areas reserved;
said final plats should affect only that portion of the subdivider's land which
is unrestricted by the reservations.
         b.   Where final plats must include areas reserved, such areas shall
be clearly identified as reserved in accordance with these subdivision
regulations and shall not contain any proposals of the developer.
         c.   Final plats may be submitted for reserved land unacquired by the
public at the close of the one year period. Such plats will be considered
additional units of the subdivisions for which initial final plats were
recorded.
      4.   Reversion: If the appropriate public agency having jurisdiction has
not, within one year of the approval of the preliminary plat, acquired the site
reserved for a public use, the subdivider shall regain full and unencumbered
title to the same, and may use it in any way, and for any purpose, permitted by
the applicable regulations then in effect.
   D.   Right Of Refusal: The number, size, and location of dedications and
easements shall be subject to approval, and the plan commission shall ascertain
that the proposed sites are suitable for the proposed uses. The public retains
the right to refuse any and all dedications.
   E.   Vacations:
      1.   Procedure: In all cases, the vacation of any plat, or part thereof,
or any public right of way, easement, or part thereof, shall follow the
procedure for the review of plats established in these subdivision regulations
except that:
         a.   Final action shall be taken by the village board.
         b.   The plat officer shall recommend to the village board a sum to be
paid by the owner(s) of abutting properties in consideration of any public
property involved in the vacation.
      2.   Standards: The plat officer and the other administrative officers
shall recommend disapproval of any petition for vacation which fails to meet
the following standards:
         a.   No vacation shall be approved which creates a condition which
would not be permitted under the standards of design set forth in these
subdivision regulations, unless such vacation will at the same time correct a
more serious condition which exists contrary to the standards of these
subdivision regulations.
         b.   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a conflict
with the official comprehensive plan of the village.
         c.   No vacation shall be approved which will result in a violation of
the zoning ordinance or other applicable ordinances or regulations, unless such
vacation will at the same time correct a more serious condition which exists
contrary to such ordinances or regulations.
      3.   Petition Form And Content: The sketch and preliminary plat of
vacation shall be accompanied by a certified statement of the assessed
valuation of all properties surrounding any public right of way to be vacated.
Final petitions for vacation shall include the following items:
         a.   Three (3) copies of the original plat certified by the recorder
to be a true copy of same, on which is shown the portion to be vacated outlined
in a heavy line and hatched;
         b.   The following deeds, petitions, and certificates, all drafted
from models obtainable from the plat officer:
            (1)   Deed of vacation.
            (2)   Petition - three (3) copies.
            (3)   County clerk's certificate.
            (4)   Resolution.
            (5)   Assessor's certificate.
         c.   The petition as it is presented to the village board to be
accompanied by a recommendation from the plat officer.
      4.   Easements: The vacation of any plat, or part thereof, or right of
way, easement, or part thereof, shall not be deemed to be a vacation of the
rights of any public utility where said public utility has installed its
facilities therein. All such vacations shall be made upon the express condition
that the abutting property owner(s) grants to all public utilities, their
successors and assigns, the right of way or easement to operate, maintain,
renew, and reconstruct their facilities, over, or under the public right of way
or easement vacated and such condition shall be noted on the deed or plat of
vacation and in the ordinance or resolution of vacation.
      5.   Bonds: The village may require the petitioner to furnish bond in an
amount sufficient to protect the village, indemnifying it for any suit which
may be filed for damages sustained as a result of such vacation.
      6.   Limitation: Nothing contained herein, nor any required certificate,
shall be deemed in any way to limit the right and authority of the village to
vacate any plat or part thereof, or any right of way or easement or part
thereof where it finds that such vacation will serve the public interest.
      7.   Resubdivision In Lieu Of Vacation: It shall not be necessary to
vacate a plat or part thereof in order to proceed with a resubdivision of said
plat or part thereof. Resubdivision according to the procedures and standards
for subdivision required by these subdivision regulations shall automatically
constitute vacation of a prior plat or part thereof, provided that monetary
remuneration shall be paid to the village in consideration of any excess public
property vacated over that dedicated in the subdivision.
   F.   Open Space, Special Provisions: If the proposed subdivision or
development will include open space, woodlands, wetlands, or other common
areas, which the village board reasonably determines will require periodic
inspections or land management techniques to comply with applicable laws, such
as lands covered by a U.S. army corps of engineers' permit, or any other such
lands, which the village board determines will or may need such periodic
inspections or land management techniques, such as, but not limited to, mowing
and landscape maintenance, periodic burning, replanting of native plant
species, or preservation of animal habitats, the following shall be provided,
except as expressly waived by the village board, as a condition precedent to
final plat approval:
      1.   A cash escrow shall be deposited with the village in an amount as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code to assure the necessary funds to do all necessary
or desirable inspections and land management techniques for a period of seven
(7) years subsequent to final plat approval.
      2.   Through covenants or such other instrument as may be approved by the
village board and village attorney, the developer shall consent to the
immediate or deferred creation of a special service district, and waive any
right, on behalf of itself, and all successor owners, to contest the creation
of the district, the issuance of bonds, and the levy of taxes, to provide
sufficient funds to do all required or reasonably necessary inspections and
land management techniques, after the escrow funds are depleted. The district
shall be created by the village at such time as it determines it is necessary
or desirable to provide the necessary funds. It is the intention of this
provision that the district will be created at such a time so that the tax
revenue generated thereby will be available before the escrow funds are
completely depleted. If the board is satisfied with the land management
techniques and periodic inspections provided by the homeowners' association, it
may, in its discretion, postpone indefinitely the creation of the district.
      3.   The developer may also be required, when deemed reasonably necessary
by the village board, to improve or enhance the common areas, consistent with
sound land management techniques and prudent environmental practices, prior to
final plat approval, or such later time as approved by the village board. (Ord.
2015-03-02, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Variations In Design; Antimonotony Standard
11-3-2: Prefabricated Housing
11-3-1: VARIATIONS IN DESIGN; ANTIMONOTONY STANDARD:
All residences and dwelling units erected in any subdivision or development
subject to this title, whether within the village or in any unincorporated area
over which the village has jurisdiction, shall comply with the residential
design standards of the Lake Villa zoning ordinance, as they may be amended
from time to time. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-3-2: PREFABRICATED HOUSING:
No prefabricated completed housing constructed will be allowed in Lake Villa
where both the interior and/or exterior walls are completed prior to erection.
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
CHAPTER 4
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Letters Of Credit Or Cash Deposits; Maintenance Guarantee
11-4-2: Inspection At Developer's Expense
11-4-3: Building Permit(s)
11-4-4: Occupancy Permit
11-4-5: Acceptance; As Built Drawings
11-4-1: LETTERS OF CREDIT OR CASH DEPOSITS; MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Agreements And Guarantee Of Improvements: The requirements of this
section shall be complied with prior to the approval and recording of a final
plat of subdivision.
      1.   Action By Subdivider: Prior to the filing of an application for a
final plat, the subdivider shall submit the following to the village clerk:
         a.   Statement Of Agreement: A statement of agreement that:
            (1)   The land improvements required by this title shall be
completed by the owner or subdivider in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the village engineer.
            (2)   Four (4) sets plus one reproducible set on mylar of as built
plans shall be submitted by the subdivider.
            (3)   All improvements and the as built plans of said improvement,
shall be completed by the owner or subdivider within two (2) years or less
following approval of the final plat by the mayor and board of trustees.
            (4)   No home fronting on a newly constructed street in any
subdivision shall be occupied until the binder course has been applied to the
roadway. The final wearing surface shall not be applied until the elapse of one
winter season. The roadways remain the responsibility (including maintenance
and snowplowing) of the developer until accepted by the village board.
            (5)   The subdivider shall pay to the village a mandatory daily
fine for every day beyond the two (2) year period required for installation of
public improvements that the public improvements have not been completed and
received the approval of the village, unless an extension of time is granted by
the village, upon written application of the subdivider and the recommendation
of the village engineer.
            (6)   The subdivider, individually and on behalf of his heirs,
assigns, and successors in interest, hereby agrees to pay when due all fees,
deposits, and payments required by this code, including, but not limited to,
all fees, deposits, and payments required by sections 1-8-1 through 1-8-8 of
this code.
      2.   Guarantee:
         a.   General: In order to provide for the orderly growth of the
village and to further provide for the orderly development of land and the
installation of all required improvements in newly developed areas, no plat of
a proposed subdivision shall be given final approval until the requirements of
this section have been satisfied.
         b.   Approval: Before approval of a final plat, the village engineer
must certify that all required improvements have been installed in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications, the provisions of this title, and
all other applicable ordinances of the village; provided, however, that a final
plat may be approved upon the depositing of a letter of credit acceptable to
the village as provided hereunder:
            (1)   The letter of credit must be issued by an institution which
the village finds to be financially sound and reputable.
            (2)   The letter of credit must conform with the format approved by
the village attorney from time to time.
            (3)   The amount of the letter of credit shall be in an amount as
determined by the village engineer and as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
            (4)   The letter of credit shall have an expiration date not less
than twenty four (24) months subsequent to final plat approval by the village
board.
            (5)   Letters of credit shall be permitted by phase of development
and shall be subject to partial reductions in the face amount as distinct
phases of each improvement are completed, and shall be released upon
satisfactory completion of the improvements, provided, however, that ten
percent (10%) of the improvement cost shall be retained in the letter of credit
for a twenty four (24) month guarantee period after approval by the village
engineer of the installation and completion of all improvements as described in
this section. This ten percent (10%) will then be released at the end of the
twenty four (24) month guarantee period after final inspection and approval by
the village engineer, or shall be used by the village for the maintenance and
repair of the improvements if the subdivider fails to do so.
         c.   Completion: All public improvements within each phase of the
subdivision shall be completed within two (2) years of final plat approval for
that phase.
      d.   Other Guarantees: In lieu of the letter of credit, the subdivider,
at his election, may deposit cash or a certified check with the village
engineer in an amount of as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code of the estimated cost of construction and
maintenance of the required improvements as determined by the village engineer.
      e.   Completion Prior To Approval: In the event that the subdivider
elects to complete the required improvements prior to final plat approval, then
in that event, the subdivider shall deposit a letter of credit to guarantee
restoration of the site in the event that the improvements are not completed
within two (2) years of the commencement of construction in an amount as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code of the estimated cost to restore the site as
determined by the village engineer. This letter of credit shall conform with
the requirements set forth in this section.
      f.   Improvements Not Completed: If the improvements are not completed
within the required time, the village may use the letter of credit funds or
cash bond or any portion thereof to complete construction of the improvements
and/or for the maintenance and repair thereof.
      3.   Action By Village Clerk: The village clerk shall not certify the
approval of the mayor and board of trustees on the final plat until the
requirements of this section have been completed.
      4.   Guarantee Of Completed Improvements: Upon completion of the
improvements, the subdivider shall notify the village engineer in writing and
request inspection of the completed improvements. The subdivider shall submit,
with the request for inspection, as built plans covering the improvements to be
accepted. Such as built plans shall be submitted to the village in both paper
and electronic form. The electronic form of such as built plans shall be
portable document format (PDF) or in a format that is technologically current
and readable by village personnel at the time of submission as well as in CADD
format coordinated with the village to be incorporated in the village's GPS/GIS
system. After the improvements have been inspected by the village and found to
be complete, but before acceptance by the village board, the subdivider shall
furnish a written guarantee, guaranteeing the improvements against faulty
workmanship and/or materials for a period of two (2) years after acceptance.
   B.   Construction Of Required Improvements:
      1.   Preconstruction Meeting: Before any construction activity,
including, but not limited to, site grading, removal of vegetation, or
disturbing the site in any manner, occurs on a site that is subdivided or is to
be subdivided, the subdivider shall request a preconstruction meeting with the
necessary village and county personnel, which shall include the village
engineer, planner, director of public works, and a representative from the
stormwater management commission. The preconstruction meeting is intended to
provide the subdivider with the necessary information and direction to ensure
that the subdivision construction and improvements are installed in accordance
with all applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances, including, but not
limited to, adequate protection of natural resources. No such construction
shall occur or be permitted on the site until the preconstruction meeting is
held and the final plat is approved and recorded. All such construction shall
be accomplished in accordance with the directions furnished at the
preconstruction meeting.
      2.   Installation Required: After approval of the preliminary plat by the
village board, and after approval of the plans and specifications for required
improvements by the village engineer and board of trustees, the subdivider
shall install street and utility improvements and other improvements indicated
on the plans in accordance with specifications hereinafter provided. If such
improvements are not installed as required at the time the final plat is
submitted for approval, the subdivider shall, before the recording of his plat,
enter into a contract with the village agreeing to install the required
improvements. Such contract shall be in such form as required by this section.
      In any event, all public improvements shall be fully installed and
receive approval from the village within two (2) years of the date of final
plat approval.
      Any subdivider who fails to install, within the two (2) year period, all
public improvements and receive approval from the village, shall be subject to
a mandatory daily fine as specified from time to time in Section 1-18-1 of this
Village Code until said improvements are completed and have received the
approval of the village engineer and village treasurer.
      The village board may, at the written request of a subdivider, if
recommended by the village engineer, extend the period for completion of public
improvements beyond the twenty four (24) month period; provided, that the
subdivider post suitable additional security to ensure the balance of the
improvements in a form satisfactory to the village board.
      3.   Deeding Of Improvements: All underground public improvements up to
the property line shall be deeded over to the village and become the property
of the village after approval by the village engineer and when accepted by
resolution of the board. All labor and material for installing underground
public improvements shall be furnished by the subdivider. All testing required
for acceptance shall be done by the subdivider under the supervision of the
village engineer.
   C.   Inspection Of Improvements:
      1.   Required: All required land improvements to be installed under the
provisions of these subdivision regulations shall be inspected by the village
at the subdivider's expense.
      2.   Notification: Before starting the construction of any improvements,
the subdivider shall ascertain from the village building commissioner what
inspections are required and the amount of notification desired in each case,
and shall comply with all their rules, regulations, and instructions pertaining
to such required inspections.
      3.   Reports: Any inspection which requires that the health officer be
present shall be made by that official or his agent and reported in written
form; one copy shall be furnished to the engineer or other agent of the
subdivider and one copy to the village.
      4.   Subdivider's Responsibility: Regardless of contracts, agreements, or
inspections performed, final responsibility for the installation of all
improvements, in accordance with the applicable standards, shall rest with the
subdivider.
      5.   Approval And Acceptance:
         a.   When water, sewer, street, and drainage improvements and all
appurtenances thereto, based on approved plans, have been constructed or
installed and passed all inspections, the corporate authorities shall provide
the developer with a letter of approval, completion, and acceptance by the
village of Lake Villa.
         b.   When individual sewage disposal systems, based on approved plans,
have been constructed or installed and have passed all inspections, the health
officer shall provide the developer with a letter of approval and completion.
         c.   When any required sewer or water improvement is not intended for
public ownership, the appropriate inspecting agency shall provide the developer
and the village with a letter of approval and completion. Such letter shall not
constitute acceptance by the public but shall permit the owner to operate and
maintain the facility.
      6.   Fees: The subdivider shall pay to the village such reasonable fees
as may be prescribed by the inspecting agency or the corporate authorities to
defray the cost of inspections and the fees for related engineering services as
may be required relative to installation of the public improvements as
specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
      For the normal and customary subdivision improvements, such as sewer,
water, curb and gutters, drainage structures and roads, the subdivider shall
pay for the village's engineering costs incurred on a flat fee basis, based on
the village engineer's estimate of the cost of such improvements, according to
the following:
         a.   For improvements, which are estimated to cost five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) or less, the flat fee shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
         b.   For improvements, which are estimated to cost between five
hundred thousand one dollars ($500,001.00) and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00), the flat fee shall be as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
         c.   For improvements, which are estimated to cost one million one
dollars ($1,000,001.00) or greater, the flat fee shall be as specified from
time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code.
   D.   More Stringent Provision Applies: In the event of a conflict between
the definitions and/or standards contained in title 5 of this code with the
definitions and/or provisions contained in this title, the more stringent
definition and/or standard shall govern and apply. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
11-4-2: INSPECTION AT DEVELOPER'S EXPENSE:
All required public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of
this title shall be inspected during the course of construction by the
enforcement officer or a duly designated deputy. All fees and costs incurred
relative to such inspection and in reviewing the plans and specifications for
such required public improvements shall be paid by or reimbursed to the village
by the developer as specified from time to time in Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03,
12-2-2024)
11-4-3: BUILDING PERMIT(S):
No building permit shall be issued by the village for the construction of any
building, structure or improvement to the land or any lot within a development
until all requirements of this title have been fully complied with. (Ord. 2015-
03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-4-4: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit shall be granted by the village for the use of any
structure within any subdivision or other development until all required public
improvements have been constructed, installed, completed, and made ready to
serve the development, provided, however, the final surface course of all
streets and roadways providing access to the development shall be completed
only after occupancy permits have been issued for at least ninety percent (90%)
of the development or such earlier time as recommended by the village engineer
or his designee, and approved by the village board. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-
2015)
11-4-5: ACCEPTANCE; AS BUILT DRAWINGS:
Upon the completion of construction of all required public improvements
required by this title, a detailed inspection of such improvements shall be
made by a representative of the village, the enforcement officer, and a
representative of the developer. After certification by the enforcement officer
that all construction has been completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications previously approved by the village, the corporate authorities
will formally accept the required public improvements which are to be dedicated
to the village. Prior to such acceptance, however, the engineer representing
the developer shall prepare and submit to the village two (2) complete sets of
as built drawings of all installed improvements on which also are shown or
indicated any changes in the original construction drawings that were made
during the construction period, as well as at least one copy of those same as
built drawings in such digital format as required by the village engineer.
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
CHAPTER 5
APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Appendix A; Engineering Details
11-5-2: Appendix B; Watershed Development Ordinance
11-5-3: Appendix C; Plat Signature Blocks
11-5-4: Appendix D; Easement Language
11-5-1: APPENDIX A; ENGINEERING DETAILS:
Title 5, chapters 1, "Streets And Sidewalks", 3, "Public Improvements; Design
And Construction", and 4, "Combined Waterworks And Sewer System Regulations",
of this code are each hereby incorporated by reference as fully as if set forth
herein in their entirety. (Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-5-2: APPENDIX B; WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE:
The provisions of section 4-6-1, "Stormwater Management Regulations; Adoption
Of Lake County Watershed Development Ordinance", of this code, also referred to
as the "watershed development ordinance", as same may be amended from time to
time, are hereby incorporated by reference and thereby made a part of these
development regulations to the same extent as if fully set forth herein. (Ord.
2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-5-3: APPENDIX C; PLAT SIGNATURE BLOCKS:
   A.   The following signature blocks shall be required for a plat of
subdivision, a plat of resubdivision, and/or a plat of consolidation:
      1.   Surveyor's certificate;
      2.   Owner's certificate;
      3.   Plan commission;
      4.   Village clerk;
      5.   Village treasurer;
      6.   Village engineer;
      7.   Mayor, on behalf of the mayor and board of trustees;
      8.   County clerk;
      9.   Additional signature blocks;
      10.   It shall be the responsibility of the party preparing the plat to
determine if any additional signature blocks are required by the county or by a
party granted an easement.
   B.   The following signature blocks shall be required for a plat of easement
and/or a plat of abrogation:
      1.   Surveyor's certificate;
      2.   Owner's certificate;
      3.   Village clerk;
      4.   Village treasurer;
      5.   Village engineer;
      6.   Mayor, on behalf of the mayor and board of trustees;
      7.   Party or parties being granted or abrogating an easement or right of
way;
      8.   It shall be the responsibility of the party preparing the plat to
determine if any additional signature blocks are required by the county or by a
party granted an easement.
   C.   The following signature blocks shall be required for a plat of
vacation:
      1.   Surveyor's certificate;
      2.   Owner's certificate;
      3.   New owner's certificate;
      4.   Village clerk;
      5.   Mayor, on behalf of the mayor and board of trustees;
      6.   Village engineer;
      7.   It shall be the responsibility of the party preparing the plat to
determine if any additional signature blocks are required by the county or by a
party granted an easement.
   D.   To entitle a final plat to be entered in the proper record books in the
office of the county recorder of deeds, the following properly executed
certificates shall accompany it. These certificates shall be lettered or
printed legibly with durable ink, or typed on the face of the plat.
SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS    )
COUNTY OF     ) ss
I,       , a Professional Land Surveyor in the State and County aforesaid
hereby certify that a Plat of                  has been made under my
supervision of the following described property:
INSERT LEGAL DESCRIPTION
I further certify that iron stakes have been set at all lot corners. Dimensions
are given in feet and decimal parts thereof.
I further certify that no part of said property is situated within a flood
hazard area as identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map No.            , effective date of            .
I further certify that the foregoing property falls within the corporate limits
of Village of Lake Villa which has adopted an official comprehensive plan and
is exercising the special powers authorized by the State of Illinois according
to 65 ILCS 5/11-12-6.
Dated at                , Illinois, this          day of         , A.D.,
20         .
Surveyor
My License Expires:       
VILLAGE CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
COUNTY OF LAKE     ) ss
I,       , Village Clerk of the Village of Lake Villa, Illinois, hereby certify
that this plat was presented to, and by resolution, only approved by the Board
of Trustees of said Village at its meeting held on                , 20        
and that the required bond or other guarantee has been posted for the
completion of the improvements required by the regulations of said Village.
In witness whereof I have hereto set my hand and seal of the Village of Lake
Villa:
Dated this          day of                A.D., 20       .
            
      Village Clerk
VILLAGE CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
COUNTY OF LAKE     ) ss
Approved by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village of Lake Villa, Lake
County, Illinois.
This           day of              , A.D., 20        .
       
      By: Mayor
            
      Attest: Village Clerk
COUNTY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
COUNTY OF LAKE     ) ss
I,        County Clerk of Lake County, Illinois do hereby certify that there
are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes, and no redeemable
tax sales against any of the land described on this plat.
Given under my hand and seal at                , Illinois this          day of
                A.D. 20        .
      
By: County Clerk
PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
COUNTY OF LAKE     ) ss
Approved by the Plan Commission of the Village of Lake Villa, Lake County,
Illinois.
This          day of                 A.D., 20        .
      
      By: Chairman
            
      Attest: Secretary
VILLAGE TREASURER'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
COUNTY OF LAKE     ) ss
Approved by the Village Treasurer of the Village of Lake Villa, Lake County,
Illinois.
Dated this          day of                 A.D., 20        .
      
      Village Treasurer
VILLAGE ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE
      STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
      COUNTY OF LAKE     ) ss
Approved by the Village Engineer of the Village of Lake Villa, Lake County,
Illinois.
Dated this          day of                 A.D., 20        .
            
      Village Engineer
OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
      STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
      COUNTY OF     ) ss
This is to certify that                 and                 are owners of the
property described hereon, and have caused the same to be surveyed and platted
as indicated hereon for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and does
hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and title thereon
indicated.
Dated this          day of                 A.D., 20        .
            
      Owner
            
      Owner
NOTARY PUBLIC
      STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
      COUNTY OF     ) ss
I,       , a Notary Public in and for said county do hereby certify that
(insert owner(s) name(s))  and                      is personally known to me
to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing certificate
as such owner, appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they
signed and delivered the said instrument as their own free and voluntary act
for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this          day of                
A.D., 20        .
            
      Notary Public
My Commission Expires:    
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
11-5-4: APPENDIX D; EASEMENT LANGUAGE:
   A.   Village Easement:
      A permanent, non-exclusive easement (the "village easement(s)") is hereby
reserved for and granted to the village of Lake Villa ("the village") and to
its successors and assigns, in, on, upon, across, over, under, and through the
village easements shown on the plat for the purpose of installing,
constructing, inspecting, operating, replacing, renewing, altering, enlarging,
removing, repairing, cleaning and maintaining water mains, sanitary sewers,
storm sewers, storm drains, ditches, swales and other drainage improvements,
and any and all manholes, hydrants, pipes, connections, catch basins, buffalo
boxes, and without limitation, such other installations as may be required to
furnish water, sanitary sewer, storm sewer service, and drainage to the
property which is the subject of this plat and/or to any other property in the
vicinity, and such appurtenances and additions thereto as the village may deem
necessary, together with the right of access across said village easements for
the necessary personnel and equipment of the village and its employees,
contractors, subcontractors, and agents to do any or all of the above work, and
the right, but not the obligation, is also hereby granted to the village to do
any or all of the above work.
      The right is also hereby granted to the village to cut down, trim, or
remove any trees, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with the operation of
or access to any village facilities and/or improvements in, on, upon, across,
over, under, or through said village easements. No permanent buildings,
structures, or improvement other than asphalt pavement shall be placed on said
village easements, but some portion(s) thereof may be used for grass and such
landscaping and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the
aforesaid uses and rights.
      Unless otherwise specifically directed by the village, the respective
owners of record from time to time of the property underlying said village
easements shall be responsible for the maintenance and restoration from time to
time of the surface area, whether grass, landscaping and/or paved surface
within those portions of said village easements. In the event the owner fails
to fulfill said responsibilities, the village may, but shall not be obligated,
to fulfill said responsibilities. The village may bring an action at law
against the delinquent owner or owners of record of said property to collect
such costs, including but not limited to, attorney's fees and other costs of
collection.
      Any conflicts in the use of such village easement(s) shall be resolved by
a final determination by the village administrator, or his designee.
   B.   Combined Village And Public Utility Easement:
      A permanent, non-exclusive easement (the "public utility easement(s)") is
hereby reserved for and granted to the village of Lake Villa ("the village")
and public utility companies (including but not limited to franchised cable TV
companies) and to their respective successors and assigns, in, on, upon,
across, over, under, and through the public utility easement(s) as shown and so
labeled on the plat for the purpose of installing, constructing, inspecting,
operating, replacing, renewing, altering, enlarging, removing, repairing,
cleaning and maintaining public utilities and cable TV service franchised by
the village, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, storm drains, ditches,
swales, and other drainage improvements, and any and all manholes, hydrants,
pipes, connections, catch basins, buffalo boxes, and without limitation, such
other installations as may be required to furnish public utilities, water,
sanitary sewer and storm sewer services to the property which is the subject of
this plat and/or to any other property in the vicinity, and such appurtenances
and additions thereto as the village may deem necessary, together with the
right of access across said public utility easements for the necessary
personnel and equipment of the village and its employees, contractors,
subcontractors, and agents to do any or all of the above work, and the right,
but not the obligation, is also hereby granted to the village to do any or all
of the above work.
      The right is also hereby granted to the village to cut down, trim, or
remove any trees, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with the operation of
or access to any village and/or public utility facilities in, on, upon, across,
over, under, or through said public utility easements. No permanent buildings,
structures, or improvement other than asphalt pavement shall be placed on said
village utility easements, but some portion(s) thereof may be used for grass
and such landscaping and other purposes that do not then or later interfere
with the aforesaid uses and rights.
      Unless otherwise specifically directed by the village, the respective
owners of record from time to time of the property underlying said village
utility easements shall be responsible for the maintenance and restoration from
time to time of the surface area, whether grass, landscaping and/or paved
surface within those portions of said public utility easements. In the event
the owner fails to fulfill said responsibilities, the village may, but shall
not be obligated, to fulfill said responsibilities. The village may bring an
action at law against the delinquent owner or owners of record of said property
to collect such costs, including but not limited to, attorney's fees and other
costs of collection.
      Any conflicts in the use of such easement(s) shall be resolved by a final
determination by the village administrator, or his designee.
   C.   Public Utility Easement:
      A permanent, non-exclusive easement (the "public utility easement(s)") is
hereby reserved for and granted to public utility companies (including but not
limited to franchised cable TV companies) and to their respective successors
and assigns, in, on, upon, across, over, under, and through the public utility
easement(s) as shown and so labeled on the plat for the purpose of installing,
constructing, inspecting, operating, replacing, renewing, altering, enlarging,
removing, repairing, cleaning and maintaining public utilities and cable TV
service franchised by the village of Lake Villa ("the village"), and without
limitation, such other installations as may be required to furnish their
respective public utility services to the property which is the subject of this
plat and/or to any other property in the vicinity, and such appurtenances and
additions thereto as the village may deem necessary, together with the right of
access across said public utility easements for the necessary personnel and
equipment of said public utilities and their respective employees, contractors,
subcontractors, and agents to do any or all of the above work, and the right,
but not the obligation, is also hereby granted to the village to do any or all
of the above work.
      The right is also hereby granted to the village or to the respective
public utility companies to cut down, trim, or remove any trees, shrubs, or
other plants that interfere with the operation of or access to any public
utility facilities in, on, upon, across, over, under, or through said public
utility easements. No permanent buildings, structures, or improvement other
than asphalt pavement shall be placed on said village utility easements, but
some portion(s) thereof may be used for grass and such landscaping and other
purposes that do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses and
rights.
      Unless otherwise specifically directed by the village, the respective
owners of record from time to time of the property underlying said public
utility easements shall be responsible for the maintenance and restoration from
time to time of the surface area, whether grass, landscaping and/or paved
surface within those portions of said public utility easements. In the event
the owner fails to fulfill said responsibilities, the village or the respective
public utility may, but shall not be obligated, to fulfill said
responsibilities.
      Any conflicts in the use of such public utility easement(s) shall be
resolved by a final determination by the village administrator, or his
designee.
   D.   Stormwater Management Easement:
      A permanent, non-exclusive easement for stormwater management (the
"stormwater management easement(s)") is hereby reserved for and granted to the
village of Lake Villa ("the village") and its successors and assigns to
install, repair, maintain, construct, reconstruct, alter and operate storm
sewers, storm drains, ditches, and swales, detention and/or retention ponds or
areas, outlet structures or any other stormwater management improvements and
structures (all collectively referred to herein as "stormwater improvements")
in, into, upon, over, across and under the property embraced within the area(s)
so shown and labeled on the plat and for the purposes of the operation and
maintenance of such appurtenances and additions thereto as the village may deem
necessary, together with the right of access across this stormwater management
easement for the necessary personnel and equipment of the village and its
employees, contractors, subcontractors, and agents to do any or all of the
above work, and the right, but not the obligation, is hereby granted to the
village to do any of the above work. No permanent buildings, structures, or
trees shall be placed upon said stormwater management easement, other than
those structures necessary for the management of stormwater as approved by the
village. Unless otherwise specifically directed by the village, the respective
owners of record from time to time of the property underlying said stormwater
management easement shall be responsible for the maintenance and restoration
from time to time of the stormwater management easement, whether grass,
landscaping, and/or paved surface within those portions of said stormwater
management easement, and the costs therefor shall be the responsibility of the
owner(s) of the property, in the event the owner(s) fail to fulfill said
responsibilities, the village may, but shall not be obligated, to fulfill said
responsibilities. The village may bring an action at law against the delinquent
owner or owners of record of said property to collect such costs, including but
not limited to attorney's fees and other costs of litigation.
      Any conflicts in the use of such stormwater management easement(s) shall
be resolved by a final determination by the village administrator, or his
designee.
(Ord. 2015-03-02, 3-11-2015)
TITLE 12
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Scope; Application
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
The president and board of trustees of the village, having found and determined
that a considerable portion of the village's rental housing may be converted to
condominium status; that the prospective purchasers of these condominium units
are often without knowledge of the unique concepts of ownership involved; that
prospective buyers often have little factual basis presented to them on which
to make a decision; and that in order to provide buyers of condominium units
with basic information by which to make an intelligent housing choice and
promote the health, safety and welfare of the people, it is necessary and
appropriate for the village to require that developers of condominium
conversions prepare and distribute information deemed relevant to the buyers of
this type of residential property. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-1-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION:
The provisions of this title shall apply only to residential conversion
condominiums, as that term is herein defined, within the village. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ACT: The "condominium property act", as amended from time to time, of the state
of Illinois.
AGENT: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, corporation
or any other entity or combination of entities who represents or acts for or on
behalf of a developer in selling or offering to sell any condominium unit.
BLANKET ENCUMBRANCE: A trust deed, mortgage, judgment or other lien or
encumbrance, including an option or contract to sell or a trust agreement
affecting a condominium, including any lien or other encumbrance arising as a
result of the imposition of any tax assessment by a public authority.
BOARD OF MANAGERS OR BOARD: Those owners elected to administer the property at
the time and in the manner provided by the declaration for the property and
vested with the rights, titles, powers, privileges, trusts, duties and
obligations imposed by the act, declaration and bylaws and until such persons
are or must be elected shall mean the "developer" as herein defined.
CLOSING OF SALE: The operation of transferring ownership of a condominium unit
to the purchaser from the developer through a deed of conveyance, or closing
pursuant to articles of agreement or contract sale.
COMMON ELEMENTS: All portions of the property except the units, including
limited common elements unless otherwise specified.
COMMISSIONER: The building commissioner of the village of Lake Villa.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: The sale of or a plan by a developer to sell residential
condominium units in connection with a conversion condominium.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT OR UNIT: A separate three (3) dimensional area within the
condominium identified as such in the declaration and on the condominium plat
and shall include all improvements contained within such area except those
excluded in the declaration.
CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM: A property improved with any building of more than four
(4) dwelling units which contains structures, excepting those newly constructed
and intended for condominium ownership, which are, or have previously been,
wholly or partially occupied before recording of condominium instruments by
persons other than those who have contracted for the purchase of condominiums.
DECLARATION: The declaration required by the Illinois condominium property act.
DEPARTMENT: The building department of the village of Lake Villa.
DEVELOPER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture or
corporation or any other entity or combination of entities or any successors
thereto, who undertake to develop a condominium project.
ELDERLY AND/OR HANDICAPPED: Elderly shall be deemed to be a person over the age
of sixty (60) years. A handicapped person shall mean an individual suffering
from a physical or mental disability to such an extent as to be eligible for
disability benefits under the requirements of the social security
administration, irrespective of whether said benefits are actually being
received.
LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS: A portion of the common elements so designated in the
declaration as being reserved for the use of a certain unit or units to the
exclusion of other units.
OFFER: Any inducement, solicitation, advertisement, publication or announcement
by a developer to any person or the general public to encourage a person to
purchase a condominium unit in a condominium project.
PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, trustee or other legal entity
recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The masculine, feminine,
singular or plural is included in any circumstances.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Individual items of personalty including, without
limitation: refrigerator, range, garbage disposal, dishwasher, clothes washer,
clothes dryer, decorating and floor covering and the like.
PLAT OF CONDOMINIUM: The plat of a duly licensed surveyor establishing and
describing condominium units and common elements.
PROPERTY REPORT: The property report required in accordance with chapter 2 of
this title.
PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER: A person who visits the condominium project site for the
purpose of inspection for possible purchase or who requests a copy of the
property report.
SITE: The lot or lots, tract or tracts of land, described in the declaration
referred to in the Illinois condominium property act.
UNIT OWNER: The person or persons whose estates or interests, individually or
collectively, aggregate fee single absolute ownership in a condominium unit.
VILLAGE: The village of Lake Villa. (Ord. 88-2-3)
CHAPTER 2
PROPERTY REPORT
SECTION:
12-2-1: Property Report Required
12-2-1: PROPERTY REPORT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any developer to offer for sale any condominium unit
in a conversion condominium prior to making available to the village and
prospective purchasers a property report which shall contain the information
specified herein.
   A.   Identification information including:
      1.   Name and address of the developer (converter) and the owner
including all partners of a partnership, all officers and directors of a
corporation, and the beneficial owner or owners of a trust.
      2.   Name of the building, address and number of units.
      3.   The principal attorneys, accountants, architect, engineer and
contractor of the development.
   B.   A description of the property and improvements including:
      1.   A map or plat showing the size and dimension of the condominium
project, together with all improvements, including recreational facilities and
proposed construction.
      2.   Description, nature and ownership of all property and facilities on
the site which are not a part of the condominium project.
      3.   The share of ownership of each unit in the common element.
      4.   Present and planned location of streets and roads, including
driveways, access roads and parking areas on and contiguous to the site and the
nature of ownership thereof.
   C.   Proposed prices of the condominium units and a description of personal
property which may be included in the sale, stating whether new or existing,
including, without limitation: refrigerator, range, garbage disposal,
dishwasher, clothes washer, clothes dryer, decorating and floor covering and
any change in the sales price resulting from inclusion or exclusion of the
items in the purchase.
   D.   If the purchase of all or any of the condominium units is to be
financed by the developer or if financing has been arranged by the developer, a
statement indicating:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person providing such
financing;
      2.   The interest rate to be charged;
      3.   The downpayment which will be required;
      4.   The length of the mortgages being offered;
      5.   The service charge (points) which will be charged;
      6.   Any other fees which will be charged for considering an application
for a mortgage or providing financing including, but not limited to,
application fees and appraisal charges.
   E.   Drawings, architectural plans or other suitable documents setting forth
the necessary information for location, maintenance and repair of all
condominium facilities and equipment to the extent these documents exist. Such
items may be incorporated in the property report by reference and shall be
located at the sales office site or construction office site and shall be
turned over to the board of managers upon transfer of control by the developer.
   F.   Use permitted for individual condominium units by the declaration,
bylaws of the condominium association or organization and applicable zoning
provisions.
   G.   Statement of title, listing all restrictions of record and the
condition of title.
   H.   Method and timing of transfer of control over the condominium project
to the board of managers and the nature and extent of any interest retained by
the developer, and the rights and obligations of unit purchasers after closing
and prior to election of the initial board of managers.
   I.   Projected initiation and completion dates for proposed construction,
renovation or conversion and a statement disclosing any penalty imposed by the
developer upon the contractor if said completion dates are not met and whether
any such penalty will inure to the benefit of a unit purchaser or whether
additional costs will be imposed on a buyer if such date is not met.
   J.   Statement disclosing the existence of the escrow account in which
developer is required to deposit any deposit or advance payment in the purchase
price pursuant to section 12-3-7 of this title, and the terms and conditions
governing the escrowed funds and their release under section 12-3-7 of this
title.
   K.   Statement of any pending litigation which would affect the condominium
or the developer's ability to convey clear title.
   L.   Statement of the current real estate taxes, estimated charges, thereto
as a result of the conversion, and an estimate of such tax on each unit and the
formula used to derive same.
   M.   Copies of the sales documents and literature, including, but not
limited to:
      1.   Deed or deeds of conveyance;
      2.   Bill of sale;
      3.   Trust deed, if applicable;
      4.   Mortgage and promissory note if financing is through the developer
or such documents as are otherwise available to the developer;
      5.   Proposed real estate sales contract.
   N.   Summary of the operating expenses of the buildings as a rental project
for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the filing of the
declaration.
   O.   Copies of the following documents numbered and indexed in such a manner
as the developer may select, so as to permit ready reference thereto:
      1.   The declaration and plat.
      2.   The articles of incorporation or charter of the condominium
association.
      3.   The proposed bylaws and regulations of the condominium association.
      4.   Coverage and amounts of condominium insurance policies, which
coverage shall be equal to or greater than the appraised value of the project
after conversion, and a copy of the appraisal report utilized in making such
determination.
   P.   A statement of management and expected operation costs of condominium,
including:
      1.   Name of management agent, if any, and the services the agent will
perform.
      2.   Length of term of any management contract and charges and
circumstances, if any, under which the charges may be increased.
      3.   The conditions, if any, under which contract may be canceled or
terminated.
      4.   Statement disclosing any relationship between the developer and the
management firm and their respective corporate officers and controlling
interests.
   Q.   Copy of annual estimated budgets for the condominium project commencing
with the filing of the declaration up to and including the expected date that
control of the project will pass to the board of managers, which shall include
estimated monthly payments to be prorated to each unit. The budget shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Costs included in monthly assessment.
         a.   Utilities, including heating, fuel, water and sewer not
separately metered;
         b.   Scavenger service;
         c.   Janitorial service;
         d.   Ground and building maintenance;
         e.   Security;
         f.   Supplies;
         g.   Maintenance and operation of recreational facilities;
         h.   Building and other insurance;
         i.   Elevator maintenance;
         j.   Sidewalks and street maintenance (including driveways, access
roads and parking areas) and snow removal services therefor;
         k.   Other operating costs, if any;
         l.   Management services including management fees, legal, accounting
and/or bookkeeping services;
         m.   Reserves, including reserves for improvements, unexpected repair
work and replacement and upkeep of common elements and facilities including the
basis upon which the reserves are calculated and the manner in which such
reserves may be expended by the developer, if at all, prior to transferring
ownership to the board of managers.
If no provisions for reserves are included in the estimated common expenses,
the following statement in type size and style equal to at least ten (10) point
bold type shall be set forth:
NO RESERVE FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE COSTS IS INCLUDED IN THE ESTIMATED COMMON
EXPENSES. IT MAY, THEREFORE, BE NECESSARY FOR UNIT OWNERS TO PAY A SPECIAL
ASSESSMENT TO PAY FOR SUCH COSTS IF THEY OCCUR.
      2.   Cost not included in monthly assessment:
         a.   Any items listed in subsection A1 of this section not included in
same;
         b.   Utilities, including fuel for heat and hot water, electricity,
water and sewer which are separately metered.
   R.   Alternative provisions, if any, if an insufficient number of units are
sold to cover the proposed operations and maintenance budget.
   S.   A report from a qualified, licensed, certified structural engineer or
registered architect, not associated with the developer, stating his opinions
concerning the condition and the rated life and expected useful life of the
roof, foundation, external and supporting walls, mechanical, electrical,
plumbing and structural elements and all other common facilities, together with
an estimate of repair and replacement costs, at current market prices to put
said items in proper working order, and which shall indicate what the costs per
category of unit would be if the unit owners were assessed for the estimated
cost. This report shall include the approximate dates of installation of the
facilities listed above and the dates of major repairs to such facilities. The
license or registration number of said engineer or architect shall be included
in the report. A copy of this report shall be submitted to the village.
   T.   Explanation of the buyers' cancellation rights and the procedures for
cancellation.
   U.   If there are any restrictions upon the free sale, transfer conveyance,
encumbrance or leasing of a unit, then a statement in bold face type or capital
letters in substantially the following form shall be included:   THE SALE,
LEASE OR TRANSFER OF YOUR UNIT IS RESTRICTED OR CONTROLLED. Immediately
following this statement, there shall appear a reference to the document,
articles, paragraphs, or pages in the disclosure materials where the
restrictions or controls are set forth or described in detail.
   V.   A statement indicating what, if any, warranties apply to the
condominium unit, common elements and personal property of the condominium
project, and all warranties specifically excluded.
   W.   Each property report shall contain on the front page the following
warning in capital letters, in a type size and style equal to at least ten (10)
point bold type:
VILLAGE OF LAKE VILLA LAW SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITS ANY REPRESENTATION TO THE
EFFECT THAT THE VILLAGE HAS PASSED UPON THE MERITS OF OR GIVEN APPROVAL TO MAKE
OR CAUSE TO BE MADE TO ANY PROSPECTIVE PURCHASER ANY REPRESENTATIONS WHICH
DIFFER FROM THE STATEMENTS IN THIS PROPERTY REPORT. ORAL REPRESENTATIONS CANNOT
BE RELIED UPON AS CORRECTLY STATING THE REPRESENTATIONS OF THE DEVELOPER AND
ARE NOT BINDING ON THE DEVELOPER. REFER TO THE PROPERTY REPORT FOR CORRECT
REPRESENTATIONS.
   X.   A statement of whether, and under what circumstances, the unit owners
are required to be a member of, support, or participate financially in
recreational facilities, such as, but not limited to, health clubs, exercise
rooms, swimming pools, party rooms and golf putting greens. If any such
facility is not part of the common elements, the following warning shall be
included in capital letters in a type size and style equal to at least ten (10)
point type:
THE (HERE NAME FACILITIES) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE COMMON ELEMENTS. THESE
FACILITIES ARE AVAILABLE TO UNIT OWNER FOR (HERE DESCRIBE MONTHLY CHARGE AND
INITIATION FEE). UNIT OWNERS ARE/ARE NOT (AS APPLICABLE) REQUIRED TO
PARTICIPATE FINANCIALLY.
   Y.   A statement as to the existence of the Lake Villa condominium
conversion ordinance and availability of a copy of same from the village
clerk's office.
   Z.   The person or persons having a majority beneficial or legal interest in
the ownership of the condominium project as of the date of the property report
shall sign the property report and affirm that it and any supplements,
modifications and amendments are true, full, complete and correct. (Ord. 88-2-
3)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Amendments To Reports
12-3-2: Payment For Common Expenses Exceeding Estimate
12-3-3: Retention Of Documents
12-3-4: Transfer Of Control
12-3-5: Designation Of Parking
12-3-6: Lease Of Common Elements; Contracts
12-3-7: Escrow Account
12-3-8: Warranty
12-3-9: Inspection Of Records
12-3-10: False Advertising
12-3-11: Restrictions On Advertising And Sale
12-3-12: Notice Requirement
12-3-13: Discrimination
12-3-14: Additional Requirements Of Developer
12-3-1: AMENDMENTS TO REPORTS:
The developer shall amend the property report from time to time when any
material changes occur in any matter contained in such reports. Amendments
shall be made within thirty (30) days after such change occurs or the developer
has reason to know of such change. Amendments shall be sent to the village
building department prior to distribution of the amendments to prospective
purchasers and prior purchasers. Amendments shall also be attached to reports
subsequently distributed to prospective purchasers and shall be immediately
distributed to all purchasers of condominium units. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-2: PAYMENT FOR COMMON EXPENSES EXCEEDING ESTIMATE:
The developer will be held financially responsible for any intentional
misrepresentations in his budget analysis as required by section 12-2-1 of this
title. For the purposes of this title, intentional misrepresentation shall mean
the underestimate of such total operating budget by the developer by at least
twenty percent (20%). The developer shall pay all operating expenses for any
year which exceed his estimates for the year by twenty percent (20%). (Ord. 88-
2-3)
12-3-3: RETENTION OF DOCUMENTS:
The board of managers shall keep a copy of the latest property report for seven
(7) years following the date of the property report's initial distribution.
Upon reasonable notice the property report shall be made available for
inspection by any prospective purchaser of a unit from a unit owner. (Ord. 88-
2-3)
12-3-4: TRANSFER OF CONTROL:
Every declaration recorded pursuant to the Illinois condominium property act
after the effective date of this title shall provide that when seventy five
percent (75%) of the condominium units are sold or no later than three (3)
years after the closing on the sale of the first unit, the control over the
condominium project shall be transferred to the board of managers. (Ord. 88-2-
3)
12-3-5: DESIGNATION OF PARKING:
No developer shall record a declaration or plat unless parking facilities are
located on or within the condominium property and are: a) included in the
common elements, or b) are divided as individual parking spaces among and
designated as being a part of the condominium project. At least two (2) spaces
shall be provided for each unit in the project, except for those buildings
constructed prior to August 1, 1987, in which case one and one- half (11/2)
spaces for each unit will be permitted, or where a variation by ordinance has
previously been granted by the village permitting less parking. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-6: LEASE OF COMMON ELEMENTS; CONTRACTS:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by the board of managers, no lease of common
elements and no service or management contract relating to the condominium
shall be valid longer than one year after the board of managers assumes control
of the condominium, and no developer shall enter into such a lease for any
longer period.
   B.   The developer may not require, nor, except as established by the board
of managers following assumption of control by unit purchasers, may the
condominium bylaws require that a unit owner be a member of or participate in
recreational or similar facilities which are not owned in fee simple the unit
owners or by an association in which they are members, individually or through
the board of managers. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-7: ESCROW ACCOUNT:
The developer shall establish an escrow with a bank or trust company having
trust powers, an attorney who is a member of the Illinois Bar, or title company
authorized to do business in Illinois, with whom shall be deposited any
deposit, payment or advance in payment of the purchase price other than payment
for extra work ordered in writing. The conditions and release of escrowed funds
shall conform to the following:
   A.   If a purchaser properly terminates the contract of purchase, the
escrowed funds shall be paid to said purchaser free of the cost of escrow.
   B.   Prior to the closing of sale, no funds shall be paid to the developer
from escrowed funds, except upon a default by the purchaser.
   C.   The developer shall cause funds to be placed in a separate account
designated for this purpose, and shall bear interest of at least five percent
(5%) per year, all such interest to be credited to the purchaser on the
purchase price of the unit.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any payment received
on account for the purchase of a completed condominium unit under articles of
agreement for deed, installment agreement for deed, or lease with option to
purchase, if the agreement provides for conveyance of title more than one year
after the date of execution of the agreement.
   E.   Escrowed funds shall not be subject to the attachment by the creditors
of any party to the escrow or by the holder of a lien against any portion of
the property.
   F.   The cost of such escrow shall be borne by the developer. (Ord. 88-2-3;
amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
12-3-8: WARRANTY:
The developer shall warranty that all major repairs to the roof, foundation,
external and supporting walls, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and structural
elements, shall be performed at the expense of the developer up to the date
control of the condominium project passes to the board of managers. The
warranty shall include any repairs and expenses actually incurred, the payment
of which shall not be taken from any reserves established as set forth herein,
and shall further include any repairs which the developer, in the exercise of
sound discretion, should have made prior to the transfer of control. The
warranty shall not include the cost of normal, routine maintenance; which
expense is included in the regular monthly assessment period. The warranty
shall extend for an additional six (6) month period after such transfer date
except for any repairs caused by the failure of the board of managers to
provide adequate or necessary maintenance. In addition, thereto, any sale
agreement for the sale of a condominium unit under the provisions of this title
shall contain a warranty that the unit is in good condition, free from any
latent or patent defects and that the developer shall repair or replace any
defect in said unit at the developer's sole cost promptly upon being notified
of such defect, in writing by the purchaser; provided, however, that such
notice of defect must be delivered to the developer within one year from
closing of the sale of the condominium unit, and further provided that such
warranty may be waived by any unit purchaser in consideration of a reduction in
the purchase price. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-9: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to allow unit owners to inspect the
financial books and records of the condominium project within three (3)
business days of the time written request for examination of the records is
received by the person or entity having possession of the records. (Ord. 88-2-
3)
12-3-10: FALSE ADVERTISING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise, sell or offer for sale any
condominium unit by employing any false or misleading statement of a material
fact, or to omit any material fact required to be stated or necessary to make
the statements made not misleading. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-11: RESTRICTIONS ON ADVERTISING AND SALE:
A developer shall not advertise the sale of, or enter into an agreement or
contract for the sale of any condominium unit unless:
   A.   A property report is available for distribution to prospective
purchasers.
   B.   Copies of all documents that were filed or required to be filed in
connection with the condominium project with the registrar of titles or
recorder of deeds of the county in which the property is located are available
to prospective purchasers.
   C.   A copy of the property report, and any amendments, modifications and
supplements thereto have been given to the prospective purchaser upon his visit
to the site or upon his request for information.
   D.   The prospective purchaser has been given an opportunity to read the
property report.
   E.   A receipt signed by the prospective purchaser has been received by the
developer or agent acknowledging that the prospective purchaser has received
and has had an opportunity to review the property report. Such receipts are to
be kept on file in the possession of the developer for a period of three (3)
years from the date of signature of the prospective purchaser and such receipts
are subject to the inspection by the department at any reasonable time.
   F.   The property report, and any amendments and supplements thereto, are
available for inspection by the public, and copies of same have been delivered
to the department. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-12: NOTICE REQUIREMENT:
   A.   No less than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the recording of
the declaration pursuant to the Illinois condominium property act, the
developer shall give written notice to each tenant of any building being
converted, of the intent to submit the property to the act.
Any developer of a conversion condominium must, upon issuing the notice of
intent, publish and deliver along with such notice of intent, a schedule of
selling prices for all units subject to the condominium instruments and offer
to sell such unit to the current tenants, except for units to be vacated for
rehabilitation subsequent to such notice of intent. Such offer shall not expire
earlier than thirty (30) days after receipt of the offer by the current tenant,
unless the tenant notifies the developer in writing of his election not to
purchase the condominium unit.
   B.   For a period of one hundred twenty (120) days following his receipt of
the notice of intent (180 days for the elderly or handicapped), any tenant who
was a tenant on the date of the notice of intent was given shall be given the
right to purchase his unit on substantially the same terms and conditions as
set forth in a duly executed contract to purchase the unit, which contract
shall conspicuously disclose the existence of, and shall be subject to, the
right of first refusal. The tenant may exercise the right of first refusal by
giving notice thereof to the developer prior to the expiration of thirty (30)
days from the giving of notice by the developer to the tenant of the execution
of the contract to purchase the unit. The recording of the deed conveying the
unit to the purchaser which contains a statement to the effect that the tenant
of the unit either waived or failed to exercise the right of first refusal or
had no right of first refusal with respect to the unit shall extinguish any
legal or equitable right or interest to the possession or acquisition of the
unit which the tenant may have or claim or claim with respect to the unit
arising out of the right of first refusal provided for in this section. The
foregoing provision shall not affect any claim which the tenant may have
against the landlord for damages arising out of the right of first refusal
provided for in this section.
   C.   Any tenant who was a tenant as of the date of the notice of intent and
whose tenancy expires (other than for cause) prior to the expiration of one
hundred twenty (120) days, (180 days for the elderly or handicapped) from the
date on which a copy of the notice of intent was given to the tenant, shall
have the right to extend his tenancy on the same terms and conditions and for
the same rental until the expiration of such one hundred twenty (120) or one
hundred eighty (180) day period, as appropriate, by the giving of written
notice thereof to the developer within thirty (30) days of the date upon which
a copy of the notice of intent was given to the tenant by the developer.
Each tenant in a condominium conversion shall be informed by the developer at
the time the notice of intent is given whether his tenancy will be renewed or
terminated upon its expiration. If the tenancy is to be reviewed, the tenant
shall be informed of all charges, rental or otherwise, in connection with the
new tenancy and the length of the term of occupancy proposed in conjunction
with the new tenancy and the length of the term of occupancy proposed in
conjunction therewith.
   D.   Notwithstanding lease provisions to the contrary, the tenant's premises
will not be shown to prospective purchasers without the tenant's permission
until the expiration of the tenant's option to purchase or ninety (90) days
prior to the end of the term of the tenant's lease, whichever is later.
   E.   No lease or other agreement for the rental of property shall contain
any provision which authorizes the lessor to terminate the lease less than one
hundred twenty (120) days (180 days for the elderly or handicapped) from notice
of intent to convert as a part of any operation or transaction incident to such
a conversion. No such provision of any lease or other agreement entered into
after the effective day of this chapter shall be given any force or effect, and
such provisions are declared to be void.
   F.   Any notice provided for in this section shall be deemed given when a
written notice is delivered in person or mailed, certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, to the party who is being given the notice. (Ord. 88-
2-3)
12-3-13: DISCRIMINATION:
No person shall be denied the right to purchase or lease a unit because of
race, religion, sex, marital status or national origin. (Ord. 88-2-3)
12-3-14: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF DEVELOPER:
The developer shall be required to pay the maintenance, service, assessment
and/or management fees for each unsold unit through the closing date of the
sale of the unit. The fees for each such unsold unit shall be the same and
would be attributed to a like sold unit. (Ord. 88-2-3)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
SECTION:
12-4-1: Penalty
12-4-1: PENALTY:
Any person convicted or found liable of violating any of the provisions of this
title shall be subject to mandatory fines as specified from time to time in
Section
1-18-1 of this Village Code for each offense. Each day a violation exists or
continues or is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
In addition to any penalty which may be imposed herein, the village may
initiate injunctive relief, including the issuance of temporary restraining
orders and preliminary injunctions in the circuit court of Lake County to abate
any violation of this title the continuation of which would be injurious to the
welfare of the residents or which would frustrate or defect the intent of this
title. (Ord. 88-2-3; amd. Ord. 2024-12-03, 12-2-2024)
 
