CITY CODE
of
LANARK, ILLINOIS
1982
Code current through:
Ord. 1014, passed June 3, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Lanark, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 1014, passed June 3, 2025. Ordinances of the City adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF THE CITY OF
LANARK; PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUANCE IN EFFECT OF ALL GENERAL LAWS IN EFFECT
ON THE DATE OF SUCH ADOPTION PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUANCE OF ALL SPECIAL
ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED IN THE OFFICIAL CODE; AND PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF
AMENDING SUCH CODE.
BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Lanark, County of Carroll and
State of Illinois:
Section One: That the City Code of the City of Lanark, consisting of Chapters 1
to 10, each inclusive, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "City Code of the
City of Lanark, Illinois" containing all ordinances of a general nature in
effect at the time of such codification.
Section Two: That the City Code of the City of Lanark, Illinois shall be
accepted in all Courts as the Official Code and Law of the City as enacted by
the Mayor and City Council.
Section Three: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official
City Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and
the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
Governing Body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said Official City Code.
Section Four: All ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances,
bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation shall continue
in full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision
of the City Code. Such ordinances, while remaining in full force and effect,
shall not be included in this Official City Code.
Section Five: That any and all additions and amendments to such City Code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the City Council to make
the same a part thereof shall be deemed to be incorporated in such City Code so
that reference to the "City Code of the City of Lanark, Illinois" shall be
understood and intended to include such additions and amendments.
Section Six: That a copy of such City Code shall be kept on file in the
possession of the City Clerk preserved in looseleaf form, or in such other form
as the City Clerk may consider most expedient. It shall be the express duty of
the City Clerk, or someone authorized by him, to insert in their designated
places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the intention of the City
Council to make the same a part of such City Code when the same have been
printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such City Code all
provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the City Council. This
copy of such code shall be available for all persons desiring to examine the
same.
Section Seven: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section Eight: That this Ordinance shall be in full force from and after ten
days from the publication thereof.
 
Passed this            day of                , 19     , A.D.
Ayes          Nays          Present          Absent         
                  ________________________________
                  City Clerk
ATTEST:
_________________________
City Clerk
Approved by me this       day of               , 1982 , A.D.
Filed and published this      day of           , 1982 A.D., as provided by law.
                                 
__________________________
Mayor
__________________________
City Clerk
Motion to pass Ordinance made by Alderman
Motion 2nd by Alderman
Roll call vote:
Alderman Geary   
Alderman Feltmeyer   
Alderman Geisz   
Alderman Nelson   
Alderman Colberg   
Alderman Baxter   
LANARK CHARTER
NOTE
   The Town of Lanark was granted a charter by the State Legislature on
February 28, 1867. This charter was subsequently amended by a second act of the
State Legislature on March 26, 1869. The Town of Lanark then operated under
said charters until 1876 when an election took place to form the City of
Lanark.
AN ACT
TO INCORPORATE THE TOWN OF LANARK
   Sec 1. Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois, represented in
the General Assembly, that the inhabitants of the Town of Lanark, in the county
of Carroll, and state of Illinois, are hereby constituted a body politic and
corporate, by the name and style of "The President and Trustees of the Town of
Lanark"; and, by that name and style, shall have perpetual succession, and may
have the use of a common seal, which they may change or alter at pleasure, and
in whom the government of the corporation shall be vested, and by whom its
affairs shall be managed.
   Sec. 2. The inhabitants of said town, by the name and style aforesaid, may
sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, defend and be defended, in all
courts of law and in all actions whatever; and purchase, receive and hold
property, real and personal, within or beyond the limits of said town, for
burial grounds and for other public purposes, for the use of the inhabitants of
said town, and may sell, lease and dispose of property, real and personal for
the benefit of said town, and improve and protect such property, and do all
things in relation thereto as natural persons.
   Sec. 3. That the boundaries of said corporation shall include the lands
described by and within the following boundaries, being in the county of
Carroll, and state of Illinois, to wit: The several additions, as herein
described, made to the original plat of said town by John Nycum and Richard
Irvin and surveyed by Elijah Funk, county surveyor, as follows: Frank Smith's
addition, Richard Irvin's addition, and David B. Longs addition to the town of
Lanark, including the street separating Richard Irvin's addition, above named,
from David B. Longs addition, above named; also, the following described tract
of land, be and is hereby declared to be henceforth included within said
incorporation to wit: Beginning at the south-east corner of David B. Longs
addition to the town of Lanark; thence due south seventeen and one third (171/
3) rods; thence due west ninety (90) rods, to a point on the public road
running south from Broad street, in said town; thence due north seventeen and
one third (171/3) rods to the south-west corner of Richard Irvin's addition to
the said town; thence due east ninety (90) rods, to the place of beginning; and
further, that the following tract of land be and is hereby declared to be a
part of and included within the corporation of said town, to wit: Beginning at
the north-east corner of David B. Longs addition to the town of Lanark; thence
due north to the tract of the Western Union Railroad Company; thence west to
the north-west corner of block number one, of Richard Irvin's addition to the
said town; thence due south to the south-east corner of block number one, of
Richard Irvin's addition aforesaid; thence east thirty-three feet; thence
south, again, to the north-west corner of David B. Long's addition, aforesaid;
thence due east to place of beginning--the said boundaries including a part of
the north- west and a part of the north-east and a part of the south-east and a
part of the south-west quarters of section number five (5), of township number
twenty-four (24), range six (6) east of the fourth (4) principal meridian.
   Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, that the trustees of said corporation of
Lanark have power to add to the said corporation from time to time, such
portions of territory which may by them be considered to be to the interest of
said corporation, not to exceed one mile square, as is prescribed at present by
the statutes of the state of Illinois. The present president and trustees of
said town, as at present incorporated under the general act of incorporation,
are hereby appointed trustees of said town, and shall hold their office until
the first Tuesday in September next and until their successors are elected and
qualified; and on the first Tuesday in September of every year thereafter, an
election shall be held for five (5) trustees of said town, who shall hold their
office for
   1
Charter   2
one year and until their successors are elected and qualified; and ten days'
public notice of the time and place of holding any election for trustees shall
be given by their clerk, by advertising in any weekly paper published in said
town or by posting up notices in three of the most public places in said town.
No person shall be elected a trustee of said town who shall not be qualified to
vote for state and county officers and who shall not be and have been for six
(6) months previous to such election a resident within the corporate limits of
said town; nor shall any person, unless he is entitled to vote for state and
county officers and be and have been an actual resident of said town for sixty
(60) days next preceding an election, be entitled to vote for trustees or other
town officers within the corporate limits thereof.
   Sec. 5. There shall elected, at the first regular election, corporation
officers, and every four years thereafter, a corporation justice of the peace,
who shall hold his office in said corporation, and shall have all power and
jurisdiction of other justices of the peace, who shall give bond, be
commissioned and qualified in the same manner as other justices. At the
election of which said justice is to be chosen, the officers of election, as
judges and clerks, shall make out and forward to the county clerk of Carroll
county returns of the same, exactly as in the election of the other justices of
the peace. Said justices shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all suits
growing out of a violation of any of the ordinances of the corporation, except
in case of his absence or inability to serve, when the next nearest justice in
the county shall have power to act.
   Sec. 6. Appeals and changes of venue may be taken and writs of certiorari
allowed from the decisions of the justices of the peace in matters growing out
of a violation of any ordinance of the corporation the same as in other cases
before justices of the peace. Any failure to hold the first election under this
act, at the specified time, shall not work a forfeiture thereof, but the said
election may be held at any day thereafter, by giving proper notice within
thirty days.
   Sec. 7. That the trustees shall elect one of their number president, and
shall be judges of the election, qualifications and returns of their own
members, a majority of whom shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance of absent
members, in such manner and under such penalties as they may provide, and
punish their members for disorderly conduct, and, by a vote of three-fifths of
the whole number elected, expel a member, and make such other rules and
regulations for their government as to them may seem proper and expedient, and
shall have power to fill any vacancy in the board of trustees, occasioned by
death, resignation, removal, or continued absence from town for three months or
otherwise.
   Sec. 8. The board of trustees of said town shall have power to make
regulations to secure the general health of the inhabitants; to declare what
shall be a nuisance, and prevent and remove the same; to provide the town with
water; to dig wells, erect hydrants and pumps in the streets for the
convenience of the public; to open, alter, extend, establish, grade, plank,
pave, and in any other way or manner improve and keep in repair all streets,
avenues, lanes and alleys, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains and sewers; to
establish, erect and keep in repair bridges; to provide for the erection of all
needful buildings for the use of the town; to provide for inclosing, improving
and regulating all public places within or belonging to the corporation,
planting trees in the streets and public squares, for ornament or shade, and
the protection of the same, to restrain and prohibit horse-racing, shooting,
indecent exposure of horses or persons, houses of ill-fame, gaming houses and
other disorderly houses, and intoxication, and to suppress the same; to provide
for taxing, licensing and regulating theatrical or other shows or amusements,
for the admission to which money or anything is charged; to regulate and
license peddlers and auctioneers; the exclusive power to regulate, prohibit or
license the selling or spirituous, vinous or malt liquors, of any kind, as a
beverage, within the limits of the corporation.
   Sec. 9. To restrain and prohibit the running at large of any horses, mules,
cattle, sheep, swine, goats or dogs, within said corporate limits; to erect
market houses; to establish markets and market places; and provide for the use,
government and regulations thereof; to fix the rates to be
3   Charter
charged for carriage of persons and property within the limits of the
incorporation, by carriages, wagons, sleighs or drays; to provide for the
preservation from and extinguishment of fires; to establish and regulate the
fire department; to regulate the storage of gunpowder and other combustible
material to regulate the sale of game; to regulate the speed at which railroad
locomotives and cars shall be driven or horses rode through or within the
limits of said incorporation; to establish and regulate the police of the town;
to regulate the election of the officers of the incorporation, and to provide
for their compensation; to provide for the inspection and weighing of hay and
coal, the measurement of charcoal, firewood and other fuel, to be sold or used
within the incorporation; to make all such ordinances, from time to time, and
alter, amend or repeal the same, as shall be necessary to carry into effect and
execution the powers specified in this act, so that the same be not
inconsistent herewith nor with the constitution of this state or of the United
States; to impose fines, forfeitures and penalties upon any officer of the
incorporation, and to provide for the recovery and appropriation of any such
fine, penalty or forfeiture; to provide for the infliction of fines or
penalties upon any officer of the incorporation neglecting or refusing to
perform any duty or act required of such officers in this act to be done; to
cause, from time to time, a census of the inhabitants of said town to be taken;
to appoint an attorney for the said incorporation, and fix the amount of his
fees and compensation.
   Sec. 10. To establish and maintain a public pound and appoint a poundmaster
and prescribe his duties; to restrain and prohibit all descriptions of gambling
and fraudulent devices, and to suppress or prohibit or license and control
billiard tables, ball alleys and other like establishments.
   Sec. 11. The president and trustees shall have power to appoint a town or
corporation constable for said town, whose duty it shall be, when so appointed
and sworn into office, to execute anywhere in Carroll county any writ, process
or precept which may be issued against any person or persons for the violation
of any ordinance of said corporation, and to arrest on view or otherwise, any
person or persons who may violate the same and to take them before any justice
of the peace of said town, and to collect any fine, forfeiture or penalty which
may be assessed or recovered, for the use of said town; also, to appoint a
clerk, treasurer, street commissioner, board of health, and all other officers
that may be necessary, and to prescribe their duties, and shall require bonds,
from the several officers for the faithful discharge of their duties.
   Sec. 12. The trustees, in the absence of the corporation constable, may
appoint a special constable or constables, whose duties for the time being
shall be the same as herein specified for corporation constable. The street
commissioner, under the direction of the trustees, shall have the immediate
supervision of the streets and the superintendence of street labor. The
president and trustees shall have power to make all necessary ordinances, -- to
compel the removal of all obstructions in any streets, alleys, sidewalks or
public places within the corporate limits. The board of trustees, together with
the president, shall receive a compensation of one dollar each for each regular
meeting which they attend. The treasurer, clerk, and street commissioner shall
receive for their services, respectively, such compensation as the trustees may
direct or allow.
   Sec. 13. The president and trustees shall require their clerk, and it shall
be his duty, to make and keep a full and faithful record of all their
proceedings, by-laws and ordinances, and of the time, place and manner of the
publications of such ordinances and by-laws, in a book to be provided for that
purpose, and such book, purporting to be a record of the corporation of the
town of Lanark, shall be received in all courts, without further proof, as
evidence of all matters therein contained. And all ordinances, before taking
effect, shall be published at least ten days in a newspaper published in said
town or by posting up copies of the same in three public places in said town.
The president and trustees shall hold twelve regular monthly meetings in each
year, and, at the request of the president or a majority of the trustees, may
call special meetings whenever by them deemed necessary, and may publish the
proceedings of each meeting in a newspaper printed in said town. They shall,
also, at the close of each fiscal year, publish a full statement of receipts
and disbursements, stating separately each sum paid out, to whom paid and for
what purposes, also for receipts into the treasury, except the general tax;
they shall state the items separately, from whom received, for what purpose,
and the amount.
Charter   4
   Sec. 14. Any fine, penalty or forfeiture incurred under this act or any by-
laws or ordinance made in pursuance of this act, may be recovered, together
with costs, before any justice of the peace, in the corporate name, not
exceeding seventy-five dollars; and the first process shall be a summons,
unless oath or affirmation be made for a warrant by some credible person. It
shall be lawful to declare, generally, for debt, for fines, for such fines,
penalties or forfeitures, stating the clause of this act or the ordinance or
by-laws under which the same are claimed, and to give the special matter in
evidence under the declaration; and the justice shall proceed to hear and
determine the case as in other cases. Upon the rendition of judgment for any
such fines, penalties or forfeitures, the justice shall issue his execution for
the same and costs of suits, which may be levied upon any personal property of
the defendant or defendants, not exempt from execution; and if no property be
found, the constable shall, by virtue of said process, arrest such person or
persons and commit him or them to the jail of said county to remain forty-eight
hours; and if the judgment and costs exceed five dollars then to remain in
close custody in said jail twenty-four hours for every two dollars over and
above the said five dollars; and so in proportion to the amount of the judgment
and costs, unless otherwise discharged by law: Provided, that whenever the said
town shall have finished a suitable prison for securing offenders the town
prison may be substituted for the county jail: Provided, further, an appeal may
be granted within five days after the rendition of judgment with the same force
and effect, rights and privileges to all parties, as in other cases.
   Sec. 15. The justice of the peace and constable who may render service under
this act shall be entitled to the same fees and collect them in the same manner
as is or hereinafter may be provided by law in other cases.
   Sec. 16. The president and trustees shall not be required, in suits
instituted under this act or ordinances passed by virtue thereof, to file any
security for costs, except in cases of appeal by them taken.
   Sec. 17. All fines, forfeitures and penalties received or collected for the
breach of any ordinance (or) of this act, shall be paid into the treasury of
said corporation by the officer or person receiving or collecting the same.
   Sec. 18. The board of trustees may grant license to sell spirituous or other
liquors or withhold the same, in their discretion, upon the following
conditions:
   First. The applicant shall pay into the treasury of the corporation, for the
privilege granted, a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars nor less than
twenty-five, in the discretion of the board of trustees.
   Second. The applicant shall execute a bond, in the penal sum of one thousand
dollars, with one or more securities, to be approved by said board, conditioned
that the applicant will in all respects keep an orderly house and will not
permit unlawful gaming or any uncivil conduct.
   Sec. 19. But no license for any purpose shall be granted to extend beyond
the period when the successors to the board granting the same shall be elected
and qualified.
   Sec. 20. Every person or corporation, not having a license to do so from
said board of trustees, who shall sell, barter or dispose of any spirituous,
vinous, mixed or malt liquors in said town, except those persons licensed as
druggists with their instructions as prescribed by ordinance, shall be subject
to a fine of not exceeding seventy five (75) dollars or an imprisonment not
exceeding twenty days for each offense, at the discretion of the justice of the
peace before whom the case may be heard.
   Sec. 21. No fine or forfeiture for a violation of any ordinance or by-law of
said incorporation, made under the provisions of this act, shall in any one
case exceed seventy-five dollars.
5   Charter
   Sec. 22. The board of trustees of the said town of Lanark shall have power,
annually, to levy a tax upon all the taxable property in said town, for town
purposes, of an amount not exceeding one per cent, which shall be returned to
the board of supervisors of said county of Carroll and by them levied and
entered upon the collector's book of the township of Rock Creek, (within the
limits whereof said town of Lanark is situated) to be by him collected and paid
to the treasurer of said town of Lanark, said tax to be levied upon the
assessment roll returned by the assessor of said township of Rock Creek for the
year in which the said tax is levied.
   Sec. 23. That for the purpose of altering, opening, extending, establishing,
grading, planking, paving and in any other way or manner improving and keeping
in repair streets, avenues, lanes and alleys, sidewalks, crosswalks, bridges,
drains and sewers, the said board of trustees are authorized to require every
able-bodied male resident within the corporate limits, who is not under twenty-
one years of age and not over fifty-five, to labor on said streets or public
roads, not less than one nor more than two days in each and every year, as poll
tax; and any person failing to perform said labor, either by himself or an able
substitute, when duly notified by the street commissioner, shall forfeit and
pay the sum of two dollars per day for each day so neglected or refused, or
they may commute for the same by paying to the trustees, through the street
commissioner, the sum of one dollar and fifty cents for each day assessed. The
said trustees may also assess a road tax upon all taxable property within the
corporation limits, in the same manner and to the same extent as is now done by
the commissioners of highways; and for the collection of road taxes,
commutation money and penalties, the trustees are authorized to adopt the same
measures as are provided by law for the commissioners of highways, so far as
the same may be applicable to this act, and to make such ordinances as shall be
necessary for the collection of the aforesaid tax, such ordinances being
consistent with this act and the laws and the constitution of this state; they
may, also, on petition, grant the right of way on or over any of the public
streets or ground of the incorporation to any railroad company asking to locate
or build a road through the corporate limits, and make all needful arrangements
with such companies for the location of depots or stations. Said trustees may
also order the construction of sidewalks upon any streets or part of street
within the limits of the corporation.
   Sec. 24. All actions for the breach of any ordinance of said town or of the
provisions of the charter thereof shall be in the name of the president and
trustees of the town of Lanark. The process shall be by complaint of any person
or persons before any justice of the peace hereinbefore named, which justice
shall thereupon issue his warrant to bring the offender or offenders before
him: Provided, that in case such violation shall be made under the sight of the
town or corporation constable, that the offender or offenders may be arrested
by him, on view, without complaint of any person or persons, as above
prescribed; and after hearing the evidence, if it shall appear that the person
or persons arrested are guilty of the offense charged, the said justice shall
fine or impose imprisonment upon such offender, in his discretion, subject to
the provisions of this act.
   Sec. 25. All ordinances, by-laws, and resolutions passed by the president
and trustees of the town of Lanark, as incorporated under the general laws and
which are now in force and not inconsistent herewith, shall remain in force
until the same shall be repealed by the president and trustees of the
corporation created by this act.
   Sec. 26. All actions, rights, fines, penalties and forfeitures, in suit or
otherwise, which have accrued or have been commenced by the president and
trustees of said town, incorporated under the general law, shall be vested in
and preserved to the corporation hereby created.
   Sec. 27. All property, real or personal, or any estate or interest therein,
held or belonging to the president and trustees of the said town of Lanark, as
incorporated under the general law, for the use of the inhabitants thereof,
shall be and the same are hereby declared to be vested in the corporation
hereby created.
Charter   6
   Sec. 28. This charter shall not invalidate any act done by the president and
trustees of the town of Lanark, as at present incorporated; and all taxes
assessed in favor of said corporation and which have not yet been paid into the
treasury thereof shall, when collected, be paid into the treasury of the
corporation hereby created.
   Sec. 29. The board of trustees may make all necessary ordinances, not
inconsistent with this act and the constitution of this state, to carry into
operation all the provisions of this act.
   Sec. 30. And be it further enacted, that "An act to incorporate the town of
Lanark," land for which this act is a substitute) approved February 28, 1867,
be and the same is hereby repealed.
   Sec. 31. This act is hereby declared to be a public act, and may be read in
evidence in all courts of law or equity within the state, without proof.
   Sec. 32. This act to take effect and be in force from and after the date of
its passage.
APPROVED March 26, 1869.
   --------------------
The following is a statement of the result of the canvass of votes by ballot at
the Election in the Town of Lanark in the County of Carroll State of Illinois
on Tuesday May 2d A.D. 1876 as returned by the Judges of Election to the
President and Trustees of said Town and canvassed by said President and
Trustees as follows, to-wit:
 
For City organization under general law         98
Received Ninety Eight Votes
Against City organization under general law     5
Received Five Votes
For Minority representation in City council     7
Received Seven Votes
Against Minority representation in City council 95
Received Ninety Five Votes
Carroll County )
               )SS.
City of Lanark )
 
I Joseph Wiltsey City clerk of said city of Lanark do hereby certify that the
foregoing is a true and correct transcript from the original book of records of
said city wherein is contained the entry or record of all such matters as
relate to the acts and doings of the President and Trustees of said City.
In witness whereof have hereunto set my hand and seal this sixth day of July
A.D. 1876.
Joseph Wiltsey City Clerk (Seal)
(Endorsements)
FILED Jul. 7, 1876,
Geo. H. Harlow Sec'y of State.
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL
ARTICLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
   
1-1-1: Title
   
1-1-2: Acceptance
   
1-1-3: Catchlines of Sections
   
1-1-4: Amendments to Code
   
1-1-5: Code Alteration or Tampering
   
1-1-6: Record of Ordinances
   
1-1-7: Publication of Ordinances
   
1-1-8: Effective Date of Ordinances
   
1-1-9: Jurisdiction
1-1-1: TITLE
   The ordinances embraced in the following articles and sections shall
constitute and be designated the "Municipal Code, City of Lanark, Illinois,"
and may be so cited. 1
 
Notes
1 1. For revision and codification of ordinances, see S.H.A. ch. 24, 1-2-3 et
  seq.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE
   This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent
effect.
1-1-3: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS
   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be title of such sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS TO CODE
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this Code, and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
articles, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby and the subsequent ordinances as numbered
and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
such subsequent ordinances until such time as this Municipal Code and
subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new Municipal Code
by the City Council.
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION OR TAMPERING
   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or
deface in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of said
Clerk.
   Any person having in his custody an official copy of this City Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code Books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of the City
Council.
1-1-6: RECORD OF ORDINANCES
   A.   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall be deposited in the
office of the City Clerk and shall be duly recorded by the City Clerk in the
record book of ordinances and appropriately indexed by their title or subjects.
   B.   The City Clerk shall file and carefully preserve the originals of all
ordinances deposited in his office. He may correct errors in the numbering of
any section of any ordinance, and insert the proper numbers, and correct
clerical mistakes.
   C.   The City Clerk shall make at the foot of the record of each ordinance
recorded a memorandum of the date of its passage, and the date of its passage,
and the date of its publication, when required to be published, which record or
memorandum or a certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence of passage
and legal publication of such ordinance for all purposes.
1-1-7: PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES
   A.   The City Clerk shall cause every ordinance of the City Council making
any appropriation or imposing any fine, penalty, forfeiture or imprisonment, to
be printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the Council, or
to be published at least once in some newspaper printed and published in the
County of Carroll, State of Illinois, and generally circulated in the City of
Lanark, within ten (10) days after the passage thereof. It shall be his duty to
see that the same is correctly printed and published.
   B.   The revised ordinances of the City, when published in book or pamphlet
form by authority of the Council, shall be deposited in the office of the City
Clerk.
1-1-8: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES
   All ordinances of the City Council required to be published shall take
effect ten (10) days after publication. All other ordinances, resolutions and
orders shall take effect and be in force from and after their passage unless
otherwise therein provided.
1-1-9: JURISDICTION
   This Code applies to acts performed within the City limits of the City and
to those acts performed outside the City limits and up to the limits prescribed
by law in those instances, where the law confers power on the City to regulate
such acts outside the City limits.
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
   
1-2-1: General Rules of Construction
   
1-2-2: Definitions, General
1-2-1: GENERAL RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
   Whenever any word in any section of an ordinance importing the plural number
is used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included. The words "person,
firm or corporation," shall be deemed to include any association or
organization of any kind. Words in the present shall include the future. The
words "this ordinance" shall be held and taken to mean the entire enactment,
including each and every section thereof.
1-2-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL 1
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto, unless the specific Statute referred to contains its own
definitions which are in conflict with the general definitions listed below in
which case the specific definitions contained in said Statute shall be
controlling.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
ALDERMEN: Refers to the elected members of the City Council.
CITY: The City of Lanark, Carroll County, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL, COUNCIL: Whenever the words "Council" or "City Council" are used,
they shall be construed to mean the City Council of the City of Lanark.
CODE: The term "Code" or "this Code" unless otherwise specifically stated,
shall mean this City Code.
COMPUTATION of TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which such notice is given, or such act is done, shall be counted in computing
the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall not be
counted.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: Mayor and City Council.
CORPORATE or CORPORATE LIMITS of TOWN: The legal boundaries of the City of
Lanark.
COUNTY: The words "the County" or "this County" shall mean the County of
Carroll in the State of Illinois.
DELEGATION of AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a
department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some duty, it
is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer to
designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or
perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Lanark".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A term importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied
to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE: Shall mean Chapter 24 of the Illinois Revised
Statutes.
ILLINOIS REVISED STATUTES: This term shall refer to the latest publication
thereof.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Shall mean permissive.
MAYOR: The mayor of the City.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this Code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by State law.
NEGLIGENT: The term "negligent" as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature or probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NONTECHNICAL and TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words "swear" and "sworn"
shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: Whenever applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFICER: An officer of the City is a person so designated by Statute or
ordinance, to whom an oath of office is administered. Whenever reference is
made in this Code to a City officer by title only, this shall be construed as
though followed by the words "of the City of Lanark".
OFFICIAL TIME: Central Standard Time shall be the official time within the City
for the transaction of all City business provided that from two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. on the last Sunday in April in each year official time for the City shall
be advanced one hour. At two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday in October
in each year such official time shall, by the retarding of one hour, be
returned to Central Standard Time.
All legal or official proceedings of the City Council and all official business
of the City shall be regulated as to time in accordance with the provisions of
this Section. When by ordinance, resolution or action of any Municipal officer
or body an act must be performed at or within a prescribed time, it shall be
performed according to the official time as herein prescribed. When the words
"Daylight Savings" or "Daylight Savings Time" are used in any official document
or contract, it shall be understood to have reference to the time herein fixed
for the period from the last Sunday in April to the last Sunday in October.
Provided further, that when the Federal or State government provides by law
that certain times shall be in effect, then said times so specified shall be
the official times of the City.
OPERATOR: A person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
ORDINANCES: The ordinances of the City and all amendments thereto, including
this Code.
OWNER: Whenever applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Shall include the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other
form of association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights of action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Shall mean next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: As used in this Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
small quantities direct to the customer.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding terraces.
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
 
Notes
1 1. For similar rules of statutory construction, see S.H.A. ch. 1, 1001 et
  seq.
ARTICLE 3
PENALTIES
SECTION:
   
1-3-1: General Penalty
   
1-3-2: License
   
1-3-3: Specific Penalties
   
1-3-4: Continuing Violations
   
1-3-5: Responsibility For Violations
   
1-3-6: Interpretations
   
1-3-7: Minor Infractions Penalty
1-3-1: GENERAL PENALTY
   Except as otherwise provided, any person convicted of a violation of any
section or provision of this Code shall be fined in a sum not less than five
dollars ($5.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Said violation
shall be deemed a petty offense 1 . (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
1-3-2: LICENSE
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, any
license previously issued to him by the City may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the City Council. (1982 Code)
1-3-3: SPECIFIC PENALTIES
   In the event any ordinance provides for a specific penalty for the violation
of that ordinance that penalty shall be controlling rather than the general
penalty listed above. (1982 Code)
1-3-4: CONTINUING VIOLATIONS
   Each day any violation of any of the provisions of this Code or any
ordinance shall continue, shall constitute a separate offense. (1982 Code)
1-3-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS
   Every person concerned in the commission of any act prohibited by this Code,
whether he directly commits the act, or prosecutes, counsels, aids or abets in
its commission may be prosecuted and on conviction is punishable as if he had
directly committed the act. (1982 Code)
1-3-6: INTERPRETATIONS
   In the determination of the provisions of each section of this Code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   B   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section of
this Code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1982 Code)
1-3-7: MINOR INFRACTIONS PENALTY
   A.    Any person who violates selected provisions of this Code shall be
fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) if such fine is paid within ten (10) days of
the date on which the offense occurred. In the event the fine is paid within
said ten (10) day period, no formal charge will be filed in the Circuit Clerk's
office of Carroll County, Illinois, and the matter shall be considered to be
terminated. In the event said fine is not paid within ten (10) days, a formal
charge shall be filed and the fine shall be determined as provided by the
general provisions of the ordinances of the City. (Ord. 727, 7-20-1999)
   B.    The City Police Department shall have prepared a complaint form
similar in nature or identical to the one used for parking violations and shall
deliver said complaint to a person charged under an offense under this Section
either by hand delivering it to said person or mailing by first class mail to
the last known address of the person being charged. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
ARTICLE 4
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
   
1-4-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
   
1-4-2: Public Utility Ordinances
   
1-4-3: Separability
1-4-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES
   All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances.
1-4-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code
or by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this City Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provision only.
1-4-3: SEPARABILITY
   Each section and each provision or requirement of any ordinance shall be
considered separable, and the invalidity of any portion of any ordinance shall
not affect the validity or enforceability of any other portion.
ARTICLE 5
WARDS
SECTION:
   
1-5-1: City To Be Divided Into Three Wards
   
1-5-2: Boundaries Of First Ward Defined
   
1-5-3: Boundaries Of Second Ward Defined
   
1-5-4: Boundaries Of Third Ward Defined
1-5-1: CITY TO BE DIVIDED INTO THREE WARDS
   The territory embraced within the limits of the city shall be divided into
three (3) wards. (1982 Code)
1-5-2: BOUNDARIES OF FIRST WARD DEFINED
The boundaries of the first ward shall be as follows:
That part of Section 5, Township 24 North, Range 6 East of the Fourth Principal
Meridian that is situated north of the following: Beginning at the intersection
of the centerline of West Carroll Street and the west line of the Northwest
Quarter of said Section 5; thence East along said centerline to the
intersection of the centerline of Maple Lane; thence south and southeast along
said Maple Lane centerline to the centerline of Locust Street; thence east
along said Locust Street to the intersection with the centerline of Broad
Street; thence north along said Broad Street centerline to the centerline of
East Carroll Street; thence east along said Carroll Street to the centerline of
North High Street; thence south along said North High Street to the centerline
of East Locust Street; thence east along said Locust Street to the East Quarter
corner of said Section 5;
And also the following part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 4, Township 24
North, Range 6 East:
Beginning at the West Quarter corner of Section 4, Township 24 North, Range 6
East of the Fourth Principal Meridian; thence North along the west line of the
Northwest Quarter of said Section 4 to the westerly extension of the north line
of parcel 06-10-04-301-004, also being the north line of the south 154.5 feet
of Lot 13 in Block 1 of Sprogles Addition; thence east along said north line
and the north line of parcel 06-10-04-301-005 approximately 154.5 feet to the
west line of Lot 12 in said Sprogles Addition; thence north, east and south
around the perimeter of said Lot 12 to said centerline of East Locust Street;
thence west to the Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 906, 8-18-2015)
1-5-3: BOUNDARIES OF SECOND WARD DEFINED
The boundaries of the second ward shall be as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of West Carroll Street and the
west line of the Northwest Quarter of said Section 5; thence East along said
centerline to the intersection of the centerline of Maple Lane; thence south
and southeast along said Maple Lane centerline to the centerline of Locust
Street; thence east along said Locust Street to the intersection with the
centerline of Broad Street; thence south along said Broad Street to the
centerline of Illinois Route 64 East; thence west along said Route 64 to the
northeasterly extension of the easterly line of parcel 06-10-08-100-009, also
being the City of Lanark wastewater treatment facility; thence southwest, south
and west around the perimeter of said City parcel to the west line of the
Northwest Quarter of Section 8, Township 24 North, Range 6 East; thence north
along said west line of the Northwest Quarter to the northwest corner of said
Section 8; thence north along the west line of the Southwest Quarter of Section
5, Township 24 North, Range 6 East to the West Quarter Corner of said Section
5; thence north along the west line of the Northeast Quarter of said Section 5
to the Point of Beginning at the centerline of West Carroll Street.
(Ord. 906, 8-18-2015)
1-5-4: BOUNDARIES OF THIRD WARD DEFINED:
The boundaries of the third ward shall be as follows:
Beginning at the West Quarter Corner of Section 4, Township 24 North, Range 6
East of the Fourth Principal Meridian; thence east along the north line of the
Southwest Quarter of said Section 4 to the intersection with the northerly
extension of the east line of parcel 06-10-04-300-001, also being Lot 1 of the
West half of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 4 and known as 101 East
Lanark Ave.; thence south along said east line to the north line of Lot 2 of
said Northwest Quarter, also known as 105 East Lanark Avenue; thence east and
south along the north and east lines of said Lot 2 to the southeast corner of
said Lot 2; thence east to the most northerly northeast corner of parcel 06-10-
04-300-012, being the north end of a narrow strip of land extending north from
the east end of said parcel 012, also known as 205 East Lanark Avenue; thence
southerly along the east line of said parcel 012 and its southerly extension to
the most easterly southeast corner of parcel 06-10-03-300-020, also known as
207 East Lanark Avenue; thence west, south and west along the southerly
boundary of said parcel 020 to the west line of the Southwest Quarter of said
Section 4, Township 24 North, Range 6 East; thence South along said west line
to a point 354.21 feet north of the southwest corner of said Section 4; thence
east to the northeast corner of parcel 06-10-04-300-019, also known as 201
Illinois Route 64 West; thence south along the east boundary of said parcel 019
to the south line of said Southwest Quarter of Section 4; thence west along
said south line to the southwest corner of said Section 4; thence west along
the south line of the Southeast Quarter of Section 5, Township 24 North, Range
6 East to a point 665.41 feet east of the South Quarter Corner of said Section
5; thence south to the northeast corner of parcel 06-10-08-200-007, also known
as 110 East Illinois Route 64; thence continuing south 651.60 feet; thence west
334.30 feet; thence south 311.45 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 06-10-
08-200-008; thence west 331.11 feet to the southwest corner of said parcel 008;
thence north 690.78 feet; thence east 331.11 feet; thence north to said south
line of the Southeast Quarter of Section 5; thence west 311.11 feet, more or
less, to the South Quarter Corner of said Section 5; thence North along the
centerline of Broad Street to the centerline of East Carroll Street; thence
east along said East Carroll Street to the centerline of North High Street;
thence south along said North High Street to the centerline of East Locust
Street; thence east along said Locust Street to the Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 906, 8-18-2015)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE 1
MAYOR
SECTION:
   
2-1-1: Election
   
2-1-2: Duties
   
2-1-3: Appointment of Officers
   
2-1-4: Designation of Officers' Duties
   
2-1-5: Mayor Pro Tem
   
2-1-6: Acting Mayor
   
2-1-7: Formal Occasions
   
2-1-8: Bond
2-1-1: ELECTION
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four (4) year term, and shall serve until
his successor is elected and qualified as is provided by Statute.
2-1-2: DUTIES
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City, shall preside
over the meetings of the Council, and shall perform such duties as may be
required of him by Statute or ordinance. He shall have supervision over all of
the executive officers and employees of the City, and shall have the power and
authority to inspect all books and records pertaining to City affairs and kept
by any officer or employee of the City at any reasonable time.
2-1-3: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS
   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council, all officers of the City whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
2-1-4: DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS' DUTIES
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the City, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor after
consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power to
delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
2-1-5: MAYOR PRO TEM
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, the City Council
shall elect one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem, who during such absence
or disability shall possess the powers of Mayor, as is provided by Statute.
2-1-6: ACTING MAYOR
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the Council may appoint
one of its members as Acting Mayor to serve until the vacancy is filled at a
regular or special election as provided by law.
2-1-7: FORMAL OCCASIONS
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the City on formal occasions and
receptions; but in his absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Council may select any other City officer to so act.
2-1-8: BOND
Before entering upon the duties of his office the Mayor shall execute a bond in
such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the Council,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office, provided
the amount of such bond shall not be less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00)
ARTICLE 2
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
   
2-2-1: Election, Functions
   
2-2-2: Meetings
   
2-2-3: Special Meetings
   
2-2-3-1: Executive Session
   
2-2-4: Presiding Officers
   
2-2-5: Quorum
   
2-2-6: Standing Committees
   
2-2-7: Special Committees
   
2-2-8: Membership In Committees
   
2-2-9: Records
   
2-2-10: Disturbing Meetings
   
2-2-11: Order Of Business
   
2-2-12: Rescinded Action
   
2-2-13: Resolutions
   
2-2-14: Addressing Meetings
   
2-2-15: Suspension Of Rules
   
2-2-16: Robert's Rules Of Order
   
2-2-17: Electronic Attendance Of Meetings
2-2-1: ELECTION, FUNCTIONS
   The members of the city council shall be elected and serve for a four (4)
year term. The council of the city shall be composed of six (6) aldermen, two
(2) to be elected from each ward of the city. The council shall be the
legislative division of the city government and shall perform such duties and
have such powers as may be authorized by statute. (1982 Code)
2-2-2: MEETINGS
   The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Provided, that
if the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place
on the next secular day at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be held at
such times as the council may determine. (Ord. 961, 12-4-2018)
2-2-3: SPECIAL MEETINGS
   Special meetings of the council may be called by the mayor or three (3)
aldermen; provided, that a written notice of such meeting shall be given to
each member of the council at least forty eight (48) hours before the time set
for the meeting. Provided, further, that in case all of the elected members of
the council are present at any special meeting then the requirements of notice
shall be unnecessary and shall be deemed waived. (Ord. 794, 3-1-2005)
2-2-3-1: EXECUTIVE SESSION
The open meetings act requires that all meetings of public bodies be open to
the public unless the meetings or portions thereof fall within one or more of
the specific exceptions as listed in section 120/2(c) of the act 1 . The
exceptions authorize, but do not require, the holding of a closed meeting or a
closed executive session to discuss a subject included within an enumerated
exception. The exceptions for entering into a closed executive session can be
grouped under the following four (4) general headings:
   A.   Personnel/employment/appointment matters
   B.   Litigation/legal matters
   C.   Real estate/investments/business matters
   D.   Security procedures/criminal matters
   It is important to emphasize that not all subject matter or substance that
may fall under the scope of the above general headings must be discussed in a
closed executive session; only those matters within the scope of the specific
exceptions as outlined in the act 2 qualify for holding a closed session or
meeting.
   The city council, upon a majority vote of a quorum present, may vote to
close a meeting and enter into an executive session. The vote must be taken in
open session. Additional notice is not required prior to holding a closed
meeting when such meeting is part of an open meeting for which proper notice
has been given. Discussion in a closed meeting is limited to matters covered by
the exception specified in the vote to close. Voting or taking any final action
in an executive session is prohibited.
   Public act 93-0523, effective January 1, 2004, requires all closed meetings
and sessions to be audio or video taped to provide for a verbatim record.
Written minutes must also be kept of all closed meetings and sessions. (Ord.
794, 3-1-2005)
 
Notes
1 1 5 ILCS 120/2
2 2. 5 ILCS 120/2.
2-2-4: PRESIDING OFFICERS
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Council at all regular or
special meetings and when the Council meets as a Committee of the Whole. (1982
Code)
2-2-5: QUORUM
   A majority of the elected members of the Council shall constitute a quorum
thereof, but no ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall be
passed except upon the favorable vote of a majority of the elected members as
provided by statute. (1982 Code)
2-2-6: STANDING COMMITTEES
   At the organizational meeting of the City Council, the Mayor shall appoint
members to such standing committees as the City Council may create by ordinance
or resolution. The membership of such standing committees may be changed at any
time by the Mayor. The standing committees of the City Council along with terms
of reference identifying general areas of responsibility shall be as follows:
   A.   Committee On Public Relations and Economic Development:
      1.   Ensure government transparency;
      2.   Promotional activities;
      3.   Special community events and celebrations;
      4.   Website management;
      5.   Economic growth strategy;
      6.   Local business retention.
   B.   Committee On Liquor:
      1.   License classifications and fees;
      2.   Special event permits;
      3.   Sales hours;
      4.   License restrictions;
      5.   Determine penalties for violations.
   C.   Committee On Public Safety, Ordinance and Policy:
      1.   Periodic review and update of existing ordinances;
      2.   Initiation of new ordinances;
      3.   Confer with City Attorney on ordinances;
      4.   Request City Attorney to draft proposed ordinances;
      5.   Police services.
   D.   Committee On Personnel:
      1.   Staffing levels;
      2.   Performance reviews;
      3.   Training and licensing;
      4.   Employee pay, benefits and insurance;
      5.   Employee handbook/guidelines.
   E.   Committee On Purchasing/Finance:
      1.   Preparation of tentative budgets;
      2.   Prepare equipment specifications for bid advertisements;
      3.   Equipment purchase versus lease versus rental justification;
      4.   Equipment warranty, property insurance, risk management.
   F.   Committee On Properties, Streets, Water and Sewer:
      1.   Streets, alleys and other rights-of-way;
      2.   Sidewalks, curb and gutter and other public concrete areas;
      3.   Parkways and other public land/lots;
      4.   Public building improvement, construction, acquisition, disposal;
      5.   Recreational parks and plaza areas;
      6.   Stormwater system;
      7.   Potable water distribution system;
      8.   Sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 934, 2-21-2017)
2-2-7: SPECIAL COMMITTEES
   The Mayor shall appoint such special committees as he may deem necessary or
as may be directed by the Council. (1982 Code)
2-2-8: MEMBERSHIP IN COMMITTEES
   The Mayor shall appoint the members of all standing and special committees,
in the absence of specific direction by the Council, and shall designate the
Chairman of each committee.
   Every committee of the Council shall consist of four (4) City Council
members, including the Chairman, unless the City Council shall provide
otherwise. Committees may, in addition to the four (4) Council members, include
non-voting citizen advisory members. (Ord. 934, 2-21-2017)
2-2-9: RECORDS
   The City Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Council
proceedings. (1982 Code)
2-2-10: DISTURBING MEETINGS
   It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the City Council or of any
committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly manner at any such meeting. Any
person violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than one
dollar ($1.00) nor more than ten dollars ($10.00) for each offense. (1982 Code)
2-2-11: ORDER OF BUSINESS
   The usual order of business at meetings of the City Council shall be as
follows:
   A.   Meeting called to order by Mayor or alternate presiding officer;
   B.   Roll call;
   C.   Approval of minutes from preceding meeting if correct, and rectifying
mistakes and inserting omissions if any exist;
   D.   Finance report and approval of vouchers for payment;
   E.   Treasurer's report (second meeting of the month only);
   F.   Engineering professional services report;
   G.   Building permits;
   H.    General audience; (Ord. 794, 3-1-2005)
   I.   Committee reports: Properties, Streets, Water and Sewer; Purchasing/
Finance; Personnel; Public Relations and Economic Development; Public Safety,
Ordinance and Policy; and Liquor; (Ord. 794, 3-1-2005; amd. Ord. 934, 2-21-
2017)
   J.   City Attorney;
   K.   City employee's business;
   L.   Aldermen;
   M.   City Clerk;
   N.   Mayor;
   O.   Miscellaneous communications;
   P.   Adjournment. (Ord. 794, 3-1-2005)
2-2-12: RESCINDED ACTION
   No vote or action of the City Council shall be rescinded at any special
meeting unless there be present at such special meeting as many members of the
Council as were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as
provided by statute. (1982 Code)
2-2-13: RESOLUTIONS
   Any resolution submitted to the City Council shall be reduced to writing
before being voted upon, at the request of any two (2) members of the Council.
(1982 Code)
2-2-14: ADDRESSING MEETINGS
   No person other than the mayor or a member of the city council or other
municipal officer or employee shall address that body at any regular or special
meeting of the council except upon consent of a majority of the members
present. (1982 Code)
2-2-15: SUSPENSION OF RULES
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by statute, may be suspended
at any time by consent of a majority of the members present at any meeting.
(1982 Code)
2-2-16: ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER
   Except when in conflict with the foregoing provisions, "Robert's Rules Of
Order" shall govern the deliberations of the council. (1982 Code)
2-2-17: ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS
   A.   Members of the city council may attend city council meetings or
committee meetings of the city council without being physically present if the
following conditions are met:
      1.   In addition to holding meetings pursuant to the open meetings act, 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., the city council and council
committee meetings shall be subject to the following rules:
         a.   A quorum of the city council or committee in question shall be
physically present at the location of an open or closed meeting.
         b.   Provided a quorum is physically present, an alderman may be
allowed to attend the meeting by audio or video conferencing.
         c.   Any alderman who wishes to be considered present at a city
council meeting or city council committee meeting via audio or video conference
may make such a request to the city council by notifying the clerk three (3)
days prior to the meeting, unless advance notice is impractical, that member
cannot physically attend the meeting for one of the following reasons:
            (1)   Personal illness or disability;
            (2)   Employment purposes or city business; or
            (3)   A family or other emergency.
         d.   An affirmative vote by a majority of the city council or
committee members physically present may allow a member to attend a meeting as
provided herein.
         e.   The clerk shall record in the minutes of every meeting the
members physically present, absent and present by audio or video conference.
      2.   The nonpresent city alderman shall provide a telephone number where
he or she can be reached, and must be available when contacted prior to the
start of the meeting. The telephone of the nonpresent alderman must provide a
clear connection, and be in a location with relatively no background noise. If
other electronic means of communication are utilized, it must provide a clear
audio connection with relatively no background noise. City aldermen may not
participate by facsimile, electronic mail or other means without audio
connection.
      3.   A city alderman shall be considered present for purposes of voting
if the alderman is present by electronic means. If the city council is voting
on an ordinance or resolution authorizing, approving or providing for the
issuance of bonds (as that term is defined in the local government debt reform
act), or the city council or committee is conducting any hearing required by
law, then any alderman attending the meeting by audio or video conference shall
be considered absent for purposes of voting.
      4.   The mayor or temporary presiding officer (or chair) must announce,
prior to roll call, that a member is participating by speakerphone or other
electronic means.
      5.   The nonpresent alderman must answer the roll call and, at that time,
state that he or she is unable to attend in person and is willing and able to
participate by speakerphone or other electronic means.
      6.   The nonpresent alderman must be able to hear all comments made by
other city council members and from the audience if public comments are
expected.
      7.   All city aldermen and the public must be able to hear the comments
of the nonpresent member.
      8.   All votes shall be taken by roll call.
      9.   The meeting shall comply with the open meetings act. (Ord. 863, 11-
1-2011)
ARTICLE 3
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
   
2-3-1: Election
   
2-3-2: Qualifications
   
2-3-3: Oath And Bond
   
2-3-4: Overview Of Responsibilities
   
2-3-5: Statutory Duties
   
2-3-6: Customary Duties
   
2-3-7: Ex Officio Collector
   
2-3-8: Equipment
   
2-3-9: City Clerk Compensation
   
2-3-10: Absence
   
2-3-11: Vacancy
   
2-3-12: Utility Clerk
   
2-3-13: Utility Clerk Duties
   
2-3-14: Utility Clerk Compensation
2-3-1: ELECTION
   The City Clerk shall be elected as provided by statute and shall serve for a
four (4) year term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-2: QUALIFICATIONS
   The City Clerk must be a registered voter and have resided within the City
for one year preceding the election. The Clerk must not be in arrears in the
payment of any tax or other indebtedness due the City, and must not have been
convicted in any court located in the United States of any infamous crime,
bribery, perjury, or other felony. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-3: OATH AND BOND
   The Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of the office, take and
subscribe the oath or affirmation of office required by the Illinois
Constitution and shall enter into a bond with good and sufficient sureties to
be approved by the City Council. The cost of the bond shall be borne by the
City. The amount of the bond shall be the approximate amount of money from all
sources the Clerk will handle during the year, and if the Mayor or City Council
has set a higher amount, then the Clerk must obtain a bond in that higher
amount. The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance by the
Clerk of his or her duties of office, and to indemnify the City for any loss
due to any neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the Clerk. (Ord. 791,
12-7-2004)
2-3-4: OVERVIEW OF RESPONSIBILITIES
   Overall, the City Clerk serves as the "gatekeeper" of information, advice,
and consultation for City affairs. Being at the center of communications for
City Hall, the Office of City Clerk serves as the primary point of contact for
the public and the City staff regarding the actions of the City Council,
responds to citizens' inquiries made in person, by telephone, or by letter,
provides public records and information upon request, and maintains and
produces documents that enable citizens to participate in local government.
Effective as of April 1, 2017, the City Clerk shall staff City Hall two (2)
days per week, with a minimum of seven (7) hours per day. (Ord. 930, 11-1-2016,
eff. 4-18-2017)
2-3-5: STATUTORY DUTIES
   The City Clerk shall have the power to perform the duties required by
statute and by the ordinances of the City. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to:
   A.   Be the custodian of the City Seal and to affix its impression on
documents whenever required.
   B.   Attend all meetings of the City Council, ensure no business is
transacted without a quorum, present the Council agenda, record the minutes of
the Council's proceedings, and maintain a full and complete record of the
Council's proceedings in an official journal of meeting minutes. Commencing
January 1, 2004, the Clerk shall be responsible for recording all closed
sessions and/or closed meetings of the Council by means of audio or video
recording and maintaining said recordings as provided by Public Act 93-0523,
amending the Open Meetings Act.
   C.   Be the custodian of the book of ordinances in which shall be filed the
original of each ordinance after it has been adopted. This book is the official
record of the Council's legislative actions. The Clerk shall attach to this
book a proper index record that states the date of passage and cites the
journal and the page of the minutes where the record of passage for each
ordinance can be found.
   D.   Be the custodian of all papers and documents belonging to the City
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer or employee.
   E.   Maintain a current record showing all the officers and regular
employees of the City and such other records as may be required by the Council.
(Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
   F.   (Rep. by Ord. 916, 10-20-2015)
   G.   Keep a register of all special taxes and fees collected for licenses
and permits that are applied for, approved by City Council, and issued by the
Office of City Clerk.
   H.   Turn over all monies received on behalf of the City to the Office of
the Treasurer with a statement as to the source thereof, except for the utility
service fees which are collected and deposited by the Office of the Clerk into
a bank or depository as designated by Council.
   I.   Post and publish notices, ordinances and resolutions as required.
   J.   Sign and certify all contracts, licenses, permits, and other such
official documents and papers. Copies of all documents and papers duly filed in
the Office of the City Clerk along with transcripts from journals and other
records and files that are certified by the Clerk under the City Seal shall be
evidence in all courts in the same manner as if the originals were produced.
   K.   Perform any other such duties and functions as may be required by
statute or ordinance. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-6: CUSTOMARY DUTIES
   Customary duties of the City Clerk, while they are not regarded as legally
imposed responsibilities, are highly important to the successful administration
of City affairs. Such customary duties consist of:
   A.   Acting as a liaison officer and an important public relations figure
for the City. The City Clerk greets callers and visitors to City Hall, responds
to inquiries about City business, takes complaints about City ordinances and
policies and responds to them in an appropriate manner. The Clerk works with
and responds to the needs of citizens, City officials, the City staff, the City
Attorney and the City engineering firm on a daily basis.
   B.   Acting as a Secretary to the City as a whole by maintaining,
processing, and retrieving records and documents when required.
   C.   Serving as an Administrative Assistant to the City Council. The City
Clerk is to provide the Council with the necessary information and background
material on those matters requiring its attention. The adequacy and
comprehensiveness of this material will enable the members of the Council,
whose services are part time in varying degrees, to act more knowledgeably on
matters requiring their attention and formal disposition.
   D.   Maintaining an awareness of constantly changing laws, rules, and
regulations governing all aspects of City administrative and financial
operations, employment practices, bonding and special assessment changes,
budgeting requirements, election changes, and any other changes so City Council
can be alerted to problems and carry out the City's operations in a lawful
manner.
   E.   Processing payroll and all related tax reports.
   F.   Advertising for bids on equipment and infrastructure improvements as
authorized by City Council.
   G.   Maintaining a calendar of upcoming scheduled events and a follow up
activity file (often referred to as a tickler file). (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-7: EX OFFICIO COLLECTOR
   The City Clerk shall act as and perform all duties of Collector unless and
until a separate Collector is appointed. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-8: EQUIPMENT
   The City shall provide or make available to the City Clerk for his or her
use adequate computer hardware and software tools to perform such duties and
functions as described herein. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-9: CITY CLERK COMPENSATION
   The City Clerk shall receive the compensation that is established by City
Council. An increase or decrease in the annual salary of the City Clerk shall
not take effect during the term for which that Clerk was elected. The annual
salary shall be fixed at least six (6) months before the next election. The
annual salary of the City Clerk shall be the sum found in article 10 of this
chapter. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-10: ABSENCE
   Whenever the City Clerk is unable to attend a Council meeting and record the
minutes, the City Treasurer upon approval by the City Council shall serve as
City Clerk Pro Tempore. In the case of a simultaneous absence for both the
Clerk and the Treasurer at a Council meeting, the Mayor may appoint a Recording
Secretary to assume said duties upon approval by the Council. (Ord. 791, 12-7-
2004)
2-3-11: VACANCY
   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of the City Clerk by resignation,
disability, absence, failure to elect and qualify a successor, or for any other
reason then the Mayor shall appoint a City Clerk, subject to approval by the
City Council, to perform those duties until another is duly elected. (Ord. 791,
12-7-2004)
2-3-12: UTILITY CLERK
   The position of Utility Clerk shall be by appointment of the City Council
and shall be the same person who is acting as City Clerk unless the Council
votes affirmatively to award it to a separate individual. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-3-13: UTILITY CLERK DUTIES
   In support of the maintenance and monitoring of the City utility billing
system and associated public service and support, the duties of the Utility
Clerk shall consist of: (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
   A.   Preparing and sending out billings for water and sanitary sewer
services to all customers on a monthly basis.
   B.   Including the annual water report and any other instructions or
information as directed from time to time by the Council with the monthly
billing for water and sanitary sewer service. (Ord. 916, 10-20-2015)
   C.   Assisting water and sanitary sewer customers with information regarding
their service charges and the status of their accounts.
   D.   Maintaining utility payment records, posting receipts, and informing
the Council of any overdue and unpaid accounts. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
   E.   Preparing bank deposits for utility service fees received and
depositing said payments into the Water and Sewer Fund account not later than
five (5) business days of receipt. (Ord. 929, 11-1-2016)
   F.   Keeping a log of calls, questions and complaints from customers about
their water and sanitary sewer service for the City Maintenance Department to
address and respond to.
   G.   Maintaining an up to date address list of all customers with water and/
or sanitary sewer service.
   H.   Performing any other special duties as directed by Council. (Ord. 791,
12-7-2004)
   I.   Effective as of April 18, 2017, the Utility Clerk shall staff City Hall
two (2) days per week, with a minimum of seven (7) hours per day. Should the
Utility Clerk be the same person as the City Clerk, said two (2) days may not
be the same days as the City Clerk. (Ord. 929, 11-1-2016)
2-3-14: UTILITY CLERK COMPENSATION
   The Utility Clerk shall receive the compensation that is established by City
Council. The annual salary of the Utility Clerk shall be the sum found in
article 10 of this chapter. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
ARTICLE 4
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
   
2-4-1: Appointment
   
2-4-2: Qualifications
   
2-4-3: Oath And Bond
   
2-4-4: Overview Of Responsibilities
   
2-4-5: Duties
   
2-4-6: Additional Duties
   
2-4-7: Equipment
   
2-4-8: Compensation
   
2-4-9: Vacancy
2-4-1: APPOINTMENT
   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council as provided by statute. (Ord. 855, 8-17-2010)
2-4-2: QUALIFICATIONS
   The City Treasurer shall not be required to be a resident of the City of
Lanark. The Treasurer must not be in arrears in the payment of any tax or other
indebtedness due the City, and must not have been convicted in any court
located in the United States of any infamous crime, bribery, perjury, or other
felony. (Ord. 947, 1-16-2018)
2-4-3: OATH AND BOND
   The Treasurer shall, before entering upon the duties of the office, take and
subscribe the oath or affirmation of office required by the Illinois
Constitution and shall enter into a bond with good and sufficient sureties to
be approved by the City Council. The cost of the bond shall be borne by the
City. The amount of the bond shall be the approximate amount of money from all
sources the Treasurer will handle during the year, and if the Mayor or City
Council has set a higher amount, then the Treasurer must obtain a bond in that
higher amount. The bond shall provide that the Treasurer will discharge the
duties of the office imposed by the ordinances of the City and the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, and will pay over to the City and all parties entitled
thereto, any and all monies that come into the hands of such officer or by
virtue of any of the duties imposed upon the Office of Treasurer by the
ordinances of the City and the Illinois Compiled Statutes. The bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance by the Treasurer of his or her duties
of office, and to indemnify the City for any loss due to any neglect of duty or
wrongful act on the part of the Treasurer. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-4-4: OVERVIEW OF RESPONSIBILITIES
   Overall, the City Treasurer serves as the Money Manager and the Accounting
Officer for the City. In this role, the Treasurer maintains custody of all City
funds and possesses ultimate responsibility for the deposit, investment and
disbursement of these monies. The Treasurer must administer the City's
resources to ensure the availability of sufficient liquid assets to pay
obligations when they become due. In addition, the Treasurer plays a
significant role in City borrowing. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-4-5: DUTIES
   The Treasurer shall have the power to perform the duties required by statute
and by the ordinances of the City. It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to:
   A.   Receive all monies due or belonging to the City, with the exception of
the utility service fees which are collected and deposited by the Office of the
City Clerk, and to deposit all monies in a bank or depository as designated by
the City Council. The City Treasurer shall keep the City money separate and
distinct from his or her own, and shall not intermingle his or her own money
with it or make private or personal use of City funds. Any such violation shall
subject the City Treasurer to immediate removal from office by the Mayor and
the Council, who may then declare the Office of Treasurer vacant.
   B.   Keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation and the debits
and credits for each fund or appropriation.
   C.   Give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt, specifying
the date of payment and upon which account paid. The Treasurer shall file
copies of these receipts with the City Clerk.
   D.   Pay all orders, warrants and other disbursement checks as authorized by
the Mayor or the Council.
   E.   Keep a set of records showing in a clear and simple manner all monies
received, from whom, on what account or fund they were received, and all monies
paid out, to whom, on what account or fund paid, for what purpose, and to keep
such records and accounts open to examination for the purchasing/finance
committee and any other member of the council.
   F.   Keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed with or paid by
the treasurer, and all vouchers as is required by statute. The register for
warrants shall describe each warrant, showing its number, date, and amount, the
fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom paid, and when paid. All
paid warrants shall be marked "paid".
   G.   Complete all journals, ledgers and records and make them available
within a reasonable time following the end of the fiscal year for the auditor
to complete a fiscal audit as required by statute.
   H.   Record and deposit taxes levied annually by the council from the county
treasurer of the county of Carroll in which the city is located.
   I.   File properly signed certificates for taxes to be levied annually with
the county treasurer.
   J.   Attend any meetings of the city council and appropriate committee
meetings as may be required from time to time by the mayor or the council.
   K.   Supervise the arrangements for bond sales and maintain and provide
reports on the debt of the city.
   L.   Invest surplus money in accordance with applicable statutes and
consistent with prudent judgment and the approval of the council to provide
maximum return. The city treasurer may enter into agreements of any definite or
indefinite term regarding the deposit, redeposit, investment, reinvestment or
withdrawal of city funds.
   M.    Prepare and issue a report on the balance of money in the treasury at
the end of the preceding month for review by the council at the second council
meeting of every month. Such report shall show the monies received, on what
account they have been received, all monies paid out, and on what account they
have been paid.
   N.   Prepare an annual statement of receipts and disbursements within six
(6) months after the end of each fiscal year or as soon thereafter when the
annual audit is complete and available. This statement is known as the annual
treasurer's report and is required by statute. The city treasurer shall file
the annual report with the city clerk and the county treasurer. The city clerk
shall publish the annual report in a newspaper that is published within the
city. If no newspaper is published within the city, then the annual report
shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation within the city.
   O.   Participate in planning for the next budget by compiling past
expenditure figures and aid in making determination of new budget figures.
   P.   Deliver to the successor of the office of treasurer at the expiration
of the term of office, all books, papers, records, money and things pertaining
thereto. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-4-6: ADDITIONAL DUTIES
   In addition to the duties herein provided the treasurer shall perform such
other duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance. (Ord.
791, 12-7-2004)
2-4-7: EQUIPMENT
   The city shall provide to the treasurer for his or her use adequate computer
hardware and software tools to perform the duties and functions as described
herein. Such equipment shall support the treasurer in maintaining a
computerized accounting system to keep accounts of all money transactions,
receipts, and disbursements; and such other accounts as may be required by
statute or ordinance. (Ord. 791, 12-7-2004)
2-4-8: COMPENSATION
   The city treasurer shall receive the compensation that is established by the
city council. The annual salary of the city treasurer shall be the sum found in
article 10 of this chapter. A treasurer who completes the necessary training
and receives certification as an Illinois municipal treasurer is entitled to
receive additional compensation in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the
annual salary, up to a maximum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 857,
12-7-2010)
2-4-9: VACANCY
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the treasurer by resignation,
disability, absence, or for any other reason, then a new treasurer will be
appointed in accordance with section 2-4-1 of this article. (Ord. 791, 12-7-
2004; amd. Ord. 855, 8-17-2010)
ARTICLE 5
HEALTH OFFICER
   (Rep. by Ord. 819, 10-3-2006)
ARTICLE 6
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
   
2-6-1: Creation of Office, Appointment
   
2-6-2: Suits and Actions
   
2-6-3: Judgments
   
2-6-4: Advice
   
2-6-5: Special Assessments
   
2-6-6: Ordinances and Documents
   
2-6-7: Powers and Duties
2-6-1: CREATION OF OFFICE, APPOINTMENT
   There is hereby created the office of City Attorney, an executive office of
the City. The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council.
2-6-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS
   The Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law
or equity to which the City may be a party, or in which it may be interested,
or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the City on behalf of
the City, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the City.
2-6-3: JUDGMENTS
   It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the full enforcement of all
judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the City, and of all
similar interlocutory orders.
2-6-4: ADVICE
   The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the City, and shall render advice
on all legal questions affecting the City, whenever requested to do so by any
City official. Upon request by the Mayor or by the Council, he shall reduce any
such opinion to writing.
2-6-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   It shall be the duty of the Attorney to see to the completion of all special
assessments proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
2-6-6: ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS
   It shall be the duty of the Attorney to draft or supervise the phraseology
of any contract, lease or other documents or instruments, to which the City may
be a party; and upon request of the Council, to draft ordinances covering any
subjects within the power of the City.
2-6-7: POWERS AND DUTIES
   It shall be the duty of the Attorney to attend all meetings of the City
Council, and at all such meetings, on all questions, resolutions, or motions
before the said Council, affecting the legal rights, or liabilities, of said
City, or any of its departments, or officers, he shall be entitled to all the
privileges of an Alderman, except the privilege of voting.
ARTICLE 7
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
   
2-7-1: Department Created
   
2-7-2: City Maintenance Manager
   
2-7-3: Qualifications For Manager
   
2-7-4: Responsibilities Of Manager
   
2-7-5: Vacancy
2-7-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED
   There is hereby created by the city council a department to be known as the
department of public works, whose function shall be to manage, maintain, and
operate the city water and sewer facilities and all other public property owned
by the city and not specifically assigned to some other officer or board. This
department shall consist of the city maintenance manager and other such
employees as may be provided by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 796, 4-5-
2005)
2-7-2: CITY MAINTENANCE MANAGER
   There is hereby created the office of city maintenance manager who shall be
appointed and removed at the discretion of the mayor along with the advice and
consent of the city council. The city maintenance manager shall have control
and supervision over all employees assigned to the department of public works
subject to the control of the mayor and the city council. (Ord. 796, 4-5-2005)
2-7-3: QUALIFICATIONS FOR MANAGER
   The city maintenance manager must possess excellent public interface skills,
good written and verbal communication abilities, and up to date computer
skills. Required is the possession of a valid driver's license with a
commercial driver's license (CDL) endorsement. A well rounded technical
knowledge of rural municipal water systems is required along with the
possession of a current class C water operator's license or the ability to
obtain one within two (2) years. Experience or familiarity with lagoon
wastewater treatment plant operations/collection systems along with the
possession of a class IV wastewater treatment operator's certificate or the
ability to obtain one within two (2) years is also a requirement. Good overall
mechanical, electrical, plumbing and other contractor skills are essential for
performing the duties set forth for the public works department. (Ord. 796, 4-
5-2005)
2-7-4: RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGER
   The city maintenance manager shall have charge of and supervision over all
maintenance and service operations within the public works department to ensure
all maintenance and service work is performed in an efficient manner while
protecting the health, safety and welfare of the community. Continual ongoing
implementation of any minor public works department activities identified in
the city's current capital improvement plan also falls within the
responsibility of the city maintenance manager. (Ord. 796, 4-5-2005)
2-7-5: VACANCY
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of city maintenance manager by
resignation, disability, absence, or for any other reason then the mayor shall
serve as ex officio city maintenance manager until such office is filled by
appointment. (Ord. 796, 4-5-2005)
ARTICLE 8
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
   
2-8-1: Definitions
   
2-8-2: Department Created
   
2-8-3: Appointments
   
2-8-4: Chain Of Command; Authority Of Mayor
   
2-8-5: Rank
   
2-8-6: Oath
   
2-8-7: Chief Of Police Tenure
   
2-8-8: Chief Of Police; Interest And Attention To Duty
   
2-8-9: Chief Of Police Duties
   
2-8-10: Corporal Or Sergeant
   
2-8-11:    Hierarchy Of Command
   
2-8-12: Patrol Officer
   
2-8-13: Police Officer's Responsibility
   
2-8-14: Powers And Duties Of Police Officers
   
2-8-15: Stolen Or Abandoned Property
   
2-8-16: Rules And Regulations
   
2-8-17: Serving Process
   
2-8-18: Witness Fees
   
2-8-19: Fines
   
2-8-20: Subpoenas
   
2-8-21: Police Uniforms
   
2-8-22: Police Equipment
   
2-8-23: Hiring Standards
   
2-8-24: Residency Requirement
   
2-8-25: Probation
   
2-8-26: Promotion
   
2-8-27: Promotion Probationary Period
   
2-8-28: Auxiliary Police Officers
   
2-8-29: Compensation Of Police Officers
   
2-8-30: Vacation
   
2-8-31: Resignation
   
2-8-32: Violations And Discipline
   
2-8-33: Part Time Police Officers
2-8-1: DEFINITIONS
CITY: The city of Lanark in the county of Carroll in the state of Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: In the context of this article, the city council shall mean the
governing body of the city of Lanark as a whole.
DEPARTMENT: In the context of this article, the word department shall mean the
Lanark police department.
GENDER: Use of the pronouns he, his or him are gender neutral in the context of
this article and are used to signify either male or female officers. (Ord. 826,
3-6-2007)
2-8-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED
   There is hereby created a police department in and for the city of Lanark
which shall consist of a chief of police and other such subordinate members in
such numbers, and at such compensation, as may be provided by city council. All
such subordinate members shall hold the rank of sergeant, corporal or patrol
officer. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-3: APPOINTMENTS
   The chief of police and all candidates qualified to serve as a sergeant,
corporal or patrol officer shall be appointed by the city council. (Ord. 826,
3-6-2007)
2-8-4: CHAIN OF COMMAND; AUTHORITY OF MAYOR
   The mayor shall be the commander in chief of the police department. Any
wilful disobedience or neglect to perform any lawful command or order of the
mayor, by the chief of police or any other member of the department, shall
constitute insubordination. The power and authority of the police department
shall be subordinate to the power and authority of the citizens of the city,
exercised through their elected officials. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-5: RANK
   A.   Within the police department, the organization, according to rank,
shall be:
      1.   Chief of police.
      2.   Sergeant.
      3.   Corporal.
      4.   Patrol officer.
   B.   All part time police officers shall be appointed to and restricted to
the rank of patrol officer only, so as to never under any circumstance place a
part time police officer in the position of outranking a full time police
officer. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-6: OATH
   Each person appointed to a police officer position in the department,
regardless of rank, before entering upon his duties shall take and subscribe to
the required oath or affirmation of office. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-7: CHIEF OF POLICE TENURE
   The chief of police shall serve for such term or time as may be provided by
law, and may be removed in the manner provided for the removal of police
officers. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-8: CHIEF OF POLICE; INTEREST AND ATTENTION TO DUTY
   The chief of police shall not own or have any interest, of any nature, in
any tavern or business selling alcoholic liquor. The chief of police shall
devote his or her whole time to the discharge of the duties of his or her
office and shall not follow or engage in any other regular calling, occupation,
or duties of a similar nature that would be considered a conflict of interest,
except those as designated or approved by the mayor. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-9: CHIEF OF POLICE DUTIES
   The chief of police, in addition to all other duties provided by law, shall:
   A.   Enforce the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state of
Illinois and give any necessary orders among the members of the police
department and take any needed actions to ensure such enforcement.
   B.   Promptly report to the mayor and the police commission any violations
of such ordinances and statutes by any members of the police department.
   C.   Receive and obey all lawful orders from the mayor or the city council.
   D.   Provide for and assign duties to all other members of the department,
consistent with any lawful orders directed by the mayor or the city council.
   E.   Attend city council meetings, serve or delegate service of all written
notifications as ordered by the mayor and perform all other duties as may be
prescribed by the city council.
   F.   Be the superior officer within and direct the work of the police
department. Be obeyed and accorded respect by all members and be responsible
for the discipline of any members of the department.
   G.   Be responsible and account for all property and equipment provided for
the police department. Be responsible and account for all goods or other
property received or reclaimed under department authority, and make final
disposition thereof as the mayor may lawfully direct.
   H.   Upon request, make available to the mayor or city council any files,
official records or documents of the police department or items relating to
department business, except where the release of such documents is prohibited
by law, would jeopardize the safety or privacy of the department, an employee
or member of the department or members of the public. The chief of police may
be requested by the mayor or city council to provide general information about
the restricted information without releasing specific information.
   I.   Submit a report monthly, in writing, to the city council on the monthly
activities of the department. Such report shall set forth the number of
citations issued, number of arrests made, number of calls responded to and so
forth.
   J.   Make or prescribe rules and regulations such as the conduct of members,
uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried, hours of service, vacations, and
other similar matters necessary or desirable for the better efficiency of the
department as he or she shall deem advisable; such rules when approved by
council, shall be binding on such members.
   K.   Receive and give proper attention to complaints of all persons referred
to him.
   L.   Have full power and authority to reprimand any member of the
department.
   M.   Have custody and control of all books, records, machines, tools,
apparatus, or equipment of every kind necessary for the use of the department.
   N.   Have the authority to designate an officer as acting chief if the chief
of police will be unavailable due to vacation, illness or other reason. If the
chief of police is not able to designate an acting chief for some reason then
the mayor with the approval of the city council may appoint an officer as
interim acting chief. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-10: CORPORAL OR SERGEANT
   A corporal or sergeant shall be in command of his shift and shall, when on
duty, have charge of and responsibility for the condition and good order of the
station and all equipment thereof and for the discipline of his subordinates.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-11: HIERARCHY OF COMMAND
   At all times, and in any situation, the highest ranking member of the police
department present shall be in command. In case of members of equal rank, the
member with seniority in length of service in that rank shall be in command.
Each member shall be the superior officer of all other members of lesser rank
or of equal rank and less seniority. Each member shall, at all times, obey all
lawful orders of a superior officer. A superior officer cannot delegate command
to a subordinate officer except under extraordinary circumstances. (Ord. 826,
3-6-2007)
2-8-12: PATROL OFFICER
   A.   Each patrol officer, in carrying out the functions of the police
department, namely, the preservation of the public peace, the protection of
life and property, the prevention of crime, the arrest of violators of the law,
the proper enforcement of all the laws and ordinances of which the department
takes cognizance, shall be consistently direct in their efforts to accomplish
that end intelligently and efficiently, and shall hold themselves in readiness
at all times to answer the calls and obey the orders of their superiors, and
shall be accountable to their superior officers for the general conditions of
the city during the hours assigned to them.
   B.   Patrol officers, unless otherwise ordered, shall wear the regulation
uniforms in keeping with the specifications, including materials, designated
and adopted by the department and approved by the chief of police.
   C.   Patrol officers assigned to squad or motorcycle duty shall at the
completion of their tours of duty check the vehicle used and see that the same
is left in a clean condition and refueled and ready for the incoming shift.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-13: POLICE OFFICER'S RESPONSIBILITY
   Members of the department will have regular hours assigned to them for
active duty each day and when not so employed, they shall be considered off
duty. They shall, however, be held to be subject to duty at all times, and
although practically relieved from the routine performance of duty, are at all
times subject to orders from proper authorities and to calls from superiors.
The fact that they are off duty shall not relieve them from the responsibility
of taking proper police action in any matter coming to their attention at any
time within their jurisdiction. Officers are encouraged to act as good
witnesses and report what they have seen, unless circumstances require
immediate police intervention. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-14: POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS
   A.   Traffic Powers And Duties:
      1.   Each member of the department shall study and know the traffic laws
of the state of Illinois and the traffic ordinances of the city. The officer
shall use his best efforts and discretion in their enforcement.
      2.   The department shall enforce the traffic code of the city and the
state of Illinois motor vehicle laws and shall cooperate with city officials in
the administration and improvement of traffic control.
   B.   Legal Powers And Duties:
      1.   Members of the department shall study and know the criminal statutes
of the state of Illinois and the ordinances of the city. Members of the
department shall have the power to arrest persons without a warrant, within the
city, for any criminal offense committed or attempted in the presence of the
arresting officer (commonly referred to as an "on view" arrest), or for a
criminal offense which has been committed when there is "reasonable belief"
that the person arrested has committed the offense. Reasonable belief is
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/2-19. For the purposes of this
article, "reasonable belief" shall include information received from any
reputable citizen identifying the person to be arrested as the person having
committed the criminal offense.
      2.   Department members may serve and execute warrants for violations of
ordinances and criminal warrants or processes within the corporate limits of
the city. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-15: STOLEN OR ABANDONED PROPERTY
   A.   It shall be the duty of all officers, upon finding or recovering any
stolen or abandoned property, to bring such property to the police station and
place such property into the care of the chief of police or his designee.
   B.   It shall be the duty of all officers, upon finding or recovering an
abandoned or stolen vehicle to have the vehicle towed to a secure storage
facility. The vehicle shall be properly inventoried as prescribed by law,
unless such inventory will contaminate or destroy evidence, in which case the
vehicle inventory will be completed when the vehicle is processed and prior to
it being released by or to the originating agency or owner.
   C.   The chief of police shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or
stolen property recovered in the city. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-16: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The chief of the police department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he shall deem advisable; such rules, when approved by the city
council, shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations may
cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or
carried, hours of service, vacations, and all other similar matters necessary
or desirable for the better efficiency of the department. Each member of the
police department shall study and know all department rules and regulations,
especially those relating to his particular assignment. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-17: SERVING PROCESS
   No member of the department, other than the chief of police, shall serve any
process except on command of the chief of police or his designee. (Ord. 826, 3-
6-2007)
2-8-18: WITNESS FEES
   Every member of the department shall appear as a witness whenever it is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or any state or
federal law. No member shall retain any witness fee for service as a witness in
any action or suit to which the city is a party; any fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the chief of police or his designee, who shall
deposit the same with the city treasurer. Department members attending court
shall be paid a minimum of three (3) hours' pay at their regular rate of pay.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-19: FINES
   All fines assessed by the police department and collected pursuant to the
terms of the foregoing rules shall be forthwith turned over to the city
treasurer to become and be used as part and portion of a fund to be designated.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-20: SUBPOENAS
   Members of the police department when subpoenaed or requested to appear for
the defense in the prosecution of a criminal case, shall immediately report to
their commanding officer whose duty it shall be to notify the state's attorney.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-21: POLICE UNIFORMS
   Department employees shall be granted an annual uniform allowance as
approved by city council toward the purchase of police uniform clothing and
accessories. All uniform clothing shall be ordered by and meet the approval of
the chief of police or his designee. Uniforms shall be kept in a clean and
serviceable condition.
   A.   For each new full time or part time police employee who begins
employment with the city, the chief of police shall order and issue one pair of
search gloves, one winter jacket, two (2) nameplates and two (2) sets of police
uniform clothing. One set of police uniform clothing consists of a long sleeved
shirt or blouse (winter), a short sleeved shirt or blouse (summer) and a pair
of long trousers or slacks.
   B.   All full time police employees shall be allowed an annual amount of up
to two hundred seventy five dollars ($275.00) during each fiscal year for
applying toward the purchase of police uniform clothing and accessories.
   C.   All part time police employees shall be allowed an annual amount of up
to one hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00) during each fiscal year for
applying toward the purchase of police uniform clothing and accessories.
   D.   The police uniform clothing and accessory allowance shall be made
available during each fiscal year which annual period begins on April 1 and
ends the following year on March 30.
   E.   The city treasurer shall maintain accurate police uniform clothing and
accessory purchase records for each individual police employee. Any purchases
exceeding the annual allowance limit within a fiscal year period must be paid
for by the affected police employee at the time of the receipt of the
merchandise.
   F.   Items which may be purchased using the police uniform clothing and
accessory allowance are:
      1.   Belts;
      2.   Neckties;
      3.   Turtleneck shirts (monogrammed);
      4.   Shirts or blouses;
      5.   Trousers or slacks;
      6.   Shoes;
      7.   Caps;
      8.   Jackets;
      9.   Raincoats;
      10.   Sweaters;
      11.   Search gloves. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-22: POLICE EQUIPMENT
   A.   The following equipment, if purchased by the city and issued by the
department to police employees, shall remain the property of the city. All such
city purchased and supplied equipment items listed below are to be turned in
upon separation from active police service with the city:
      1.   Duty belt;
      2.   Duty holster;
      3.   Magazine holder;
      4.   Handcuffs;
      5.   Impact weapon;
      6.   OC spray;
      7.   Body armor;
      8.   Badge and identification card.
   B.   The city reserves the right to issue a duty weapon and ammunition. If
the city chooses to exercise this right, all officers shall be required to
carry the weapon issued by the city and shall be required to return the weapon
to the chief of police or his designee upon separation from the department.
   C.   Items such as shotguns, patrol rifles, rechargeable flashlights, laptop
computers, cell phones and the like are owned by the city and provided for the
use of on duty members of the department. These items are not to be removed
from the police department's use without the approval of the chief of police or
his designee.
   D.   Employees of the department shall be responsible for the good care of
department property whether fixed or movable, or assigned to their personal
keeping for use, and shall promptly report to their commanding officer the loss
or damage to, or unserviceable condition of such property. Roughness or
carelessness in the handling of such property will not be tolerated and will be
made the subject of charges of superior officers who will be responsible for
the strict enforcement of this rule. The investigation may be initiated as an
"informal inquiry" as defined in 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 725/2(b). Any
member found guilty of wilful or negligent damage to property, shall be
required to pay all costs of repairs or replacement. Repeated occurrences of
wilful or negligent damage shall be cause for a "formal investigation" as
defined in 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 725/2(c).
   E.   All members of the department shall immediately report to the chief of
police or his designee, the loss or damage of any city equipment that has been
furnished to the individual. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-23: HIRING STANDARDS
   No person shall be hired as a part time or full time police officer in the
city unless they meet all of the following criteria:
   A.   Said person shall be at least twenty one (21) years of age, not have
been dishonorably discharged from the armed services or had a history of
alcohol or drug dependency, and must be of good character and moral turpitude.
   B.   Said person shall meet statutory requirements regarding arrests/
convictions.
   C.   Said person shall be a citizen of the United States or an alien
admitted for permanent residency or authorized to work in the United States
prior to making application to the police department of the city.
   D.   Said person shall not be required to meet any residency requirements
prior to making application to the police department of the city.
   E.   Said person shall be a high school graduate or have a certificate of
equivalency or other documentation similar in nature to a high school diploma.
   F.   Said person shall possess a valid driver's license at the time of
application to the police department of the city.
   G.   Said person shall successfully complete the application process which
may consist of any combination of the following items: a written interview and/
or an oral interview, a screening or background check, drug testing and/or
polygraph testing, and any other type of checks or reviews that the police
committee of the city council and the city council in general feel is
appropriate. The applicant shall execute any written waivers needed to complete
said testing and/or investigations. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-24: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT
   A.   There are no residency requirements.
   B.   Residency requirements in effect at the time an individual enters
employment with the city as a police officer cannot be made more restrictive
for that individual during his period of service, or made a condition for
promotion. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-25: PROBATION
   A.   Every untrained and noncertified person appointed as a new member of
the department shall be on probation for a period of six (6) months from
successful completion of the field training officers (FTO) program. Before the
expiration of such period, the chief of police shall make a written
recommendation to the city council, stating reasons for the continuation or
discharge of the probationary member. During such period, the city council may,
in its sole discretion, without hearing, discharge such appointee from
employment by the department. Within such probationary period, every new member
must pass the approved training course provided for in the Illinois police
training act 1 , and within such period must have been certified by the
Illinois law enforcement training and standards board as having successfully
completed such approved training course. In the event he or she has been so
certified as having passed such approved training course, and successfully
completed the FTO program, in the absence of discharge within such probationary
period, the appointee, upon the expiration of the period of probation, shall
become a full member of the police department.
   B.   Every trained and fully certified person appointed as a new member of
the police department shall be on probation for a period of three (3) months.
Continuance in service shall be dependent upon the conduct of the appointee and
his fitness for the performance of the duties to which he is assigned as
indicated by the quality of his work and the reports and recommendations of his
superior officers. If, during the probation period, the appointee proves unfit,
he will be dismissed from the service by the chief of police with the approval
of the city council and shall not be entitled to appeal from such dismissal.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
2-8-26: PROMOTION:
   A.   Appointments to a higher rank, except for the chief of police, shall be
made from the next lower rank.
   B.   Any candidate eligible for promotion to the rank of corporal must have
served in the department for a minimum of one year immediately prior.
   C.   Any candidate eligible for promotion to the rank of sergeant must have
served a minimum of one year as corporal immediately prior.
   D.   Promotions within the police department shall be made on the basis of
ascertained merit and seniority in service.
   E.   Promotional eligibility of any member of the police department shall be
established and recommended to the city council by the chief of police. (Ord.
826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-27: PROMOTION PROBATIONARY PERIOD
   After promotion to a position as listed in section
2-8-5, "Rank", of this article, the first six (6) months of service in the
position to which an employee is promoted shall be considered a period of
probation. In the event the employee does not satisfactorily complete his
probationary period, he shall revert to the lower position, with the rate of
pay to which he would have been entitled had he continued to serve in such
lower position without promotion. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-28: AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS
   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular police
department of the city. Auxiliary police officers shall not supplement members
of the regular police department of the city in the performance of their
assigned and normal duties, except as otherwise provided in this article.
Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the following
duties in the city: a) to aid or direct traffic within the city, b) to aid in
control of natural or manmade disasters, and c) to aid in case of civil
disorder as directed by the chief of police. When it is impractical for members
of the regular police department to perform those normal and regular police
duties, however, the chief of police of the regular department may assign
auxiliary police officers to perform those normal and regular police duties.
Identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers shall be different and
distinct from those used by members of the regular department. Auxiliary police
officers shall at all times during the performance of their duties be subject
to the direction and control of the chief of police of the city. Auxiliary
police officers shall not carry firearms. Auxiliary police officers, when on
duty, shall not be conservators of the peace. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-29: COMPENSATION OF POLICE OFFICERS
   A.   Each full time employee shall be compensated in a salary, in such
annual amount as determined and approved by city council.
   B.   Each full time employee is expected to work eighty (80) hours in a
fourteen (14) day pay period. The city council and/or chief of police may at
their discretion change the current ten (10) hours per day work schedule to
twelve (12) hours per day, in which case the employee is expected to work
eighty four (84) hours in a fourteen (14) day pay period.
   C.   In accordance with the fair labor standards act, full time employees
exceeding the number of hours worked in subsection B of this section shall be
entitled to compensation at a rate of one and one-half (1 1/2) times their
hourly rate of pay. The hourly rate of pay shall be determined by dividing the
annual salary by two thousand eighty (2,080) hours.
   D.   Each part time police officer shall be compensated at an hourly rate of
pay, as determined and approved by city council.
   E.   Each part time employee shall be compensated at twice his regular
hourly rate of pay, or double time, for working on a legal holiday. The seven
(7) legal holidays that qualify for the double time hourly pay rate are: New
Year's Day, Easter, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day
and Christmas Day.
   F.   The practice commonly referred to as "comp time" is hereby prohibited.
The practice of allowing an officer to take time off in a subsequent pay period
after putting in extra hours in an initial pay period is hereby prohibited and
will not be allowed under any circumstances by the city. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-30: VACATION
   All members of the police department shall be entitled to vacation
consistent with city policy. The city reserves the right to amend city policy
from time to time. The chief of police or his designee shall have the right to
deny the use of vacation during special, preplanned events or to cancel any
annual vacation or days off in the event of an emergency. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-31: RESIGNATION
   A.   The employment relationship with the city is "at will". An employee of
the police department has the right to resign and thereby terminate their
employment relationship with the city at any time with or without reason or
notice. The city also reserves the same right for terminating a police
employee.
   B.   All police equipment and property belonging to the city must be
returned to the chief of police or his designee upon termination of employment.
The city reserves the right to withhold final payment to the officer until all
items are returned. In the event the officer fails to return the items, the
city has the right to deduct the value of the items from the officer's final
payment. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-32: VIOLATIONS AND DISCIPLINE
   The chief of police has the authority to initiate an investigation into any
complaints of violations of this article or the general orders of the
department committed by an employee or member of the department. Investigations
shall be conducted in accordance with 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 725
commonly referred to as the uniform peace officers' disciplinary act.
   Progressive discipline shall be used at all times. The chief of police has
the authority to verbally warn an officer of an offense, provide the officer
with a written warning and/or suspend the officer for up to three (3)
consecutive days without the approval of the city council.
   Where appropriate, the city council shall be apprised of all investigations
and the results of the investigation. In cases where the chief of police is
requesting discipline in excess of a three (3) day suspension, up to and
including termination, the officer has the right to a hearing before the city
council. The hearing shall be in conformance with the provisions of the uniform
peace officers' disciplinary act and the city council shall have discretionary
powers to discipline in the form of verbal or written warnings, suspension from
duty, reduction in rank and/or dismissal from duty. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-8-33: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS
   A.   Employment: The city of Lanark may employ part time police officers
from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Lanark police department, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the mayor. Part time police officers serve at the discretion of
the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment,
and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part time police
officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders issued by
the police department. (Ord. 910, 10-6-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
ARTICLE 9
CONDUCT OF MEMBERS OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
   
2-9-1: Definitions
   
2-9-2: Conduct Of Members
   
2-9-3: Absence From Duty
   
2-9-4: Leaving The City
   
2-9-5: Attention To Duty
   
2-9-6: Department Stationery And Equipment
   
2-9-7: False Reports
   
2-9-8: Address And Telephone
   
2-9-9: Insubordination
   
2-9-10: Courtesy
   
2-9-11: Name And Badge Number
   
2-9-12: Games Of Chance
   
2-9-13: Drinking
   
2-9-14: Aiding Persons
   
2-9-15: Altercations
   
2-9-16: Maltreatment Of Persons
   
2-9-17: Debts
   
2-9-18: Confidential Information
   
2-9-19: Acceptance Of Presents
   
2-9-20: Bribes
   
2-9-21: Other Laws
   
2-9-22: Violations And Discipline
2-9-1: DEFINITIONS
CITY: The city of Lanark in the county of Carroll in the state of Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: In the context of this article, the city council shall mean the
governing body of the city of Lanark as a whole.
DEPARTMENT: In the context of this article, the word department shall mean the
Lanark police department.
GENDER: Use of the pronouns he, his or him are gender neutral in the context of
this article and are used to signify either male or female officers. (Ord. 826,
3-6-2007)
2-9-2: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS
   No member of the police department shall conduct himself in a manner as to
bring discredit upon the department. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-3: ABSENCE FROM DUTY
   In the event of sickness, notice shall be given to the commanding officer no
less than two (2) hours before the start of the assigned shift. This is to
allow the commanding officer time to make the necessary changes to fill the
vacancy of the person reporting sick. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-4: LEAVING THE CITY
   No member of the police department doing patrol duty shall go beyond the
limits of the city unless in the performance of actual police duty, or upon
direct orders from the superior officer. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-5: ATTENTION TO DUTY
   All members of the department, regardless of rank, shall at all times be
attentive to their duties. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-6: DEPARTMENT STATIONERY AND EQUIPMENT
   Department stationery shall not be used for personal correspondence, nor
shall any department property be used for private purposes without the approval
of the chief of police or his designee. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-7: FALSE REPORTS
   No member of the department shall knowingly make a misstatement or make a
false report. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-8: ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE
   Members of the department shall notify the chief of police of any change in
their residence address or telephone number. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-9: INSUBORDINATION
   Members and employees of the department shall treat their superior officer
with respect and their demeanor toward other associates shall be courteous and
considerate. It is their duty to inform superior officers of any neglect or
disobedience of orders that come to their knowledge. Members and employees
shall not speak critically or derogatorily to any member of the department, or
to any person outside the department regarding the orders or instructions
issued by a superior officer. In a case where the member or employee believes
that such orders or instructions are unjust, it is the right of the member or
employee to appeal the order to a higher authority only after the order is
obeyed and carried out. No member or employee shall be required to carry out an
order he knows to be unlawful. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-10: COURTESY
   Courtesy and civility towards the public are demanded from all members and
employees of the department. Any conduct to the contrary will not be tolerated.
The conduct of members and employees shall be appropriate to the situation.
Members and employees shall at all times be attentive and serious in the
discharge of their duties, controlling their tempers and exercising the utmost
patience and discretion. They should refrain from using profane or insolent
language. When required, they may act with sufficient force to perform their
duties as prescribed by law. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-11: NAME AND BADGE NUMBER
   When in uniform, a member or employee of the department shall keep his badge
in sight and give his name and badge number in a respectful manner when
requested. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-12: GAMES OF CHANCE
   Police officers shall not engage in any games of chance or illegal
activities while on duty. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-13: DRINKING
   Members of the police department shall not drink any intoxicating liquor
while either on duty or in uniform. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-14: AIDING PERSONS
   No member of the department shall aid any person arrested in obtaining an
attorney or by posting bond for the individual. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-15: ALTERCATIONS
   Members of the department should refrain from physical altercations except
in the line of duty or to come to the aid of another, as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-16: MALTREATMENT OF PERSONS
   Members of the department shall provide for the welfare of all persons and
arrestees as prescribed by law. Members of the department shall arrange for
medical treatment, physical assistance or transportation of both prisoners and
citizens as may be needed from time to time. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-17: DEBTS
   Members of the department shall pay when due all just bills and obligations
owed by such member, and such member shall not incur or become liable for
obligations which he, in the reasonable course of events, could not possibly
meet at their maturity. No member of the department shall sell or assign any
wages to be received from the police department. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-18: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   No member of the department shall give out or release any information about
the affairs, business or operation of the department without the consent of the
chief of police or his designee.
   Members of the department shall not deliver addresses in meetings concerning
the work of the police department, nor shall they make statements for
publication concerning plans, policies or affairs of the police department
unless authorized to do so by the chief of police or his designee. (Ord. 826,
3-6-2007)
2-9-19: ACCEPTANCE OF PRESENTS
   No member of the department shall accept any fee (except bond money for the
arrestee), gift or reward of any kind, from persons arrested or from anyone
acting on the arrestee's behalf, while the arrestee is in custody, or after his
release or discharge.
   Members of the department shall not accept presents or gifts from
individuals, groups, clubs, associations, societies, citizens, lodges, or
political parties for activities relating to the performance of their duties,
without the consent of the chief of police or his designee.
   Members of the department shall not solicit contributions for a fund for the
purposes of presenting other members of the department with a gift, unless
authorized by the chief of police or his designee. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-20: BRIBES
   No member of the department shall accept bribes of money, gifts or other
articles of apparent or actual cash value without notifying the chief of
police, who shall contact the Carroll County state's attorney to initiate
criminal proceeding against the offender. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-21: OTHER LAWS
   In addition to the rules and regulations in this article as established by
the city council, the laws of the state of Illinois, ordinances of the city,
and federal laws pertaining to and affecting police officers shall be the
governing factors in the conduct of all members of the police department, who
shall at all times be subject to the same.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police and the mayor to enforce
the foregoing rules and regulations.
   B.   A copy of the foregoing rules and regulations shall be delivered as
promptly as possible by the chief of police to each member of the police
department. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
2-9-22: VIOLATIONS AND DISCIPLINE
   The chief of police has the authority to initiate an investigation into any
complaints of violations of this article or the general orders of the
department committed by an employee or member of the department. Investigations
shall be conducted in accordance with 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 725
commonly referred to as the uniform peace officers' disciplinary act.
   Progressive discipline shall be used at all times. The chief of police has
the authority to verbally warn an officer of an offense, provide the officer
with a written warning and/or suspend the officer for up to three (3)
consecutive days without the approval of the city council.
   Where appropriate, the city council shall be apprised of all investigations
and the results of the investigation. In cases where the chief of police is
requesting discipline in excess of a three (3) day suspension, up to and
including termination, the officer has the right to a hearing before the city
council. The hearing shall be in conformance with the provisions of the uniform
peace officers' disciplinary act and the city council shall have discretionary
powers to discipline in the form of verbal or written warnings, suspension from
duty, reduction in rank and/or dismissal from duty. (Ord. 826, 3-6-2007)
ARTICLE 10
SALARIES
SECTION:
   
2-10-1: Salary Of City Clerk
   
2-10-2: Salary Of Mayor
   
2-10-3: Compensation Of City Treasurer
   
2-10-4: Compensation Of Aldermen
   
2-10-5: Salary Of Zoning Officer
   
2-10-6: Utility Clerk; Salary
2-10-1: SALARY OF CITY CLERK
   The salary of the City Clerk shall be twenty-two thousand dollars
($22,000.00) per annum. The Clerk shall not receive any additional compensation
and shall specifically not receive any collection fees in connection with the
payment of water and sewer charges. (Ord. 975, 7-21-2020; amd. Ord. 999, 4-16-
2024)
2-10-2: SALARY OF MAYOR
   The salary of the Mayor shall be ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per
annum. (Ord. 971, 10-15-2019)
2-10-3: COMPENSATION OF CITY TREASURER
   The starting compensation of the City Treasurer shall be four thousand five
hundred dollars ($4,500.00) per annum. The City Treasurer may receive further
fees or compensation for his/her services as such Treasurer at the discretion
of the City Council. (Ord. 900, 5-19-2015)
2-10-4: COMPENSATION OF ALDERMEN
   The compensation of Aldermen of the City shall be five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per annum, subject to a requirement that the Aldermen attend at
least fifty percent (50%) of the regularly scheduled Council meetings and
special Council meetings. In the event an Alderman does not attend fifty
percent (50%) of said meetings, his salary shall be fifty percent (50%) of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
per year. Committee meeting and other types of meetings other than council
meetings shall not be counted in determining the fifty percent (50%) attendance
requirement. The Alderman shall be paid twice per year so they receive one-half
(1/2) of their payment for each six (6) month period. The calculation of the
fifty percent (50%) attendance shall be based on said six (6) month period so
that if an Alderman fails to attend fifty percent (50%) of the meetings during
a said six (6) month period, the amount actually paid to that Alderman shall be
one thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00). (Ord. 971, 10-15-2019)
2-10-5: SALARY OF ZONING OFFICER
   The Zoning Officer of the City of Lanark may receive a salary of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per year based on a fiscal year if said officer
does not hold another paid position with the City. (Ord. 925, 5-17-2016)
2-10-6: UTILITY CLERK; SALARY
   The position of Utility Clerk was established on December 5, 2000. Said job
shall be by appointment of the City Council and shall be the same person who is
acting as City Clerk unless the Council votes affirmatively to award it to a
separate individual. The salary of the Utility Clerk shall be set by the City
Council. (Ord. 931, 11-1-2016, eff. 4-1-2017)
ARTICLE 11
CONDUCT OF CITY EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
   
2-11-1: General Restrictions
   
2-11-2: Absence From Duty
   
2-11-3: Attention To Duty
   
2-11-4: Asleep On Duty
   
2-11-5: Department Stationery
   
2-11-6: Insubordination
   
2-11-7: Courtesy
   
2-11-8: Criticizing
   
2-11-9: Care Of Equipment
   
2-11-10: Lost Equipment
   
2-11-11: Furlough
   
2-11-12: Performance Of Duties
   
2-11-13: Drinking
   
2-11-14: Altercations
   
2-11-15: Conduct
   
2-11-16: Resignation
   
2-11-17: Other Laws
   
2-11-18: Probationary Period (Rep. by Ord. 770, 5-6-2003)
   
2-11-19: Chain Of Command
   
2-11-20: Attendance At Council Meetings
   
2-11-21: Residence Requirements
   
2-11-22: Sick Leave   
   
2-11-23: Violations And Discipline
2-11-1: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS
   Restrictions set forth in this article shall apply to all city employees. In
those situations in which this code provides specific requirements for a given
employment position or department such as police regulations which are in
conflict with this article, the specific provisions shall be controlling. With
the exception of conflicts with specific provisions this article shall apply to
all city employees. (1982 Code)
2-11-2: ABSENCE FROM DUTY
   No member of any city department shall be absent from his regular hours of
duty without permission. In event of sickness, notice shall be given to the
department head allowing him ample time to cancel days off or make other
necessary changes to fill the vacancy of any such persons reporting sick. (1982
Code)
2-11-3: ATTENTION TO DUTY
   All members of all city departments, regardless of position, shall at all
times be attentive to their duties. (1982 Code)
2-11-4: ASLEEP ON DUTY
   Sleeping or loafing on duty is a serious dereliction, and any member or
employee of the department guilty of such conduct is subject to charges for
neglect of duty. (1982 Code)
2-11-5: DEPARTMENT STATIONERY
   Department stationery shall not be used for personal correspondence, nor
shall any department property, whatsoever, be used for private purposes. (1982
Code)
2-11-6: INSUBORDINATION
   Members and employees of all city departments shall treat their superior
officers with respect, and in their demeanor toward other associates in the
department shall be courteous and considerate, guarding themselves against
jealousy and other unfriendly feelings. It is their duty to inform their
superior officers of any neglect or disobedience of orders that may come to
their knowledge. Members and employees shall not, under any circumstances, or
in any manner whatsoever, speak critically or derogatorily to any member of the
department, or to any person outside the department regarding the orders or
instructions issued by a superior officer, provided, however, in any case where
there is a sound reason to believe that such orders or instructions are
inconsistent or unjust, it is the right and duty of any member or employee to
appeal to higher authority. (1982 Code)
2-11-7: COURTESY
   Courtesy and civility towards the public are demanded from all members and
employees of the department and any conduct to the contrary will not be
tolerated. Members and employees in their conduct and deportment shall be
quiet, civil and orderly and shall at all times be attentive and serious in the
discharge of their duties, controlling their tempers and exercising the utmost
patience and discretion. They must at all times refrain from using violent,
profane and insolent language, but when required must act with sufficient force
to perform their duties. They shall be civil and respectful towards each other.
(1982 Code)
2-11-8: CRITICIZING
   Members of the department shall not discuss or criticize publicly or
privately the personal habits, character or conduct or the official action of
other members of the department unless it be a violation of the rules and
regulations, in which case the same should be reported to their superior
officers. (1982 Code)
2-11-9: CARE OF EQUIPMENT
   Members and employees of the department shall be responsible for the good
care of department property whether fixed or movable, assigned to their use or
keeping, and shall promptly report to their department heads the loss or damage
to, or unserviceable condition of such property. Roughness or carelessness in
the handling of such property will not be tolerated and will be made the
subject of charges of superior officers who will be responsible for the strict
enforcement of this rule.
   Any member found guilty of damages to or destruction of city property,
either through wilfulness or negligence, shall be required to pay all costs of
repairs or replacements thereto, besides suffering any penalty for the
violation of this section. (1982 Code)
2-11-10: LOST EQUIPMENT
   All members of the department shall immediately report to the appropriate
city official the loss of any city equipment that has been furnished to the
individual. (1982 Code)
2-11-11: FURLOUGH
   When the department appropriation for the maintenance of the respective
departments is sufficient and no emergencies exist, furloughs with full pay
will be granted to each member of a department for a period of ten (10) 8-hour
working days each year, which will be known as annual vacation furlough;
provided, however, no member who has served less than one year in the
respective departments shall be entitled to annual vacation furlough. The
department head or the city council shall designate when said annual vacation
furlough shall take place.
   The department head or the city council shall have the right to refuse or
cancel any annual vacation furlough or days off in the event of any emergency.
(1982 Code)
2-11-12: PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES
   No member of any city department shall perform his duty or duties in an
ineffective manner. (1982 Code)
2-11-13: DRINKING
   Members of city departments shall not drink any intoxicating liquor while on
duty. (1982 Code)
2-11-14: ALTERCATIONS
   Members of the department shall refrain from physical altercations. (1982
Code)
2-11-15: CONDUCT
   No member of a city department shall conduct himself in a disorderly or any
other manner as to bring discredit upon the department. (1982 Code)
2-11-16: RESIGNATION
   All members of city departments shall give fourteen (14) days' written
notice to their superior or to the city council of their intention of resigning
from a city department. Any member leaving the department without due notice as
aforesaid shall be disqualified from ever again being employed by the city.
However, before any resignation is accepted all equipment and property
belonging to the city must be surrendered to the city. (1982 Code)
2-11-17: OTHER LAWS
   In addition to the within rules and regulations as established by the city
council, the laws of the state, ordinances of the city, and federal laws
pertaining to and affecting city employees shall be the governing factors in
the conduct of all members of the city departments, who shall at all times be
subject to the same.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the department head and mayor to enforce the
foregoing rules and regulations.
   B.   A copy of the foregoing rules and regulations shall be delivered as
promptly as possible by the department head to each member of his department.
(1982 Code)
2-11-18: PROBATIONARY PERIOD
   (Rep. by Ord. 770, 5-6-2003)
2-11-19: CHAIN OF COMMAND
   All employees will be subject to instructions from the head of the
departments. They are also subject to instructions from the council as a whole
and from committee chairman of the representative city council committee
dealing with the area in which the employees are engaged. (1982 Code)
2-11-20: ATTENDANCE AT COUNCIL MEETINGS
   Employees shall attend all council meetings. At said council meetings any
problems involving the employee should be brought to the council's attention.
An employee shall have a right to request an executive session to discuss
problems he wishes to bring before the council, provided the topic for
discussion is appropriate for an executive session consistent with the Illinois
open meeting law and other statutory restrictions on executive sessions. (1982
Code)
2-11-21: RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS
   There shall be no residence requirement concerning city employees. City
employees may live within the city of Lanark or outside the city of Lanark
without any limitation. (Ord. 812, 5-9-2006)
2-11-22: SICK LEAVE
   All employees on a full time basis shall receive ten (10) days' sick leave
per year not to be carried into the next year and to be used as follows: If
used one or two (2) days at a time, proof of sickness may be demanded by the
council. In all situations extending for more than two (2) days, proof of
sickness shall be presented to the council. In addition all employees shall
have three (3) personal days per year. Neither sick leave nor personal days
shall accumulate. (1982 Code)
2-11-23: VIOLATIONS AND DISCIPLINE
   Should at any time the city council determine that an employee of the city
has violated any of the provisions of this article, the city council shall have
a right to discipline said employee. The city council shall have broad
discretion in the form of said discipline which may include suspension for a
period of time, deductions to pay, and/or dismissal. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 12
ZONING AND NOXIOUS WEED COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
   
2-12-1: Office Created; Appointment
   
2-12-2: Duties
2-12-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT
   There is hereby created the office of Zoning and Noxious Weed Commissioner.
The office of Zoning and Noxious Weed Commissioner shall be filled by
appointment by a majority vote of the City Council. The appointment shall
continue until the person so appointed resigns, vacates the office or is
removed by a majority vote of those present at any lawfully declared City
Council meeting.
2-12-2: DUTIES
   The duties of the office shall be as follows:
   A.   Those duties of the Zoning Officer as outlined in the Zoning Ordinance
of the City. 1
   B.   To take actions including the filing of complaints through the
appropriate City ordinances for any person or persons found to violate City
ordinances concerning noxious weeds being allowed to grow within the City
limits. 2
   C.   To take steps including spraying, plowing, etc., to destroy noxious
weeds found to be growing on City property or on other property where said
action is deemed appropriate by the City Council. (Ord. 583, 9-18-84)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code, especially Section 10-13-1.
2 2. See Sections 5-2-8B, 5-5-11 and 10-11-4B of this Code.
ARTICLE 13
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION
SECTION:
   
2-13-1: Access to Public Records
2-13-1: ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Lanark,
Carroll County, Illinois, as follows:
   A.   Requests for Access to Records: The City Clerk is hereby designated as
the person to whom all initial requests for access to the records of the City
are to be referred. Such requests are to be made at the office of the City
Clerk at City Hall, between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday. In the event that the City Clerk is
not available during the times described above, the Mayor is designated as the
person to whom such initial requests are to be made.
   B.   Retrieving Records: Any records which are the subject of a request
under the Freedom of Information Act shall be retrieved from such place as they
are stored, by the City Clerk or by an employee acting under the direction of
the City Clerk. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting
them or by any person who is not employed under the direction of the City
Clerk.
   C.   Fee for Copies: If copies of records are requested, the fees for such
copies, whether certified or not, shall be determined from time to time by the
City Clerk. The City Clerk shall maintain a written schedule of current fees in
the City Clerk's office. The fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of
copying the records, and cost of certifying copies, if certification is
requested.
   D.   Denial of Request; Appeal: In the event that a request to inspect City
records is denied by the City Clerk, the denial may be appealed to the Mayor of
the City. Such an appeal must be made within fourteen (14) days after the
requesting party receives the written notice denying said request; or, in the
event that the denial is not by letter, the appeal must be made fourteen (14)
days after the request is effectively denied. In the absence of the Mayor,
appeals from denials of requests for access shall be made to the Treasurer in
the times set forth above.
   E.   Documents Prepared by Clerk: The City Clerk shall prepare:
      1.   A City of Lanark Information Directory;
      2.    A block diagram of the functional subdivisions of the City of
Lanark;
      3.   A City of Lanark Records Directory; and
      4.    A Records Catalogue, all of which shall be substantially in the
same form as the documents attached to City Ordinance 586 and made a part
hereof as Exhibits "A", "B", "C", and "D". (Ord. 586, 3-5-85)
ARTICLE 14
DRUG-FREE ZONE
SECTION:
   
2-14-1: Drug-Free Zone Established
2-14-1: DRUG-FREE ZONE ESTABLISHED
   A.   In accordance with and pursuant to the authority of 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 570/407, it is the purpose of this Section to establish a
drug-free zone to encompass all areas included in the following:
      1.   All areas used for school purposes which are owned by or leased to
any elementary or secondary school or school board and for any areas on or
within one thousand feet (1,000') of such school property;
      2.   Residential property owned, operated, or managed by a public housing
agency and any area on or within one thousand feet (1,000') of such residential
public housing property;
      3.   Public park purposes and the areas on or within one thousand feet
(1,000') of such public park property.
   B.   This Section shall affect all property fitting under subsection A1
through 3 above. In addition, this Section shall be amended to reflect any
additions or deletions with respect to the location of boundaries of such
school, public housing, and public park property now or at any time in the
future.
   C.   The school board or the chief administrative office in the case of a
private or parochial school is hereby directed and shall have the continuing
obligation to promptly notify the Mayor of the City and the City Attorney of
any changes in the location of boundaries of any property owned by or leased to
any elementary or secondary school or school board and which is used for school
purposes.
   D.   Any public housing authorities operating within said limits of the City
are hereby directed and shall have the continuing obligation to promptly notify
the Mayor and City Attorney of the City of any changes in the location and
boundaries of any residential property owned, operated, or managed within the
City. (Ord. 670, 11-15-1994)
ARTICLE 15
SMOKE-FREE ENVIRONMENT
SECTION:
   
2-15-1: Smoking In Municipal Buildings; Vehicles
2-15-1: SMOKING IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS; VEHICLES
   A.   It is the policy of the City to ensure all users of the Municipal
buildings and vehicles of the City a smoke-free environment to the maximum
extent allowed by law.
   B.   Smoking in the Municipal buildings and vehicles of the City is
prohibited at all times and places except within private, enclosed offices
which are occupied exclusively by smokers even though such offices may be
visited by nonsmokers, as approved by the City Council after a request for such
approval by the occupant thereof. There shall be no designated smoking areas
within any Municipal buildings of the City. (Ord. 672, 4-4-1995)
ARTICLE 16
ETHICS
SECTION:
   
2-16-1: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
2-16-1: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
   A.   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq., (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city of
Lanark to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city of Lanark,
is hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employees of the city of Lanark under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the city of Lanark, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city of Lanark.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city of Lanark if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect, however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city of
Lanark. (Ord. 784, 5-18-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
ARTICLE 17
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS
AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
   
2-17-1: Title
   
2-17-2: Scope
   
2-17-3: Definitions
   
2-17-4: Notices
   
2-17-5: Late Payment
   
2-17-6: Payment
   
2-17-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
   
2-17-8: Audit Procedure
   
2-17-9: Appeal
   
2-17-10: Hearing
   
2-17-11: Interest And Penalties
   
2-17-12: Abatement
   
2-17-13: Installment Contracts
   
2-17-14: Statute Of Limitations
   
2-17-15: Voluntary Disclosure
   
2-17-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
   
2-17-17: Lien
   
2-17-18: Application
2-17-1: TITLE
   This article shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-2: SCOPE
   The provisions of this article shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-3: DEFINITIONS
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CITY: The city of Lanark, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city's mayor and city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's mayor is charged with the administration
and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The local tax
administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this article
to give full effect to this article. The exercise of such authority by the
local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this article and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000) !DEFEND!
2-17-4: NOTICES
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   A.   First-class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-5: LATE PAYMENT
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-6: PAYMENT
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS
   A.   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this article.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approving in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-9: APPEAL
   A.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-10: HEARING
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or tax collector has filed a timely written protest
and petition for hearing under section
2-17-9 of this article, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be nine
percent (9%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   B.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-12: ABATEMENT
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due or end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made no later than ninety (90) days after
the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the
local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and the exhaustion of
all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local
tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-17: LIEN
   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
743, 12-5-2000)
2-17-18: APPLICATION
   This article shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all
of the city's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this article, this article shall be
controlling. (Ord. 743, 12-5-2000)
ARTICLE 18
TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT
SECTION:
   
2-18-1: Purpose
   
2-18-2: Definitions
   
2-18-3: Authorized Types Of Official Business
   
2-18-4: Categories Of Expenses
   
2-18-5: Approval Of Expenses
   
2-18-6: Documentation Of Expenses
   
2-18-7: Travel, Meal, And Lodging Expense Report Form
2-18-1: PURPOSE
   The City of Lanark, Illinois ("City") will reimburse employee and officer
travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred in connection with pre-approved
travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred on behalf of the City. Employees
and officers are expected to exercise the same care in incurring expenses for
official business as a prudent person would in spending personal funds. (Ord.
933, 12-6-2016)
2-18-2: DEFINITIONS
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
TRAVEL: Means any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the City involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment
to private agencies providing transportation or related services. (Ord. 933,
12-6-2016)
2-18-3: AUTHORIZED TYPES OF OFFICIAL BUSINESS
   Travel, meal and lodging expenses will be reimbursed for employees and
officers of the City only for purposes of official business conducted on behalf
of the City. These include but are not limited to off-site or out-of-town
meetings related to official business and pre-approved seminars, conferences or
other educational events related to the employee's or officer's official
duties. If you are unsure whether an expense is reimbursable, please contact
the Mayor. (Ord. 933, 12-6-2016)
2-18-4: CATEGORIES OF EXPENSES
   A.   Airfare: Travelers are expected to obtain the lowest available airfare
that reasonably meets business travel needs. Travelers are encouraged to book
flights at least thirty (30) days in advance to avoid premium airfare pricing.
Only coach or economy tickets will be paid or reimbursed. The traveler will pay
for the difference between higher priced tickets and coach or economy tickets
with his or her personal funds.
   B.   Personal Automobiles: Mileage reimbursement will be based on mileage
from the work location office to the off-site location of the official
business, not from the employee's or officer's residence. When attending a
training event or other off-site official business directly from an employee's
or officer's residence, no reimbursement will be made if the distance is less
than the mileage of a normal commute to the workplace. If the distance is
higher than the employee's or officer's normal commute, reimbursement will be
paid based on the differential of the commute less the mileage of a normal
commute to the workplace. An employee or officer will be reimbursed at the
prevailing IRS mileage rate. The traveler will only be reimbursed up to the
price of a coach airfare ticket if they drive to a location for which airfare
would have been less expensive.
   C.   Automobile Rentals: Travelers will be reimbursed for the cost of
renting an automobile including gasoline expense only as provided in this
section. Travelers using rental cars to conduct official business are required
to purchase insurance through the rental agency. Car rental insurance will
cover the vehicle during personal use, e.g., using the vehicle after the
conference has ended. Compact or mid-size cars are required for two (2) or
fewer employees or officers traveling together and a full-size vehicle may be
used for three (3) or more travelers. The traveler must refuel the vehicle
before returning it to the rental company.
   D.   Public Transportation: In the case of local training or official
business where an employee or officer chooses to use public transportation,
reimbursement for use of public transportation is based on mileage from the
agency office to the training site (not from the traveler's residence),
regardless of the transportation method chosen. When attending training or
business directly from an employee's or officer's residence, no reimbursement
will be made if the distance is less than the mileage of a normal commute to
the workplace. If the distance is higher than the traveler's normal commute,
reimbursement will be paid at the differential of the commute less the mileage
of a normal commute to the workplace.
   E.   Other Transportation: The traveler should utilize hotel shuttle service
or other shuttle services, if available. If none are offered, the use of the
most economic transportation is encouraged.
   F.   Hotel/Motel Accommodations: The traveler will be reimbursed for a
standard single room at locations convenient to the business activity. In the
event of a change in plans or a cancellation, the traveler must cancel the
hotel/motel reservation so as not to incur cancellation charges. Cancellation
charges will not be reimbursed by the City unless approved by a vote of the
City Council.
   G.   Meals: Meal reimbursement is limited to the current U.S. General
Services Administration (GSA) regulations in place at the time the expense
occurred. Prior approval by the City Council and submission of receipts are
required for per diem allowances. Meals provided by the conference or seminar
should be deducted from the per diem allowance. Partial reimbursement may be
made for departure and return days based on time. Meals during in-State travel
that is not an overnight stay will be reimbursed for actual cost not to exceed
the GSA regulations.
   H.   Vacation In Conjunction With Business Travel: In cases where vacation
time is added to a business trip, any cost variance in airfare, car rental,
lodging and/or any other expenses must be clearly identified on the Travel,
Meal, and Lodging Expense Report Form and paid by the traveler.
   I.   Accompanied Travel: When a traveler is accompanied by others not on
official business, any lodging, transportation, meals or other expenses above
those incurred for the authorized traveler will not be reimbursed by the City.
   J.   Parking: Parking fees at a hotel/motel, conference center, or other
site will be reimbursed only with a receipt.
   K.   Entertainment Expenses: No employee or officer of the City shall be
reimbursed for any entertainment expense, unless ancillary to the purpose of
the program, event or other official business. (Ord. 933, 12-6-2016)
2-18-5: APPROVAL OF EXPENSES
   A.   Expenses For Members Of The City Council: Travel, meal, and lodging
expenses incurred by any member of the City Council must be approved by roll
call vote at an open meeting of the City Council.
   B.   Expenses For Officials Or Employees Other Than Members Of The City
Council: Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by an official or employee
not covered by subsection A of this section (member of the City Council) in
excess of the maximum dollar amount set by the City Council must be previously
approved in an open meeting by a majority roll-call vote of the City Council.
   C.   Advanced Expenses: Travel, meal, and lodging expenses advanced as a per
diem to any employee or official of the City must be approved by roll call vote
at an open meeting of the City Council prior to payment. Documentation of
expenses must be provided in accordance with sections
2-18-3,
2-18-4 and
2-18-6 of this article, and any excess from the per diem must be repaid.
   D.   Other Expenses: All other expenses that do not fall within subsection
A, B, or C of this section are subject to the Mayor's approval. (Ord. 933, 12-
6-2016)
2-18-6: DOCUMENTATION OF EXPENSES
   Before an expense for travel, meals, or lodging may be approved under
section
2-18-5 of this article, the following minimum documentation must first be
submitted, in writing, to the Mayor on a Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense
Form:
   A.   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses have
not been incurred or a receipt for the travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have already been incurred;
   B.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the travel,
meal, or lodging expense reimbursement;
   C.   The job title or office of the individual who received or is requesting
the travel, meal, or lodging expense reimbursement; and
   D.   The date or dates and nature of the official business for which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   All documents and information submitted in connection with this article are
public records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act.
(Ord. 933, 12-6-2016)
2-18-7: TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSE REPORT FORM
   The City hereby adopts as its official standardized form for the submission
of travel, meal, and lodging expenses the Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense
Report Form on file in the City. (Ord. 933, 12-6-2016)
ARTICLE 19
CITY DONATION OR SPONSORSHIP
SECTION:
   
2-19-1: Policy Concerning Requests For City Donation Or Sponsorship
   
2-19-2: Conflicting Ordinances
2-19-1: POLICY CONCERNING REQUESTS FOR CITY DONATION OR SPONSORSHIP
   The "City of Lanark Illinois Policy Concerning Requests for City Donation or
Sponsorship From Outside Organizations and Agencies", as published by the City
of Lanark, is hereby adopted. (Ord. 935, 4-4-2017)
2-19-2: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
   Any prior ordinances inconsistent with this article are hereby repealed
insomuch as they are in conflict with this article. (Ord. 935, 4-4-2017)
ARTICLE 20
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
   
2-20-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
   
2-20-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
   
2-20-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
   
2-20-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
   
2-20-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
   
2-20-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
2-20-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the City of Lanark to prohibit
harassment of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal
employee, municipal agency or municipal office on the basis of sex or gender.
All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal
agencies or municipal offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any
person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 945,
1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 960, 11-6-2018; Ord. 974, 6-16-2020)
2-20-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct
of a sexual nature when;
   A.   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of an
individual's employment, either explicitly or implicitly; or
   B.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used as
the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
   C.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not limited
to:
   A.   Verbal Harassment: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults,
humor, jokes about: sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates; or, statements of a sexual
nature about other employees, even outside of their presence.
   B.   Non-verbal Harassment: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling),
leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls,"
"smacking" or "kissing" noises.
   C.   Visual: posters, signs pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature, viewing
pornographic material or websites.
   D.   Physical Harassment: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
   E.   Textual/Electronic Harassment; "sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures or video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail/text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and posts on social network websites like
Facebook and Twitter).
   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person." (Ord. 945, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 960, 11-6-
2018; Ord. 974, 6-16-2020)
2-20-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact with Supeivisory Personnel. At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
director of human resources, an ethics officer, the city manager or
administrator, or the chief elected official of the municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
      4.   Allegations of Sexual Harassment made against an elected official of
the governmental unit by another elected official of a governmental unit. In
addition to the methods of reporting included above, an elected official may
request an independent review of a complaint of sexual harassment by another
elected official. The request shall be made to the human resources director,
the city manager or administrator or the chief elected official of the
municipality. The official receiving the request shall take immediate action in
keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to retain a qualified
individual or entity for the independent review of the allegations of sexual
harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of the independent review
shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 945,
1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 960, 11-6-2018; Ord. 974, 6-16-2020)
2-20-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS
   A.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee's or official's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
or
      2.   Providing information related to an investigation or testimony
before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's or official's involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against, even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, and this policy prohibits
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, agency, or other
employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule,
or regulation; or
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, agency or other employee; or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act or this policy.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Right Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire to
retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge within 300 days of alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 945, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 960, 11-6-2018; Ord. 974, 6-16-2020)
2-20-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT
   In addition to any and ail other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreements, any person who violates this policy or
the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be
subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense,
applicable disciplinary actions or discharge by the municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state
law or federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a state or federal agency.
(Ord. 945, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 960, 11-6-2018; Ord. 974, 6-16-2020)
2-20-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT
   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser to
accomplish an outcome other than stopping sexual harassment or stopping
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the Illinois State Police, a
State's Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law enforcement official is
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any
person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 945, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 960, 11-6-2018; Ord. 974, 6-16-2020)
CHAPTER 3
APPOINTED BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE 1
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
   
3-1-1: Establishment
   
3-1-2: Term
   
3-1-3: Organization
   
3-1-4: Duties And Functions
   
3-1-5: Rules And Regulations
3-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT
   There shall be a board of library directors for the city as provided by law.
The board shall consist of nine (9) directors to be appointed by the mayor by
and with the consent of the council. (1982 Code)
3-1-2: TERM
   The term of the library directors shall be three (3) years, staggered so
that three (3) terms expire each year, as provided by law. (1982 Code)
3-1-3: ORGANIZATION
   The said library directors shall select a president and secretary as
provided by statute, and shall meet at such time as the library board may
determine. (1982 Code)
3-1-4: DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS
   The library board shall have charge of the operation of the city library and
of the expenditure of all library funds. The library treasurer shall file each
year with the city clerk at the first regular meeting of the city council in
the month of May a full and complete report of all money received and paid out
by the library treasurer during the fiscal year (April 1 through March 31)
first preceding the filing of such report, and of all assets in the hands of
the treasurer of the library board, which report shall be presented to the city
council at said regular meeting. (Ord. 875, 3-19-2013)
3-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The board of library directors shall have the power to make any reasonable
rules and regulations governing the use of the library facilities. Any person
violating any such rule shall be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor
more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for such offense. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 2
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
   (Rep. by Ord. 1005, 8-6-2024)
ARTICLE 3
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
    (Rep. by Ord. 912, 10-20-2015)
ARTICLE 4
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
   (Rep. by Ord. 914, 10-20-2015)
ARTICLE 5
LANARK CITY RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
   
3-5-1: Establishment
   
3-5-2: Term
   
3-5-3: Purpose
   
3-5-4: Organization
   
3-5-5: Duties
   
3-5-6: Written Roster
   
3-5-7: Rules And Regulations
3-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT
   There is hereby established the Lanark city recreation board. The board
shall have three (3) members to be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council. (Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
3-5-2: TERM
   After appointment each member shall serve on the board until said member
resigns or a replacement is appointed by the mayor. (Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
3-5-3: PURPOSE
   The board shall be in charge of organizing city sponsored sports and
recreational activities inside the city of Lanark. (Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
3-5-4: ORGANIZATION
   The board shall set their own agendas and shall meet on a basis to be
established by the board. However, the mayor shall at all times be free to call
a meeting at any time he feels it is necessary. (Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
3-5-5: DUTIES
   The board shall be in charge of appointing coaches, assistant coaches,
referees, directors and/or any other officers the board feels are appropriate
for any sports being undertaken through city offices. Initially the board shall
be in charge of appointing persons to act as officials with regard to the
basketball program, volleyball program and football program which are currently
being undertaken in the city. The board shall be free to set up additional
recreational programs be they of a sports nature or other types of recreation.
(Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
3-5-6: WRITTEN ROSTER
   All officials appointed by the board shall be listed in a written roster and
a copy of the roster shall be delivered to the city clerk to be maintained with
the city records. The board may put specific periods of time for said
appointments or the appointments may be open ended. Any time the roster changes
a copy of the changed roster shall be delivered to the city clerk for filing in
the city records. (Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
3-5-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The board shall have the power to make reasonable rules and regulations with
regard to city sports and recreation. Any person found to be violating these
rules may be removed from any appointed position they hold or may be required
to leave any sporting or recreational activity and not to attend future
sporting or recreational activities which are under the auspices of the board.
(Ord. 778, 1-20-2004)
ARTICLE 6
LANARK CITY PARK BOARD
SECTION:
   
3-6-1: Establishment
   
3-6-2: Term
   
3-6-3: Purpose
   
3-6-4: Organization
   
3-6-5: Duties
   
3-6-6: Rules And Regulations
3-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT
   There is hereby established the Lanark City Park Board. The board shall have
five (5) members to be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council. (Ord. 921, 3-5-2016)
3-6-2: TERM
   Park Board members shall be appointed by the Mayor. Board members shall be
appointed for one year. Board members may serve multiple consecutive terms.
(Ord. 921, 3-5-2016)
3-6-3: PURPOSE
   The board shall be in charge of establishing park rules and regulations,
ensuring the upkeep of the properties and equipment, and making improvements as
needed and as prescribed by law. (Ord. 921, 3-5-2016)
3-6-4: ORGANIZATION
   The board shall set their own agendas and shall meet on a basis to be
established by the board. However, the Mayor shall at all times be free to call
a meeting at any time he feels it is necessary. (Ord. 921, 3-5-2016)
3-6-5: DUTIES
   The Park Board shall have charge of the operation of the City Park and of
the expenditure of all park funds. The board shall prepare a prioritized
comprehensive capital improvement plan including, but not limited to, a plan to
make the park ADA compliant by the end of March 31, 2018. The Park Treasurer
shall file each year with the City Clerk at the first regular meeting of the
City Council in the month of May a full and complete report of all money
received and paid out by the Park Treasurer during the fiscal year (April 1
through March 31), which report shall be presented to the City Council at said
regular meeting. The board may receive gifts of money and other property to be
held and used for City Park purposes only. (Ord. 921, 3-5-2016)
3-6-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The board shall have the power to make reasonable rules and regulations with
regard to the City Park. (Ord. 921, 3-5-2016)
ARTICLE 7
HERITAGE CENTER BOARD
SECTION:
   
3-7-1: Establishment
   
3-7-2: Term
   
3-7-3: Purpose
   
3-7-4: Organization
   
3-7-5: Officers
   
3-7-6: Rules And Regulations
3-7-1: ESTABLISHMENT
   There is hereby established the Lanark Heritage Center Board. The Heritage
Center Board shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than eleven (11)
individuals appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Lanark
City Council. (Ord. 939, 5-16-2017)
3-7-2: TERM
   The term for Heritage Center Board members shall be for three (3) year
terms. Board members may serve consecutive terms. (Ord. 939, 5-16-2017)
3-7-3: PURPOSE
   The purpose of the Heritage Center Board shall be to operate the Heritage
Center for the benefit of the citizens of the City of Lanark and surrounding
area. (Ord. 939, 5-16-2017)
3-7-4: ORGANIZATION
   The board shall set its own agendas and shall establish its own schedule of
meetings and special meetings. The board shall create its own constitution and
by-laws consistent with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 939, 5-16-2017)
3-7-5: OFFICERS
   The board shall establish its own officers through its bylaws. (Ord. 939, 5-
16-2017)
3-7-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The board shall have the power to make reasonable rules and regulations with
regard to the operation of the Heritage Center under the supervision of the
City Council of the City of Lanark. The board shall periodically report to the
City Council and the City Council and the board shall consult with each other
to assure the best use of the Heritage Center for the benefit of the citizens
of Lanark and the surrounding area. (Ord. 939, 5-16-2017)
ARTICLE 8
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING BOARD
SECTION:
   
3-8-1:    Establishment
   
3-8-2:    Term
   
3-8-3:    Purpose
   
3-8-4:    Organization
   
3-8-5:    Officers
   
3-8-6:    Rules And Regulations
3-8-1: ESTABLISHMENT
   There is hereby established the Lanark Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Board.
The Tax Increment Financing Board shall consist of three (3) persons appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Lanark City Council. (Ord. 993,
2-7-2023)
3-8-2: TERM
   After appointment each member shall serve on the board until said member
resigns or a replacement is appointed by the Mayor. (Ord. 993, 2-7-2023)
3-8-3: PURPOSE
   The purpose of the Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Board shall be to aid the
Mayor and the City Council in making TIF awards to deserving citizens of the
City of Lanark. (Ord. 993, 2-7-2023)
3-8-4: ORGANIZATION
   The Board shall set its own agendas and shall establish its own schedule of
meetings and special meetings. The Board shall create its own by-laws
consistent with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 993, 2-7-2023)
3-8-5: OFFICERS
   The Board shall establish its own officers through its bylaws. (Ord. 993, 2-
7-2023)
3-8-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The Board shall have the power to prepare an application for Tax Increment
Financing and create rules and regulations with regard to the application
process under the supervision of the City Council of the City of Lanark. The
Board shall periodically report to the City Council concerning its activities.
(Ord. 993, 2-7-2023)
CHAPTER 4
MERCHANTS AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
   
4-1-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
   
4-1-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
   
4-1-3: Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
4-1-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in the City at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   Every such person engaged in such business in the City shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by section three of "An Act in Relation to a Tax
upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to
Purchasers for Use or Consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
   D.   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State Department
of Revenue a certified copy of this Section not later than five (5) days after
the effective date of this Section.
   E.   This Section shall be published within ten (10) days of its enactment
as provided in section 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code and shall be
effective from and after October 1, 1969.
4-1-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this Municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen
either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate
as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for Municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this Municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue required by section nine of the "Service Occupation Tax Act", approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
   C.   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
   D.   The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State Department
of Revenue a certified copy of this Section not later than five (5) days after
the effective date of this Section.
   E.   This Section shall be published within ten (10) days of its enactment
as provided in section 1-2-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code and shall be
effective from and after October 1, 1969.
4-1-3: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
   A.   Tax imposed; Rate:
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City of Lanark at the rate
of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
      2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
   B.   Collection of tax by retailers:
      1.   The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this Ordinance and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
      2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 970, 9-17-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
ARTICLE 2
CANVASSERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
   
4-2-1: Registration
   
4-2-2: Fee
   
4-2-3: Application Review And Permit Issuance
   
4-2-4: Denial Of Permit
   
4-2-5: Certificate And Identification
   
4-2-6: Exemptions
   
4-2-7: Hours Of Solicitation
   
4-2-8: Permit Revocation
   
4-2-9: Notice Of Revocation
   
4-2-10: Appeals
   
4-2-11: Claims Of Exemption
   
4-2-12: Penalty
4-2-1: REGISTRATION
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a canvasser or
solicitor, calling at residences, businesses or any other entity within the
municipal boundaries of the city without previous consent of the occupant for
the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, or business of any
kind, or seeking for information or donations without first having registered
with the police department of the city of Lanark. The registrant shall provide
the following information: (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
   A.   Proof of age, address and identification of the applicant, to be
provided through the applicant's driver's license, articles of incorporation
(for sponsors), or other legally recognized form of identification;
   B.   A brief description of the business or activity to be conducted;
   C.   The hours and location for which the right to peddle or solicit is
desired;
   D.   If employed, the name, address and telephone number of the employer; or
if acting as an agent, the name, address and telephone number of the principal
who is being represented, with credentials in written form establishing the
relationship and the authority of the employee or agent to act for the employer
or principal, as the case may be;
   E.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of a
felony, misdemeanor or ordinance violation (other than traffic violations)
within the last ten (10) years, the nature of the offense or violation, the
penalty or punishment imposed, the date when and place where such offense
occurred, and other pertinent details thereof;
   F.   Proof of possession of any license or permit which, under federal,
state or local laws or regulations, the applicant is required to have in order
to conduct the proposed business, or which, under any such law or regulation,
would exempt the applicant from the licensing requirements of this article; and
(Ord. 720, 12-1-1998)
   G.    Some type of photographic identification, either a recent photo or a
photo ID such as a driver's license or other type of photo ID which may be
copied by the police department and retained in the police department file.
(Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
4-2-2: FEE
   Each registrant shall pay a registration fee of five dollars ($5.00) per
person per day so that a fee of five dollars ($5.00) is paid for each day a
registrant intends to canvass or solicit within the city limits and each person
working for said registrant shall be charged said five dollar ($5.00) fee. This
fee may be waived by the city council. (Ord. 720, 12-1-1998)
4-2-3: APPLICATION REVIEW AND PERMIT ISSUANCE
   A.   Upon receipt of the application, the police chief, or personnel of the
police department, shall review the application as deemed necessary to ensure
the protection of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   If the application is found to be satisfactory, the chief of police or
police officers delegated by the chief shall endorse their approval on the
application and shall, upon payment of the prescribed fee, deliver the required
permit to the applicant. Said permit shall become effective forty eight (48)
hours after the time at which it is issued and no solicitation shall take place
during said forty eight (48) hour waiting period.
   C.   The permit shall show the name and address of the permittee, the class
of permit issued, the kind of goods or services to be sold or delivered, the
date of issuance, and the length of time that the permit shall be in effect.
The permit shall also show the permit number and identifying description of any
vehicle to be used in carrying on the business for which the permit is used.
Before the permit is issued, the police shall also take a photo of the
applicant which shall be retained with the application.
   D.   A record of all permits issued shall be maintained by the police
department for a period of two (2) years. (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
4-2-4: DENIAL OF PERMIT
   A.   Upon the police department's review of the application, the police
department may refuse to issue a permit to the applicant under this article for
any of the following reasons:
      1.   The location and time of solicitation or peddling would endanger the
safety and welfare of the solicitors, peddlers or their customers;
      2.   An investigation reveals that the applicant falsified information on
the application;
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor or
ordinance violation involving a sex offense, trafficking in controlled
substances, or any violent acts against persons or property, such conviction
being entered within the ten (10) years preceding the date of application;
      4.   The applicant is a person against whom a judgment based upon, or
conviction for, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation has been entered within the
ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of application;
      5.   There is no proof as to the authority of the applicant to serve as
an agent to the principal; or
      6.   The applicant has been denied a permit under this article within the
immediate past year, unless the applicant can and does show to the satisfaction
of the police department that the reasons for such earlier denial no longer
exist.
   B.   The police department's disapproval and the reasons for disapproval
shall be noted on the application, and the applicant shall be notified that his
application is disapproved and that no permit will be issued. Notice shall be
mailed to the applicant at the address shown on the application form, or at the
applicant's last known address. (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
4-2-5: CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION
   Each applicant who is issued a permit shall, at all times while soliciting
or canvassing in the city, carry upon his person said permit and a photo ID of
the applicant and the same shall be exhibited by such registrant whenever he is
required to do so by the city police or by any person solicited. (Ord. 840, 9-
2-2008)
4-2-6: EXEMPTIONS
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to officers or employees of
the city, county, state or federal government when on official business, or to
any bona fide residents of the city of Lanark or charitable organizations. Said
bona fide residents shall also include organizations which are residents of the
city and are representing local charities including local Girl Scout troops,
Boy Scout troops, Lions, Jaycees or other such organizations. (Ord. 840, 9-2-
2008)
4-2-7: HOURS OF SOLICITATION
   No person, while conducting the activities of a canvasser or solicitor,
whether licensed or unlicensed, shall enter upon any private property, knock on
doors or otherwise disturb persons in their residences except during the
following hours: Monday through Saturday, nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to dusk, and
at no time on Sundays. (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
4-2-8: PERMIT REVOCATION
   Any permit issued under this article may be revoked or suspended by the
chief of police or other police officers as designated by the chief of police,
after notice and hearing, for any of the following reasons: (Ord. 840, 9-2-
2008)
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a permit;
   B.    Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made by the permittee in
the course of conducting solicitation or peddling activities;
   C.   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities contrary to the
provisions contained in the permit;
   D.   Conviction for any crime involving moral turpitude; or
   E.   Conducting peddling or solicitation activities in such a manner as to
create a public nuisance, constitute a breach of the peace or endanger the
health, safety or general welfare of the public. (Ord. 720, 12-1-1998)
4-2-9: NOTICE OF REVOCATION
   The chief of police or other police officers as designated by the chief of
police shall conduct a hearing before issuing a revocation of the permit. Said
hearing shall be after notice is given to the permittee. Said notice may be in
writing or may be orally given prior to the hearing. A written statement shall
be provided setting forth specifically the grounds for the revocation. During
the revocation hearing process from the time the applicant is notified until it
is completed, no additional canvassing or soliciting shall take place. Should
any canvassing or soliciting take place during the appeals process at any time,
that shall be grounds for termination of the permit as a separate offense other
than the initially specified grounds for revocation. (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
4-2-10: APPEALS
   A.   Any person aggrieved by the action or decision of the chief of police
or other police officers designated by the chief of police to deny, suspend or
revoke a permit applied for under the provisions of this article shall have the
right to appeal such action or decision to the city council within fifteen (15)
days after the notice of the action or decision has been received by the
applicant or permittee. (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
   B.   An appeal shall be taken by filing with the city council a written
statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal.
   C.   A hearing shall be set not later than thirty (30) days from the date of
receipt of the appellant's written statement.
   D.   Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given to the
appellant by mailing it by first class mail to the appellant's last known
address.
   E.   The decision of the city council on the appeal shall be final and
binding on all parties concerned. (Ord. 720, 12-1-1998)
4-2-11: CLAIMS OF EXEMPTION
   Any person claiming to be legally exempt from the regulations set forth in
this article, or from the payment of a permit fee, shall cite the statute or
other legal authority under which exemption is claimed and shall present to the
chief of police or police officer designated by the chief of police proof of
qualification for such exemption. (Ord. 840, 9-2-2008)
4-2-12: PENALTY
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be fined as
provided in section
1-3-7 of this code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each occurrence in which any violation of this article takes place
or continues. (Ord. 720, 12-1-1998)
ARTICLE 2A
CHARITABLE SOLICITATION ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
   
4-2A-1: Definitions
   
4-2A-2: Permit For Charitable Solicitation
   
4-2A-3: Eligibility Requirements
   
4-2A-4: Safety Precautions
   
4-2A-5: Permit Issues
   
4-2A-6: Violations
4-2A-1: DEFINITIONS
PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR: Any individual who, for a financial or other
consideration, solicits contributions for, or on behalf of, any organization or
association.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, road, highway, or public way, including the
paved or unpaved surface of which the entire width extends laterally between
abutting curbs on each side, adjoining sidewalks or other pedestrian pathways,
and is generally used by the public for motor vehicle travel.
SOLICITATION ON PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: The solicitation by any individual,
organization, or association for monetary contributions in and on any street,
road, highway, or any other public way and place generally open to and used by
the public for travel in and upon by motor vehicles.
SOLICITOR: Any individual, organization or association who engages in
solicitation. (Ord. 782, 3-2-2004)
4-2A-2: PERMIT FOR CHARITABLE SOLICITATION
   In adherence with Illinois vehicle code regulations regarding highway
solicitations as stated in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1006, no
solicitor shall be allowed to engage in charitable solicitation from the
occupant of any motor vehicle in or on any public right of way within the city
of Lanark without first having applied for and obtained a valid public right of
way solicitation permit. The application for a permit to solicit in and on a
public right of way need only be made by the organization on behalf of all the
individuals who shall be representing and soliciting for the organization.
   No professional solicitor(s) shall be permitted to solicit in or on any
public right of way within the city of Lanark in the name of a charitable
organization. (Ord. 782, 3-2-2004)
4-2A-3: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS
   Organizations shall only be issued a permit to conduct public right of way
solicitations within the city of Lanark provided they comply with the
following:
   A.   State Registration: Every organization engaged in charitable
solicitation in or on any public right of way within the city of Lanark shall
be registered with the Illinois attorney general as a charitable organization
pursuant to the Illinois solicitation for charity act, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 460.
   B.   Statewide Activity: Every organization engaged in charitable
solicitation in and on any public right of way within the city of Lanark shall
be engaged in statewide fundraising activity.
   C.   Liability: Every organization engaged in charitable solicitation in and
on any public right of way within the city of Lanark shall be liable for all
injuries to any person or damage to any property that occurs during or as a
result of the solicitation that is casually related to an act of ordinary
negligence of the solicitor.
   D.   Insurance: Before engaging in any charitable solicitation in or on any
public right of way within the city of Lanark, the organization shall provide
proof of a certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company licensed to
conduct business in the state of Illinois. (Ord. 782, 3-2-2004)
4-2A-4: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS
   Organizations intending to solicit monetary contributions from occupants of
motor vehicles in and on public right of ways within the city of Lanark must
comply with and obey the following safety precautions:
   A.   Minimum Age: No person younger than sixteen (16) years of age may
actively engage or participate in charitable solicitation in and on any public
right of way within the city of Lanark.
   B.   Protective Clothing: Any person engaged in charitable solicitation in
and on any public right of way within the city of Lanark shall wear a high
visibility vest at all times while engaged in such solicitation.
   C.   Solicitation Locations: Any person engaged in the act of soliciting
shall position themselves in places and in a manner where they do not block,
impede, or disrupt the general flow of traffic. Charitable solicitations on the
public rights of way within the city of Lanark shall be permitted and
restricted to only occur at any of the following intersections:
      1.   Broad Street (Illinois Highway 73) and Carroll Street.
      2.   Broad Street (Illinois Highway 73) and Locust Street.
      3.   Broad Street (Illinois Highway 73) and Franklin Street.
      4.   Various intersections surrounding the Eastland High School campus
including side streets and driveways leading onto the campus off of Illinois
Route 52/64, Broad Street, and East Pearl Street.
   D.   Solicitation Hours: Soliciting from occupants of motor vehicles within
the city of Lanark shall only be permitted during daylight hours starting no
earlier than one hour after sunrise and stopping no later than one hour before
sunset.
   E.   Solicitation Approach: Soliciting shall be done in a safe, courteous,
and friendly manner. Solicitors may not tap or knock on the windows of a motor
vehicle in an attempt to solicit, nor otherwise block, obstruct or impede the
normal flow of traffic while in the act of soliciting. (Ord. 782, 3-2-2004)
4-2A-5: PERMIT ISSUES
   A.   Application: Every organization that intends to solicit charitable
contributions in or on the public rights of way within the city of Lanark
shall, prior to any solicitation, complete and file an application for a public
right of way solicitation permit with the city clerk of Lanark. Such
application shall be in writing on a form provided by the city of Lanark and
shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name of the organization intending to solicit for charity.
      2.   Full name, mailing address, and telephone number of the individual
person or persons, if any, who will supervise and have responsibility for the
solicitation activities.
      3.   The nature and purpose of the charitable solicitation.
      4.   The intended date(s) for the solicitation activities.
      5.   Registration number with attorney general's office, proof of
insurance, and other required eligibility information as listed in section
4-2A-3 of this article.
   B.   Fee: No fee shall be required for applying and obtaining a public right
of way solicitation permit.
   C.   Approval Or Denial: The Lanark city clerk, with the assistance of the
Lanark chief of police, shall approve or deny any application for a public
right of way solicitation permit.
   D.   Denial And Hearing: Any applicant denied approval of an application for
a public right of way solicitation permit may request to appear before the
Lanark city council and be heard for reconsideration.
   E.   Number Of Permits Limited: No more than one organization shall be
permitted to engage in charitable solicitation in and on the public rights of
way within the city of Lanark on any one day.
   F.   Charitable Restriction: A public right of way solicitation permit shall
only be issued for the solicitation and collection of monetary funds for
charitable purposes. No street vendor or peddler desiring to offer for sale
goods or services in or on the public rights of way of the city of Lanark shall
qualify for or be issued a public right of way solicitation permit. (Ord. 782,
3-2-2004)
4-2A-6: VIOLATIONS
   Any violations of an unlawful manner of any of the provisions of this
article shall be classified as a municipal offense against the city of Lanark.
Any solicitor violating any provision of this article shall, upon an
investigation and a plea of guilty or a conviction, be punishable by a fine not
to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 782, 3-2-2004)
ARTICLE 3
JUNK YARD
SECTION:
   
4-3-1: Definitions
   
4-3-2: Operation of a Junk Yard
   
4-3-3: License
   
4-3-4: Owners
   
4-3-5: Requirements
   
4-3-6: Annual License Fee
   
4-3-7: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS
JUN: As used in this Article shall be held to mean and include scrap and old
iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum, tin, lead or other base
metals, scrap lumber, old rope, old bags, rags, waste paper, paper clippings,
scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass, and empty bottles of
different kinds and sizes when the number of each kind or size is less than one
gross, any wrecked or dilapidated motor vehicle, engine or machinery received,
stored or held for more than ninety days, and all articles and things discarded
or no longer used as a manufactured article composed of or consisting of any
one or more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
JUNK DEALER: As used in this Article shall be held to mean and include every
person, firm partnership, or corporation that shall engage in the business of
buying, selling, or exchanging, or that shall collect, receive, store or hold
in possession for sale, or exchange, any of the things in and by this Section
defined as "junk" in the preceding paragraph.
JUNK YARD: As used in this Article shall be held to mean and include the
premises on which o junk dealer is engaged in the business of buying, selling,
storing or holding possession for sale, any of the things in and by this
Section defined as "junk".
4-3-2: OPERATION OF A JUNK YARD
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, conduct or operate a
junk yard within the corporate limits of the City without first obtaining a
license so to do as herein provided. A separate license shall be secured for
each junk yard located on noncontiguous lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of
land.
4-3-3: LICENSE
   Before any license under the provisions of this Article is issued, any
person desiring to operate a junk yard in the City shall first make a verified
application in writing to the City Clerk stating thereon the full name of the
applicant, the legal description of the premises where the junk yard is to be
located, the size and approximate location of each entrance thereto and exit
therefrom, whether or not the premises where the junk yard is to be located is
enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, nontransparent wall or fence of a
minimum height of seven feet (7') measured from ground level excepting the
entrances and exits.
4-3-4: OWNERS
   If the applicant is a firm or partnership, the names and residence addresses
of all the partners, and in case of a corporation, the names and residence
addresses of the president and secretary, shall be stated in the application.
4-3-5: REQUIREMENTS
   No license shall be granted if the applicant:
   A.   Is not a person of good character.
   B.   Has falsified an application for a license hereunder.
   C.   Has failed to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junk yard as specified in Section
4-3-3.
4-3-6: ANNUAL LICENSE FEE
   The annual license fee for each junk yard shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) payable in advance with the filing of the application for license.
   A.   The annual license under this Article is nonassignable and
nontransferable.
   B.   The licensee shall, at all times, allow the Mayor, members of the City
Council, police officers and health officers free access to any and all
portions of the junk yard for the purposes of inspection.
   C.   The Mayor may revoke the license of any licensee hereunder for
violating, failing or refusing to comply with the provisions of this Article.
4-3-7: PENALTY
   Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each and every offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
ARTICLE 4
HAWKERS
SECTION:
   
4-4-1: General Provisions
   
4-4-2: Registration
   
4-4-3: License
   
4-4-4: Revocation
   
4-4-5: Issuance of License
4-4-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pursue the occupation, business or
calling, within the City, of a street hawker or a street fakir without first
having obtained a license therefor, and any person violating the provisions of
this Article shall, upon the conviction thereof, be fined in the sum of not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each and every offense.
4-4-2: REGISTRATION
   Each and every applicant for a license under this Article shall, prior to
obtaining such license, make a certified statement in writing to the City Clerk
of the time said license is to continue, the nature of the occupation for which
license is sought, and the kind of articles, goods, wares, or merchandise
intended to be hawked, and he shall also state the value thereof, in the
aggregate or if so requested by said City Clerk, said applicant shall make a
statement of the value of each line of articles, goods or merchandise, so
intended to be hawked.
4-4-3: LICENSE
   The City Clerk, with the concurrence of the Mayor, is hereby authorized to
grant a license to any applicant who shall have fully complied with the
foregoing provisions of this Article, upon payment to the City Treasury as
license fee a sum not less than two dollars ($2.00) per day nor more than fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day for each and every day during the term for which the
license has been granted. The exact amount of license fee shall be at the
discretion of the Mayor and the City Clerk who shall, in ascertaining what said
license fee shall be, take into consideration the nature of the business of the
proposed licensee, the kind and value of the articles to be hawked. (1982 Code)
4-4-4: REVOCATION
   Any person who, having obtained a license under this Article through a
fraudulent statement of facts, or who shall sell or attempt to sell articles,
goods, or merchandise not enumerated or described in his application for such
license, shall forfeit his license fee to the City, and his license shall be
forfeited forthwith by the Mayor without notice to the holder of said license.
(1982 Code)
4-4-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE
   All licenses granted under the provisions of this Article shall be signed by
the Mayor, countersigned by the City Clerk, and sealed with the Corporate Seal
of the City. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 5
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
SECTION:
   
4-5-1: Purpose And Construction Of Article
   
4-5-2: Definitions
   
4-5-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
4-5-4: Liquor Control Board
   
4-5-5: Inspection Of Premises
   
4-5-6: License Required
   
4-5-7: Term Of License; Fee Prorated
   
4-5-8: Application
   
4-5-9: Classification; Amount Of Fee
   
4-5-10: Limitation On Number Issued
   
4-5-11: Reserved
   
4-5-12: Time Of Sale
   
4-5-13: Unlawful Sales
   
4-5-14: Conduct On Licensed Premises
   
4-5-15: Grounds For Suspension, Revocation, Appeals; Fines
   
4-5-16: Telephone Required
   
4-5-17: Location Of Premises; Minimum Distance From Certain Uses
   
4-5-18: Restrictions On Persons Of Nonage
   
4-5-19: Consumption In Public Places Prohibited
   
4-5-20: Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor In The City Park
   
4-5-21: Transporting In Motor Vehicles
4-5-1: PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION OF ARTICLE
   This article shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the city shall be protected and that temperance
in the consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be fostered by sound and
careful control and regulation of the sale of alcoholic beverages and alcoholic
liquor. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BAR: A relatively long, evenly shaped piece of some solid substance used to
separate the general area utilized by patrons or customers from the area
utilized by employees, that is elevated above floor level approximately thirty
two (32) to thirty six inches (36"), with or without seating for patrons, and
over which the licensee serves alcoholic beverages for consumption at the bar.
COMMISSIONER: For the purposes of this article, means the local liquor control
commissioner.
GROCERY OR GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORE: Any public place kept, used or maintained
for the principal business of selling at retail packaged food, produce, dairy
products, health, beauty, personal care, and related items, whose annual
earnings shall be derived in the majority from the sale of such items.
MANAGER: Any individual employed by any licensed place of business, provided
said individual possesses the same qualification required of the licensee.
MEAL: Food that is prepared and served on the licensed premises and excludes
the serving of snacks.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, where meals are actually and
regularly served, and such space being provided with adequate and sanitary
kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed therein a
sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable
food for its guests.
SPECIAL EVENT: An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious, or nonprofit organization. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER
   A.   The mayor shall be the local liquor control commissioner and shall be
charged with the administration of the appropriate provisions of this article
and such other provisions of this code relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted.
   B.   The local liquor control commissioner may adopt rules and regulations
for hearings to determine whether any license should be suspended, terminated
or revoked.
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner shall have all of the powers as
provided by the laws of this state.
   D.   The liquor commissioner may suspend or revoke the license of any
licensee for any violation of this article. The suspension of any license for
failure to conform with the building or fire codes of the city or the state of
Illinois shall continue so long as a violation of the building or fire code
exists. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-4: LIQUOR CONTROL BOARD
   A.   There is hereby created a liquor control board, the members of which
are appointed by the mayor.
   B.   The liquor control board shall hear violations of this article and
shall be advisory to the mayor, who is the commissioner. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES
   A.   The premises used by each licensee under this article and any adjacent
premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his agent, for the purpose
of the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, shall conform in all respects
to the applicable building and fire codes of the city heretofore or hereafter
adopted. The mayor, the liquor control board, or his delegates, may enter and
inspect the premises of each licensee under this article, including any
adjacent premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his agent, to
determine compliance with such building or fire codes.
   B.   The mayor, the chief of police, and all members of the police force,
may enter and inspect the premises of each licensee under this article or any
adjacent premises occupied or controlled by the licensee or his agent at all
reasonable times, and at all times when the premises is open to the public for
business purposes.
   C.   All licenses now in force or hereafter issued under this article shall
be subject to the reservation of the authority to enter and inspect, and
refusal by the licensee or his agent to permit such action shall constitute
sufficient grounds for the immediate suspension or revocation of the license by
the liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-6: LICENSE REQUIRED
   No person shall sell at retail or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor for beverage purposes without first having a valid license to do so,
issued in pursuance of the provisions of this article. No license shall be
issued without the approval of the commissioner. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-7: TERM OF LICENSE; FEE PRORATED
   Each license shall terminate on April 30 next following the date of
issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. Payment shall be due on the date of issuance of said license. The fee
for a seasonal liquor license shall be prorated for the number of months the
license is issued. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-8: APPLICATION
   A.   Application for a license or renewal of a license under this article
shall be made to the mayor on application blanks furnished by the city clerk.
Such application shall contain sufficient information to enable the mayor to
determine the eligibility of each applicant for such license. Each application
for renewal of the license issued under this article shall be filed with the
city clerk by April 1 of each year.
   B.   No license shall be issued to any applicant who is under the age of
twenty one (21) years or to any applicant whose manager is under the age of
twenty one (21) years. Any licensee who employs a person under the age of
twenty one (21) years as the manager of the premises subject to the license for
the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be subject to immediate suspension of his
license.
   C.   An owner, a manager, or a legally appointed agent of the business must
live within a thirty five (35) mile radius of Lanark. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-9: CLASSIFICATION; AMOUNT OF FEE
   A.   Classifications:
      1.   Class A License: A Class A license shall entitle the licensee to
sell at retail and in the original package container of beer and wine only,
seal not to be broken on the premises. A Class A license shall allow removal of
said packaged goods from the premises seal unbroken.
      2.   Class B License: A Class B license shall entitle the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquor in the original package, seal not to be broken on the
premises. A Class B license shall allow removal of said packaged goods from the
premises seal unbroken.
      3.   Class C License: A Class C license shall entitle the licensee to
sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. In addition, a Class C
license shall allow a person to purchase packaged goods and to remove said
packaged goods from the premises with the seal unbroken.
      4.   Class D License: A Class D license shall entitle the licensee to
sell beer and wine only for consumption on the premises. In addition, a Class D
license shall allow a person to purchase packaged goods and to remove said
packaged goods from the premises with the seal unbroken.
      5.   Class E License: A Class E license shall be a license extended only
to not for profit organizations with a license to be issued for a designated
period of time. It shall be issued for a set number of days with a separate
license fee for each day. A Class E license shall allow the not for profit
organization to sell alcoholic liquor for consumption on the location set forth
in the license and shall not allow any packaged goods sales or any removal of
liquor in its original package, seal broken or unbroken, from the location set
forth in the license. All liquor being sold under the provisions of this
subsection A5 shall be sold in nonglass containers.
      6.   Class F License: Reserved.
   B.   Yearly Fee: The yearly license fee must accompany the application for a
license. The yearly license fee for a Class A, a Class B or a Class D license
shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). The yearly license fee for a Class C
license shall be eight hundred fifty dollars ($850.00). The license fee for a
Class E license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day or part
thereof in which the license shall allow for sale of alcoholic liquor. Each
license shall terminate on April 30 following its issuance. Payments for Class
A, B and D licenses shall be as follows: two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
shall be due on or before May 1 of each year and two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) shall be due on or before November 1 of each year. Payments for Class
C licenses shall be as follows: four hundred twenty five dollars ($425.00) on
or before May 1 of each year and four hundred twenty five dollars ($425.00)
shall be due on or before November 1 of each year. (Ord. 936, 4-4-2017)
   C.   Fee Paid With Application: All such license fees shall be paid to the
Mayor, or City Clerk, at the time the application is made. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if
the license applied for is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the
General Corporate Fund. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-10: LIMITATION ON NUMBER ISSUED
   Not more than two (2) Class A licenses shall be issued, not more than two
(2) Class B licenses shall be issued, not more than two (2) Class C licenses
shall be issued and not more than two (2) Class D licenses shall be issued. A
Class E license shall set forth in the application for license the location of
the property in which the licensee intends to sell alcoholic liquor. The
license shall be limited to that particular location. In the event said
location should be a public street or a public area such as a park during a
celebration or a street blocked off for the purpose of a celebration, any
ordinances in conflict with said Class E license concerning consumption of
alcohol in public places shall not apply, and the licensee and customers of the
licensee shall not be deemed to have violated any such ordinances as long as
the actions of the licensee and customers of the licensee are consistent with
the provisions of the Class E license issued. (Ord. 936, 4-4-2017)
4-5-11: RESERVED
(Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-12: TIME OF SALE
   A.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail
any alcoholic liquor in the City, except:
Beginning each morning at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and on Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday throughout the day and ending at twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight of said day.
On each Friday and Saturday beginning at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and continuing
throughout said days past twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until two o'clock (2:
00) A.M. the following morning.
On Thanksgiving Eve or when New Year's Eve falls on a day other than Friday or
Saturday, beginning at six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on New Year's Eve and continuing
any person holding a Class C or D liquor license may request from the Mayor
permission to remain open until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day. The
Mayor may grant or deny the extended hours on a case by case basis at his or
her discretion.
It shall be illegal to sell liquor between each evening's closing time, either
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight or two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on a given day, and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the next morning.
The final sale shall be fifteen (15) minutes before closing time on all days
and all patrons shall be required to leave the premises by closing time. It
shall, however, be permissible for the owner of a Class C or D liquor license
to maintain the premises open to members of the public for other hours for
other lawful purposes including, but not limited to, the sale of food, either
to be taken away or to be eaten on the premises. Therefore, should any Class C
or D liquor license operator wish to operate a restaurant business at times
other than when it is permissible for sale of liquor, they shall be free to do
so. The right to maintain said restaurant business shall include Sundays,
holidays, late night hours and early morning hours during which time it is
illegal to sell liquor on the premises. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
   B.   Class C And Class D Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person
holding a Class C or D liquor license to sell liquor to any person on the
premises at any times other than set forth in the preceding subsections of this
section. All liquor sold by a Class C or D liquor license holder for
consumption on the premises shall be consumed during open hours. If any person
consumes liquor on the premises of a Class C or D liquor license holder at any
time in the evening later than closing time set forth in this section, or at
any time in the morning prior to the opening time as set forth in this section,
or at any other time not allowed by the hours set forth in this section, it
shall be a violation of the terms of this article. (Ord. 936, 4-4-2017)
4-5-13: UNLAWFUL SALES
   A.   Sale To Certain Persons Prohibited: No licensee under this article, or
any officer, associate member, representative, agent or employee of a licensee,
shall sell, give, supply or deliver or permit any alcoholic liquor to be sold,
supplied or given to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, nor to
any intoxicated person or to any person known by him to be in need of mental
treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Employment Of Underage Persons: It shall be unlawful for any licensee
under this article, or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to tend bar and/or to draw, pour, or mix, or sell any
alcoholic liquor from behind the bar or primary place where alcoholic liquor or
beverages are dispensed, in any licensed premises; unless that person has a
BASSET card and is supervised by someone over the age of twenty one (21) years;
provided that the provision of this section shall not be construed to prevent
persons who are at least eighteen (18) years of age and employed as waiters or
waitresses from serving or cashiers in retail stores from selling alcoholic
liquor on licensed retail premises in the ordinary course of such employment.
   C.   Duty Of Licensee To Demand Proof Of Age: If a licensee or his agent or
employee believes or has reason to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited because of the nonage of the prospective recipient, he
shall, before making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of
positive identification, containing proof of age. Acceptable IDs include the
following:
      1.   A valid current driver's license or photo ID card issued by the
Illinois Secretary of State's Office or any other state;
      2.   A valid armed forces ID;
      3.   A valid U.S. passport or foreign passport (with U.S. travel visa)
containing the holder's photograph. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-14: CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES
   A.   Every licensee hereunder shall at all times keep a good and orderly
house and it shall be unlawful for any such licensee to keep a noisy,
disorderly and ill governed house in any place where such licensee is doing
business under such license.
   B.   The following conduct is prohibited on licensed premises:
      1.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law.
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling on or of the
breast or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the areolas or genitals.
      4.   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her areolas
or genitals.
      5.   The displaying of obscene films or pictures as prohibited by 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20.
      6.   The permitting or allowing of any prostitution, soliciting for
prostitution, or other acts of prostitution. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-15: GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, APPEALS; FINES
   A.   The commissioner may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
article for any one of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation of the laws of the United States, the laws of this state
or any of the ordinances of the city where such violations relate to the
operation of a licensed premises;
      2.   Knowingly permitting without protest, any violation of this article,
any disorderly practices upon the premises or violations of any law or
ordinance, whether upon the control premises or the service premises, where the
licensee is licensed to operate under this article;
      3.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for the license;
      4.   Failure to obtain and keep current at all times at least the minimum
amount of dramshop liability insurance required by section 6-38;
      5.   Failure to comply with any rules and regulations promulgated by the
commissioner;
      6.   Failure to pay a fine imposed by the commissioner or costs imposed
by this section within twenty one (21) days of notice of such costs.
In lieu of or in addition to the suspension or revocation of a license, the
commissioner may impose a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such violation.
   B.   If the licensee appeals to the state liquor control commission of
decisions, orders or actions of the commissioner, and the decision of the
commissioner adverse to a licensee being upheld or upon failure of a licensee
to appeal within the appeal period, the licensee shall be responsible for the
payment of all costs borne by the city in relation to bringing the hearing,
including, but not limited to, initial court reporter cost and hourly fees,
witness and mileage fees. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-16: TELEPHONE REQUIRED
   All liquor licensees shall maintain a telephone in a serviceable condition
for the exclusive use of the manager, bartender or responsible employee. Such
telephone shall be located behind the bar or liquor service area. (Ord. 911,
10-20-2015)
4-5-17: LOCATION OF PREMISES; MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM CERTAIN USES
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for the
aged or indigent persons, or for veterans.
   The provisions of this section restricting area shall not apply to special
event licenses. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-18: RESTRICTIONS ON PERSONS OF NONAGE
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall consume,
purchase, or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor. No person under the age of
twenty one (21) years shall accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic
liquor.
   B.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years are authorized to be on
the premises with a class A or B license for purposes other than the purchase
or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall loiter or remain
in or around any premises with a class C license, unless:
      1.   Accompanied by his parent or guardian; or
      2.   Being the age of sixteen (16) years or older and employed by the
licensee in any employment that does not involve the sale, solicitation for
sale, delivery or distribution of alcoholic liquor; or
      3.   The facility is a restaurant classified as a category I or category
II food service facility by the Carroll County health department.
   D.   Persons under the age of twenty one (21) years may not sit at the "bar"
(as defined herein) or primary place where alcoholic liquor or beverages are
dispensed.
   E.   No person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification card; use
the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   F.   The possession and dispensing, or consumption, by a person under twenty
one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony is not prohibited by this section. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-19: CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess in any open
container any alcoholic liquor in the public parks, streets, municipal
buildings, alleys or highways or other places of public assemblage, except by
special event license. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-20: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN THE CITY PARK
   A.   Alcoholic liquor may only be present or consumed in the city park or
parks when a special permit is issued by the city council allowing such
consumption or allowing said liquor to be present in the city park.
   B.   An applicant wishing to have liquor in the city park shall file a
written application with the city clerk requesting the date and time said
consumption will take place, and generally describing the type of event in
which the consumption will take place.
   C.   The city council shall consider said written application at a regularly
scheduled or specially called council meeting and may grant or deny the said
application. In determining whether or not to grant or deny said permit, the
city council shall consider the following factors:
      1.   Whether it will be necessary for a police officer to be present. In
the event the city council feels a police officer should be present, the cost
of his salary may be taxed as a fee for the permit.
      2.   The city may require evidence of a dramshop insurance or other
insurance which lists the city as a party insured or otherwise require
arrangements to hold the city harmless from any liability.
      3.   The city may require a bond or payment of a cash fee to cover any
possible cleanup or damage that might take place as a result of issuing said
permit.
      4.   The city shall set specific hours for the use of said permit.
   D.   The city may require a fee for the issuance of said permit, said fee
shall not exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00). Said fee may reflect the
amount the city feels it shall cost the city to police said permit; however,
the city shall not be limited in the amount of the fee by this factor.
   E.   If, during the period in which the permit is in effect, it becomes
apparent to the mayor or chief of police that the noise or other public
disturbance caused by parties using said permit is disruptive to the general
peace and quiet of the community, the mayor and/or chief of police may
terminate the permit immediately and all alcoholic beverages shall then be
removed from the park within thirty (30) minutes.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall give any party a right to the issuance of
said permit, rather, said permit shall be issued solely in the discretion of
the city council if the city council determines it to be in the best interest
of the community to issue said permit. (Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
4-5-21: TRANSPORTING IN MOTOR VEHICLES
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry or possess or
have any alcoholic liquor in or upon or about the passenger area of any motor
vehicle, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini-motor home as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of
any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in
or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver
shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this section.
For the purposes of this section, a limousine is a motor vehicle of the first
division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing
window used in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated by an
individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-104.
   C.   The exemption applicable to chartered buses under subsection B of this
section does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school purposes.
(Ord. 911, 10-20-2015)
ARTICLE 6
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
   
4-6-1: Cable Communications Regulatory Ordinance Adopted
   
4-6-2: Cable Television Franchise Agreement Adopted
   
4-6-3: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Ordinance Adopted
   
4-6-4: Cable And Video Customer Protection Law Adopted
4-6-1: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY ORDINANCE ADOPTED
   The city officials have determined that it is in the best interest of the
city to adopt a cable communications regulatory ordinance, that may be amended
from time to time. A copy of the cable communications regulatory ordinance, and
all amendments thereto, is on file in the clerk's office. (Ord. 730, 10-5-1999)
4-6-2: CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE AGREEMENT ADOPTED
   The city officials have determined that it is in the best interest of the
city to adopt a cable television franchise agreement, that may be amended from
time to time. A copy of the cable television franchise agreement, and all
amendments thereto, is on file in the clerk's office. (Ord. 731, 10-5-1999;
amd. Ord. 733, 10-19-1999)
4-6-3: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE ORDINANCE ADOPTED
   The city officials have determined that it is in the best interest of the
city to adopt a cable/video service provider fee ordinance that may be amended
from time to time. A copy of the cable/video service provider fee ordinance,
and all amendments thereto, is on file in the clerk's office. (Ord. 873, 12-11-
2012)
4-6-4: CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW ADOPTED
   The city officials have determined that it is in the best interest of the
city to adopt a cable and video customer protection law ordinance that may be
amended from time to time. A copy of the cable and video customer protection
law ordinance, and all amendments thereto, is on file in the clerk's office.
(Ord. 874, 12-11-2012)
ARTICLE 7
REGULATION OF MECHANICAL DEVICES
SECTION:
   
4-7-1: No License Required; Exception
   
4-7-2: Gambling Prohibited
4-7-1: NO LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION
   Any owner, licensee, manager, office or agent of a place of public resort,
may keep and maintain for gain or profit any music box, jukebox, shuffleboard
courts, bowling machines, pinball machines, ski ball machine, baseball machine,
basketball machine, billiard table, pool table or any billiard or pool type
device, electronic gaming device or game of any form or fashion, or similar
type of game or machine in which any ball, sphere, missile, arm, crane,
appliance rod or plunger is struck, released, impelled, controlled or
manipulated directly or indirectly or which involves any type of electronic
game or other electronic manipulation for the purpose of amusement or test of
skill, without license.
   A.   Exception: Video gaming terminals require a license as set forth in
article 9 of this chapter. (Ord. 917, 10-20-2015)
4-7-2: GAMBLING PROHIBITED
   Except as set forth in article 9 of this chapter, the wagering of monies,
goods or merchandise for gambling upon the outcome of such test or skill or
amusement or manipulation of such game, machine or device, is expressly
prohibited, and shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 917, 10-20-
2015)
ARTICLE 8
REGULATION OF CARNIVALS AND AMUSEMENT RIDES
SECTION:
   
4-8-1: Definitions
   
4-8-2: Permit Required
   
4-8-3: Application For Permit
   
4-8-4: Conditions Of Permit
   
4-8-5: Penalty
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS
AMUSEMENT ATTRACTION: An enclosed structure, trailer, vehicle or tent,
including electrical equipment, which is an integral part of such structure,
trailer, vehicle or tent, through which people walk, without aid of a moving
device, that provides amusement, thrills or excitement.
AMUSEMENT RIDE: Any mechanical device or combination of devices, including
electrical equipment, which is an integral part of the device or devices, which
carries passengers, along, around or over a fixed or restricted course for the
primary purpose of giving its passengers amusement, thrills or excitement; any
slide over twenty feet (20') in height; any bungee cord or similar elastic
device.
CARNIVAL: An enterprise which offers amusement or entertainment to the public
by means of one or more amusement attractions, amusement rides or carnival
games.
CARNIVAL GAME: Any game or gaming device for the purpose of amusement or test
of skill for which a fee is charged and prizes, monies, goods or merchandise
are provided to contestants depending on the outcome. (Ord. 699, 4-15-1997)
4-8-2: PERMIT REQUIRED
   No amusement ride, amusement attraction or carnival game shall operate
within the city without a permit having been issued to the operator of same.
(Ord. 699, 4-15-1997)
4-8-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT
   Application for permit to operate an amusement ride, amusement attraction or
carnival game within the city shall be made to the city clerk no later than
five (5) business days prior to the first day of operation.
   The application shall state the name, address and telephone number of the
owner or owners or the president, chairman, convener, or official of a not for
profit organization, civic group, or school group.
   Each application must be accompanied by the following:
   A.   Local not for profit organization, civic group, or school group that is
acting as the operator of such amusement ride, amusement attraction or carnival
game:
      1.   Operator shall provide proof of liability insurance policies in
force.
      2.   Application fee: Waived.
   B.   For profit owners of such amusement ride, amusement attraction or
carnival game who supply their own employees to operate:
      1.   Permit issued to owner by director of the state of Illinois
department of labor under the carnival and amusement rides safety act for each
amusement ride or amusement attraction.
      2.   Owner shall provide proof of liability insurance policies in force
in amounts not less than required by the state under the carnival and amusement
rides safety act.
      3.    Name and date of birth of each employee who will be present during
the event, regardless of their job duties.
      4.   Application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) payable at time
application is made. (Ord. 918, 10-20-2015)
4-8-4: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT
   Any permit issued under this article shall be subject to the following terms
and conditions:
   A.   Any amusement ride, amusement attraction or carnival game permitted
hereunder shall be open to reasonable inspection by the city police department
during hours of operation.
   B.   The rules for all carnival games shall be clearly posted.
   C.   Wagering of money upon the outcome of any carnival game is expressly
prohibited and shall be grounds for revocation of said permit. (Ord. 699, 4-15-
1997)
4-8-5: PENALTY
   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to
revocation of permit and/or a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense,
every day that such violation shall continue, shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. (Ord. 699, 4-15-1997)
ARTICLE 9
VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
SECTION:
   
4-9-1: License Required
   
4-9-2: License Fees
   
4-9-3: Application
   
4-9-4: Issuance
   
4-9-5: Posting
   
4-9-6: Revocation, Suspension And Fines
   
4-9-7: Transfer Prohibited
4-9-1: LICENSE REQUIRED
   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in any
other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal as defined in the video gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/
1 et seq., at any premises within the city of Lanark without first having
obtained a license valid in that calendar year. The license provided for in
this article shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals. A
separate license shall be required for each video gaming terminal. Any person,
corporation, association or entity convicted of violating this section shall be
fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 878, 7-16-2013)
4-9-2: LICENSE FEES
   The applicant for a license under this article shall pay the city treasurer,
prior to filing the application, a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for the first video gaming terminal and fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
additional video gaming terminal per license year. If the license is denied,
the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. (Ord. 878, 7-16-2013)
4-9-3: APPLICATION
   An application for a license required by this article shall be made in
writing to the city clerk and shall set forth the following:
   A    The name of the individual, partnership, corporation, association or
other entity applying for the license;
   B.   The residence, phone number and driver's license number of the
applicant or partners; or, if a corporation, association or other entity, the
residence, phone numbers and driver's license number of the principal officers;
   C.   The location for which the license is requested;
   D.   A true and accurate photocopy of the state of Illinois license granted
to the applicant under the video gaming act for the applicable premises; and
   E.   Whether the applicant, his or her partners or the principal officers of
the corporation, association or other entity have been convicted of a criminal
offense or ordinance violation (other than traffic or parking offenses) in any
jurisdiction and, if so, a list of such convictions with date and prosecuting
jurisdiction. (Ord. 878, 7-16-2013)
4-9-4: ISSUANCE
   The city clerk shall issue the license requested under this article unless
he or she shall find:
   A.   That the applicant is under the age of twenty one (21).
   B.   That the applicant or any principal officer therein has held a license
under this article or had an interest therein that was revoked for cause.
   C.   That the applicant or any principal officer therein has furnished false
or misleading information on the application. (Ord. 878, 7-16-2013)
4-9-5: POSTING
   Every license issued under this article shall, at all times during the
period for which it is effective, be posted in a conspicuous place at or near
the principal entrance to the premises for which the license is issued. (Ord.
878, 7-16-2013)
4-9-6: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION AND FINES
   A.   Any license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked, suspended
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days and/or imposed a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) by the mayor or his or her designee if
the city mayor or his or her designee shall find after a hearing:
      1.   That the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
article, the laws of the state, or ordinances of the city at the licensed
location.
      2.   That the licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for a license
required by this article or any investigation into any such application.
   B.   The licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his agents, servants
and employees in the operation of any licensed establishment. Prior to holding
a hearing concerning the question of whether a license issued pursuant to this
article shall be revoked or suspended, the mayor or his or her designee shall
give at least ten (10) days' written notice to the licensee setting forth the
alleged violations specifically. The licensee shall be given a reasonable
chance to present evidence at such hearing and cross examine witnesses. (Ord.
878, 7-16-2013)
4-9-7: TRANSFER PROHIBITED
   A license issued pursuant to this article may not be transferred, sold or
assigned to any other person, corporation, association or other entity; nor
shall such license be transferred to any location other than that listed on the
application. (Ord. 878, 7-16-2013)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1
ANIMALS
SECTION:
   
5-1-1: Definitions
   
5-1-2: Reserved
   
5-1-3: Supervision, Restraint Or Enclosure Required For Animals/Pets
   
5-1-4: Removal Of Dog Defecation
   
5-1-5: Animals/Pets Prohibited From City Park And Cemetery Grounds
   
5-1-6: Animals Running At Large Prohibited
   
5-1-7: Animals Causing Nuisance Prohibited
   
5-1-8: Lost Or Stray Domesticated Animals
   
5-1-9: Procedure For Animal Bites
   
5-1-10: Impoundment; Reclamation Of Animals
   
5-1-11: Rabies Control
   
5-1-12: Restrictions On Keeping Livestock Within City Limits
   
5-1-13: Cruelty To Animals
   
5-1-14: Poisoning Or Killing Animals Within City Limits
   
5-1-15: No Trapping Of Domesticated Animals Within City
   
5-1-16: Reserved
   
5-1-17: Interference With Authorized Persons Prohibited
   
5-1-18: Penalty
   
5-1-19: Feeding Of Stray/Feral Animals Is Prohibited
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS
ANIMAL: Any type of animal or fowl, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, and shall include, but shall not be limited to, all members of the
canine family, dogs, pet foxes, wolves and all members of the cat family.
DANGEROUS: Any animal which, when unprovoked, commits in an aggressive manner
an attack on any person.
DOMESTIC: Animals such as dogs, cats, rabbits, poultry, horses, ponies,
donkeys, mules, cattle, swine, sheep or goats.
OWNER: Anyone who has a right of property in an animal, routinely feeds and
keeps an animal, has an animal in his or her care, acts as a custodian of an
animal or knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about the premises
occupied by such person.
STRAY: Any animal that does not appear, after reasonable inquiry, to have any
ascertainable owner.
VICIOUS: Any animal that by its behavior and disposition constitutes a serious
physical threat, without provocation, to assault and attack, bite and inflict
damage which may cause injury or death to a domestic animal or a human being,
or which may otherwise endanger the safety of any human being or domesticated
animal. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-2: RESERVED
(Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-3: SUPERVISION, RESTRAINT OR ENCLOSURE REQUIRED FOR ANIMALS/PETS
   No owner of any animals/pets kept or allowed within the corporate limits of
the City of Lanark shall permit any animals/pets to leave the premises of the
owner at any time unless the animals/pets are under competent supervision,
securely restrained on a leash or confined within an enclosed pen or vehicle.
(Ord. 972, 12-3-2019)
5-1-4: REMOVAL OF DOG DEFECATION
   An owner, keeper or person having custody of any dog shall not permit the
dog to defecate on any public property such as school grounds, public streets,
alleys, sidewalks, tree banks, parkways or any other public grounds or on any
private property within the city, other than the premises of the owner, keeper
or person having custody of the dog, unless the defecation is removed
immediately. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-5: ANIMAL/PETS PROHIBITED FROM CITY PARK AND CEMETERY GROUNDS
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper or person having custody of
animals/pets to exercise or let roam said animals/pets at any time on the
public grounds of the Lanark city park or the Lanark city cemetery. Guide dogs
for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the physically handicapped
and police owned dogs are exempt from the regulation of this section. (Ord.
972, 12-3-2019)
5-1-6: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED
   A.   All pets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for an owner, keeper or person having custody
of all pets to permit such animal to run at large at any time within the
corporate limits of the City of Lanark. All pets which go or roam upon any
public street, sidewalk, alley, other public way, or upon any private property
other than that of the owner of the pet shall be deemed to be running at large,
unless such pet is under competent supervision, is firmly secured and
restrained on a leash or confined within an enclosed pen or vehicle.
      2.   Any pet found running at large upon a street, sidewalk, alley, or
other public way, or upon private property other than that of the owner of such
pet is hereby declared a nuisance and may be impounded by a police officer or
animal control officer; provided, however, any vicious pet which has bitten a
human being and cannot be safely captured may be slain by a police officer or
animal control officer.
      3.   If a pet is on an owner's property, it is considered to be running
at large if it is not contained on the property by means of a fence, chain,
leash, competent supervision, or other visible means of restraint sufficient to
protect persons or animals not on that property.
      4.   The owner, keeper or person having custody of a pet which is running
at large may be fined as provided by the penalty provisions of this article,
and the pet shall be handled as deemed necessary by law enforcement officials.
In addition to such fines, penalties and fees, the owner, possessor, or keeper
of the pet shall also be responsible for applicable lodging fees, impoundment
fees and other such fees necessarily incurred.
   B.   Livestock And Poultry: No person shall permit any cattle, horses,
swine, sheep, goats or poultry to run at large within the corporate limits of
the city of Lanark. No person shall picket or tie any such animal in any of the
streets of the city for the purpose of grazing or feeding. Any such animal
running at large or improperly tied shall be impounded by an animal control
officer; provided, however, any vicious animal which has bitten a human being
and cannot be captured may be slain by a police officer or animal control
officer. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006; amd. Ord. 972, 12-3-2019)
5-1-7: ANIMALS CAUSING NUISANCE PROHIBITED
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor any animal
within the corporate limits of the city of Lanark that creates frequent or
habitual annoyance and disturbance so as to disturb the peace of other
individuals in a neighborhood by:
      1.   Charging passing vehicles or molesting pedestrians walking by.
      2.   Attacking or threatening other animals.
      3.   Causing the spread of garbage or damaging public or private
property.
      4.   Prolonged loud barking, whining, howling, bawling, yelping,
screeching, or making other loud vocal sounds common to its species in an
excessive and continuous manner.
   B.   An owner who knowingly permits an animal to violate such nuisance
provisions listed above will be subjected to a fine for a first such violation
as provided in the penalty section of this article. Subsequent and continued
violations may subject the owner to impoundment of the animal by a police
officer, an animal control officer or other law enforcement official having the
authority to impound such an animal. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-8: LOST OR STRAY DOMESTICATED ANIMALS
   A.   Any person finding a lost or stray domesticated animal within the city
of Lanark is to notify a police officer or animal control officer within forty
eight (48) hours. At the discretion and with the permission of law enforcement
authorities, the animal may be kept by the finder and a "found" report left
with enforcement authorities in order to enable the finder the opportunity to
locate and return the animal to its rightful owner.
   B.   Upon demand by law enforcement officials, any "found" animal must be
surrendered to enforcement authorities for holding and to make disposition of.
   C.   Any person finding an animal is obligated to comply with all rules and
regulations of this article pertaining to the care and treatment of animals
while the animal remains in his or her custody awaiting a return to its actual
owner.
   D.   The finder, other than an enforcement official or animal shelter
facility, will be considered the "found" animal's new owner if a "found" animal
happens to remain in the finder's custody for thirty (30) continuous days
without being reclaimed. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-9: PROCEDURE FOR ANIMAL BITES
   A.   The person responsible for any animal which has bitten a person or
another animal must report the incident to the county health department who
shall have the animal quarantined or impounded for a period of ten (10) days
with the place of confinement to be at the discretion of the county health
department.
   B.   An animal shall be immediately examined after it has bitten a person or
another animal, and again each day for a period of ten (10) days by a licensed
veterinarian. If at the end of the ten (10) day period a licensed veterinarian
is convinced the animal is free of rabies, he/she shall order the animal
released from quarantine or the pound, as the case may be.
   C.   During the quarantine period, the owner of the animal being quarantined
must provide a current rabies vaccination certificate for the animal. If proof
of vaccination cannot be supplied, the animal will be vaccinated by a
veterinarian at the owner's expense before release. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-10: IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAMATION OF ANIMALS
   A.   At large animals, nuisance animals, dangerous or vicious animals, and
animals that have attacked or bitten persons or other animals shall be
impounded. Bruising or scratching of a person or animal is evidence of an
attack. Such animals may be taken by law enforcement officials and impounded in
an animal control or shelter facility.
   B.   Professionally trained guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired,
support dogs for assisting the physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or
police owned dogs are exempt from this section; provided, an attack or injury
to a person occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected.
   C.   Animals found in cruel, abusive or neglectful situations; animals bred,
trained and kept for the purpose of animal fighting; or animals found confined
or abandoned on private property may be promptly seized if no immediate contact
with a responsible person can be made, provided, however that law enforcement
authorities leave written notice stating the location of the animal and the
reason for impoundment.
   D.   In lieu of impounding an animal which may be impounded, law enforcement
authorities may issue to a known owner or keeper of such animal a notice of
ordinance violation and ticket and fine the owner or keeper of such animal
according to the penalty section of this article.
   E.   An owner or keeper reclaiming an impounded animal from a facility that
is not under the jurisdiction of the City of Lanark shall pay all costs
associated with the impoundment of the animal at that facility.
   F.   The owner or keeper of an animal reclaiming such animal that has been
impounded shall pay to the City Clerk of Lanark a ten dollar ($10.00) fee for
costs incurred by the City in transporting the animal to a place of
impoundment. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-11: RABIES CONTROL
   A.   Rabies Vaccination Required: As required by the Rabies Control Law of
the State of Illinois, every owner of a dog four (4) months or more of age
shall be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Every dog shall
have a second rabies vaccination within one year of the first.
   B.   Duties Of The Owner Of A Suspect Animal: It is unlawful for any person
who owns or has custody of an animal suspected to be infected with or
exhibiting clinical signs of rabies to allow such animal to leave the owner's
premises, except for the purpose of transporting the animal to an animal
shelter or to a licensed veterinarian.
   C.   Disposition Of Exposed Animals: Any animal that has been bitten by an
animal known to have rabies shall be confined within an enclosure or kept
muzzled and restrained by leash for a period of time as determined by a
licensed veterinarian for observation or else destroyed.
   D.   Destroying Suspected Rabid Animal: No person other than a law
enforcement authority or a veterinarian shall kill or cause to be killed any
animal suspected of being rabid except in cases of immediate self-protection.
(Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-12: RESTRICTIONS ON KEEPING LIVESTOCK WITHIN CITY LIMITS
   A.   Prohibited: Except as provided in subsections B, C and E of this
section, it shall be deemed a nuisance and unlawful to keep or maintain within
the corporate limits of the City any livestock including, but not limited to,
swine, cattle, sheep, goats, horses, mules, poultry, bees and animals raised
for furbearing purposes.
   B.   Minimum Parcel Size: The owners of a parcel of land consisting of not
less than one and one-half (1 1/2) acres may keep or maintain horses, mules,
cattle, sheep or goats provided the animals do not disturb or annoy the
residents within close proximity to the premises where the animals are kept,
and also provided that no offensive odors due to the presence of the animals
are emitted from the premises causing injury, discomfort or annoyance to the
residents within close proximity to the premises where the animals are kept.
   C.   Less Than Minimum Parcel Size: If at the time this article is adopted
by the City Council, any person, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity
owning a parcel of land of less than one and one-half (1 1/2) acres has any of
the animals referenced in subsection A of this section, then no new or
additional animals prohibited by subsection A of this section shall be
permitted to be kept or maintained on said premises.
   D.   Exemptions: Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the presence
of animals which are part of a carnival, a circus, a live animal nativity scene
or other event sponsored by a not for profit organization or the City.
   E.   Chickens: Definitions as used in this section:
      COOP: Shall mean and include a coop, building, pen or other enclosure
with or without an enclosed pen or chicken yard that is designed, constructed
and maintained to confine chickens within the coop and to prevent access by
predators.
      KEEP: To maintain or feed such livestock on premises, confined or
otherwise, within the City limits for a period exceeding twenty four (24)
hours.
      LAYING CHICKEN: Any domesticated egg laying chicken and shall exclude all
roosters.
      1.   License To Keep Chickens:
         a.   No person shall keep or maintain chickens anywhere within the
City of Lanark except pursuant to a license issued by the City under the terms
and conditions of this subsection E.
         b.   Applications to keep laying chickens shall be submitted on a form
provided by the Zoning Officer, and shall include an accurate drawing of the
proposed location of the coop and nature of the facilities.
         c.   Each application shall be accompanied by an initial permit fee of
twenty dollars ($20.00) to have a coop on your property and a license fee in
the amount of ten dollars ($10.00) to keep chickens.
         d.   The term of each license shall begin on May 1 and terminate on
April 30 next following its issuance.
         e.   If a license issued under the terms of this subsection E is not
renewed, or is terminated, the property owner where the coop is located shall
remove all chickens.
         f.   Any license issued hereunder is personal to the applicant and may
not be assigned or transferred. Only the record owner of the property may apply
for a license.
         g.   No more than one license shall be issued per property.
         h.   The owner of the premises consents to the entry of City
officials, employees or authorized agents onto the property for the purpose of
an initial inspection of the facilities and determining compliance with this
subsection E. Subsequent inspections of the facilities may be made in the case
of violations or nuisance reports.
      2.   Restrictions:
         a.   A maximum of six (6) shall be permitted on any property
containing one single-family detached dwelling unit.
         b.   Chickens shall at all times be confined to a coop complying with
the requirements of this article and constructed only upon receipt of a license
from the City of Lanark.
         c.   Every person maintaining a coop used for keeping chickens shall
keep and maintain the coop and such area and facilities in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
         d.   All feed for chickens must be kept in containers that are rodent-
proof.
         e.   All chickens must be kept, housed and maintained so as not to
cause a public or private nuisance from odor, litter, droppings, feather or
other waste, excessive noise, or pests or rodents attracted by the chickens.
         f.   Slaughtering is not permitted, except within an enclosed building
in a manner not reasonably visible or audible to persons on adjacent property.
      3.   Housing:
         a.   All chickens shall be housed in a coop of sufficient size and
strength to confine the fowl to the licensee's property.
         b.   A license shall be obtained from the City prior to the
construction of a coop. The applicant shall provide an accurate drawing of all
proposed facilities.
         c.   The chicken coop shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) square
feet. The coop shall be no more than eight feet (8') high and must be top
covered to prevent access by predators. The coop must provide a minimum four
(4) square feet of living area for each chicken.
         d.   Any coop shall be at least ten feet (10') from any property line
and at least twenty feet (20') from any neighboring house, apartment or
business. Any coop shall also be at least twenty feet (20') from any
neighboring patio, balcony, swimming pool, gazebo, garden, deck, porch,
courtyard, fire pit, or other such outdoor living space.
         e.   No coop shall be located in the front yard facing a public street
of any property and shall be located in a manner so that no chickens are
visible from a public street to the greatest extent possible.
      4.   Enforcement:
         a.   Violation of this subsection E may result in revocation of the
license issued hereunder and the imposition of fines as provided in section 5-
1-18 of this article.
         b.   Any license revoked for violations of this subsection E shall not
be renewed. (Ord. 922, 5-17-2016)
5-1-13: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
   A.   Animal Fights: It shall be unlawful for any person to incite, train to
fight (other than a dog for crime prevention) or set any animal to fighting
another animal or to incite combat between animals and humans in the City of
Lanark.
   B.   Cruelty To And Endangering Of Animals: No person shall beat, ill treat,
torment or abuse any animal or bird. No person shall throw or deposit any
poisonous substance on any exposed or private place where it may endanger any
animal. No person shall provoke any animal to bark or bite by taunting it.
   C.   Inhumane Treatment: No person shall tie, confine or otherwise restrain
any animal or bird in such a manner as to constitute cruel or inhumane
treatment.
   D.   Abandonment: It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to abandon an
animal where it may become a public charge or may suffer injury or sickness due
to exposure.
   E.   Impoundment Procedure: An animal control officer (ACO) or his or her
duly authorized representative is authorized to remove from any premises and
impound any animal or bird on which cruel treatment is being inflicted as
listed in subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-14: POISONING OR KILLING ANIMALS WITHIN CITY LIMITS
   No person shall molest, poison, shoot or kill any bird, squirrel or other
animal or rob the nest of any bird within the corporate limits of the City of
Lanark, unless such animal is the property of such person. This section shall
not apply to sparrows, pigeons, starlings, rodents or other animals considered
by the City Council to be pests. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-15: NO TRAPPING OF DOMESTICATED ANIMALS WITHIN CITY
   No person, except the Animal Control Officer or his or her designated
representative, shall set a trap or cause a trap to be set to entrap any
domesticated animal upon such person's property or any other place within the
boundaries of the City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Networking Illinois
Preventers of Cat Overpopulation NIPCO, LTD.) shall be authorized to set traps
or cause traps to be set to entrap any community/feral cats within the
boundaries of the City. All traps used by NIPCO, LTD. shall be clearly marked
or labeled with "Networking Illinois Preventers of Cat overpopulation", or
'NIPCO, LTD." Or their logo. I he City may revoke this authorization at any
time. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006; amd. Ord. 1006, 9-17-2024)
5-1-16: RESERVED
(Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-17: INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORIZED PERSONS PROHIBITED
   No person shall forcibly assault, resist, oppose, obstruct, prevent, impede
or interfere with a police officer, animal control officer or other law
enforcement official while engaged in the performance of any duty in accordance
with the provisions of this article. Any person or persons so hindering law
enforcement authorities shall be subject to a penalty as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 814, 6-6-2006)
5-1-18: PENALTY
   A.   Any person who violates a provision of this article may be subject to a
fine in one of the following dollar amounts:
      1.   First offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Second offense: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Third and subsequent offenses: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Each offense shall be considered a separate offense and subject to a
fine.
   C.   Each twenty four (24) hour period that a violation occurs will be
considered a separate offense and can be cited as such.
   D.   The owner or person having custody of an animal/pet that chases,
threatens and then bites another person without the animal/pet being provoked
in any manner, shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
after the person having been bitten reports the biting incident to a law
enforcement official and signs a formal complaint.
   E.   Such fine must be paid to the Lanark City Clerk within ten (10) days of
the date on which the offense occurred. In the event the fine is paid within
said ten (10) day period, no formal charge will be filed in the Circuit Clerk's
Office of Carroll County, Illinois, and the matter shall be considered to be
terminated. In the event said fine is not paid within ten (10) days, a formal
charge shall be filed and the fine shall be determined as provided by the
general provisions of the ordinances of the City. (Ord. 814, 6-6-2006; amd.
Ord. 972, 12-3-2019)
5-1-19: FEEDING OF STRAY/FERAL ANIMALS IS PROHIBITED
   Feeding of stray/feral animals is prohibited except as provided under the
terms of this chapter. Feeding of birds and/or squirrels must be fed from a
feeder at least three and one-half (3.5) feet above the ground. Bird seed and
animal feed shall not be permitted to be placed on the ground and shall be
considered a violation of the terms of this provision. (Ord. 972, 12-3-2019)
ARTICLE 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
   
5-2-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
   
5-2-2: Nuisance Defined, Generally
   
5-2-3: Nuisances Not Enumerated Herein
   
5-2-4: Enumeration Not Exclusive
   
5-2-5: Duty Of City Officers To Investigate; Power Of Entry
   
5-2-6: Notice To Proper Officials
   
5-2-7: Foul Odors, Filth
   
5-2-8: Rubbish, Dry Grass
   
5-2-9: Petroleum Products, Explosives And Toxic Substances
   
5-2-10: Unsafe And Blighted Buildings
   
5-2-11: Abandoned Refrigerators
   
5-2-12: Dust, Cinders
   
5-2-13: Scaffolding, Ladders
   
5-2-14: Notice To Abate Nuisance
   
5-2-15: Abatement Of Nuisances; City To Abate; Time Limits
   
5-2-16: Failure To Abate, Separate And Recurring Offense
   
5-2-17: Abatement By City
   
5-2-18: Summary Abatement By City When Emergency Or On Public Property
   
5-2-19: Costs Of Abatement; Debt Of Owners
   
5-2-20: Conflicting Ordinances
   
5-2-21: Open Bodies Of Water, Fencing Required
5-2-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the city. (1982 Code)
5-2-2: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY
   Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or
continue for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place;
   is hereby declared a nuisance. (1982 Code)
5-2-3: NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED HEREIN
   Any nuisance declared by statute, this article or other provisions or
ordinances of the city shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
article as if enumerated specifically herein. (1982 Code)
5-2-4: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE
   Nuisances enumerated in this article shall not be deemed exclusive, but are
in addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions or ordinances of the city. (1982
Code)
5-2-5: DUTY OF CITY OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY
   A.   For the purposes of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of the
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors and the zoning and
noxious weed commissioner to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 583, 9-18-1984)
   B.   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the city to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (1982 Code)
5-2-6: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS
   Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers, or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate city officials whose functions include the abatement of
such nuisances. (1982 Code)
5-2-7: FOUL ODORS, FILTH
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the city and its residents for any person:
   A.   Businesses: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or
   B.   Animals: To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy manner
or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals from which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors; or
   C.   Animal Carcasses: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any animal carcass or any offal, filth, excretion or
other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is or is likely to
become putrid, foul, or offensive; or
   D.   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is,
or is likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   E.   Cellars, Vaults, Privies: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become from any
cause foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or
   F.   Stagnant Water: To permit to be collected or to stand upon any premises
any foul or stagnant water of any kind; or
   G.   Pigsties: To locate or maintain or permit to exist or remain, anywhere
with the city any pigsty; or
   H.   Foul Or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person. (1982 Code)
5-2-8: RUBBISH, DRY GRASS 1
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit:
   A.   Rubbish, Rags: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oily rags,
rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a
fire hazard; or
   B.   Dry Grass, Vegetation: The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth
upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like
substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article 8 of this chapter.
5-2-9: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, EXPLOSIVES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit:
   A.   Petroleum Products Or Toxic Substances: The accumulation or storage,
within one hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or
business, any of the following substances in a quantity greater than fifty (50)
gallons: petroleum of any form, naphtha, benzine, coal oil, gasoline, kerosene,
turpentine, inflammable substances, any substance of a toxic nature, any
compressed gases, anhydrous ammonia, toxic herbicides and insecticides if in
quantities of greater than fifty (50) gallons.
   B.   Explosives: The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within one
hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business of any
powder magazine, nitroglycerin, dynamite or other explosive substance of any
kind.
   C.   Accumulations Of Material: Accumulations of material as outlined in
subsection A of this section shall not be permitted unless said accumulations
of material are consistent with the applicable state and federal statutes
requiring specific precautions for the maintenance of the public's health and
safety in connection with said materials. (1982 Code)
5-2-10: UNSAFE AND BLIGHTED BUILDINGS
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence of any unsafe, dilapidated, blighted,
or otherwise insecure building, wall, stack, chimney, cornice, sign, awning or
other like structure of any kind which, from manner of construction, age,
condition or other circumstances, is or may become a menace to the safety of
persons or property or may become a blighted structure.
   For purposes of this section, the term "blighted" shall mean any building or
structure which is not properly maintained and is allowed to deteriorate so
that it is offensive to look at, may be a danger to adjoining buildings, may be
a danger to any persons under any of the other provisions of this section, is a
detriment to the area in which it is located so that it is offensive to public
aesthetics and/or causes a deterioration of property values on surrounding
properties, is not properly maintained and/or is allowed to deteriorate even
though said deterioration may be gradual so that the cumulative effect over a
period of time is to create said blighted or unsafe conditions.
   The term "unsafe building" as used herein is hereby defined to mean and
include: a) any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures; b) any building, shed,
fence or other manmade structure which, because of faulty construction, age,
lack of proper repair or any other cause, is especially liable to fire, and
constitutes or creates a fire hazard; c) any building, shed, fence or other
manmade structure which, by reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper
repair or any other cause is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or
by a collapse or fall of any part to such a structure; d) any building, shed,
fence or other manmade structure which, because of its condition or because of
lack of doors or windows is available to and frequented by malefactors or
disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of such structure.
   If any building shall be found in dangerous, unsafe or blighted condition,
the mayor or any official or employee designated by the city council shall
notify in writing the owner or owners thereof, directing said owner or owners
to put such building in a safe condition or to demolish it. Where, upon
diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any such
building shall not be ascertainable, such notice shall be mailed to the person
or persons in whose name such real estate was last assessed.
   If, after fifteen (15) days subsequent to the giving of such notice, said
owner or owners fail to put such building in a safe condition or to demolish
it, the mayor or any official or employee designated by the city council shall
so notify the city council requesting the council to direct the city attorney
to apply on behalf of the city to the circuit court of Carroll County for an
order authorizing the city to demolish or repair, or to cause the demolition or
repair of said building.
   The cost of such demolition or repair shall be recoverable from the owner or
owners of such real estate, and shall be a lien thereon as provided in the
Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1.
   In addition to the civil remedies set forth in this paragraph allowing an
unsafe and/or blighted building to exist shall be considered a violation of
this section and shall be punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
occurrence. Each day in which the condition is allowed to exist shall be a new
and separate offense. In addition to the civil remedies set forth in this
paragraph, the city may prosecute violations of this section as an ordinance
violation by the issuance of a citation which shall be presented to the circuit
court and tried as any other ordinance violation. Before the first complaint is
filed for an ordinance violation, a fifteen (15) day notice shall be given as
set forth in the preceding paragraphs of this section. However, after the
initial fifteen (15) day notice is given, a new citation may be issued for each
subsequent day in which the violation continues to occur without the
requirement of new fifteen (15) day notices being given. Specifically, one 15-
day notice shall be effective and citations may be issued each day after the
fifteenth day relying on the initial fifteen (15) day notice.
   Each fine levied as a result of the provisions of this section shall be
considered a judgment against the person against whom the fine is levied and
may be filed through the use of memorandum of recording in the county clerk's
office of any given county and shall become a lien on any real estate as would
any other judgment so recorded. (Ord. 744, 1-16-2001)
5-2-11: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible to
children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest,
deepfreeze or other airtight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity
of one and one-half (1 1/2) cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or
other covers have not been removed or which cannot easily be opened by a child,
by means of pushing only, from the inside thereof. (1982 Code)
5-2-12: DUST, CINDERS
   A.   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged, or otherwise disturbed so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise to the detriment of any person or property.
   B.   Every person engaged in hauling of any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes,
earth or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving,
rolling, compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the
like, shall make adequate provisions as often as is required to arrest and
prevent such dust through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials
used and recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the
supervision and approval of the director of public works. (1982 Code)
5-2-13: SCAFFOLDING, LADDERS
   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person:
   A.   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
   B.   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered. (1982 Code)
5-2-14: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE
   A.   Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or any police or
fire officer determines that a nuisance exists on any private property or
premises, except as otherwise provided herein, the proper city official shall
cause a written notice to be served personally upon the owner or if the owner
cannot be found upon the occupant or person in control of the property or
premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance, and shall
cause a copy of said notice to be conspicuously posted within or upon such
property or premises.
   B.   Such notice shall fairly appraise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided
therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state that if
said nuisance is abated by the city, liability for necessary expenses so
incurred shall accrue as provided in section 5-2-19 of this article. (1982
Code)
5-2-15: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; CITY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS
   It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the City to
discontinue and abate such nuisance within forty eight (48) hours or such other
time period as may be specified therein, from the time he receives written
notice thereof. (1982 Code)
5-2-16: FAILURE TO ABATE, SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Article for any person to
neglect, refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after
expiration of the forty eight (48) hours or other specified time period
provided by notice thereof; and each twenty four (24) hours, or fraction
thereof, during which such nuisance continues or exists shall be deemed a
separate offense. Each violation of this Article shall be punishable as set
forth in Section
1-3-7  of this Code. (1982 Code; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-2-17: ABATEMENT BY CITY
   Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in
control of the premises or property affected within the time provided by
notice, the proper City officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such
nuisance. (1982 Code)
5-2-18: SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY CITY WHEN EMERGENCY OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   Whenever any nuisance: a) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to public health or safety, or b) exists on public property,
the proper City officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any forty eight (48) hours or
other time period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor;
provided, however, that in situation a) above, such officer shall have first
applied for and obtained the written permission of the Mayor for such summary
abatement. (1982 Code)
5-2-19: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNERS
   A.   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the City
pursuant to the provisions of Sections
5-2-17  and
5-2-18  of this Article shall be deemed a debt to the City by the owner, lessee
or person in control of the premises upon which such nuisance existed;
provided, that where specifically provided in this Article or by statute, such
costs and expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate or personal
property affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax
liens.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to enforce by civil action
any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection A of this Section.
(1982 Code)
5-2-20: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
   Any prior ordinances inconsistent with this Article are hereby repealed
insomuch as they are in conflict with this Article. (1982 Code)
5-2-21: OPEN BODIES OF WATER, FENCING REQUIRED
   A.   Definition: "Swimming pools" and "manmade bodies of water" are hereby
defined as a receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water, having a
depth at any point of thirty one inches (31") or more, whether or not intended
for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings,
including portable or temporary-type pools of plastic, rubberized cloth or
similar materials, installed either above or below ground elevation, and
including all appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or
above the ground outside of a building.
   B.   Compliance Required:
      1.   New Installation: It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain,
install or enlarge a swimming pool or manmade body of water within the City
limits except in compliance with the provisions of this Section.
      2.   Existing Pools Or Ponds: All manmade ponds, swimming pools and other
receptacles containing water which are in existence at the time of this Section
shall have a period of thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Section
to be brought into compliance with the provisions of this Section.
   C.   Fence Requirements:
      1.   Aboveground Pools: All aboveground elevation swimming pools or ponds
within the City except swimming pools with a fence integral with the pool wall
shall be completely enclosed by a fence or other structure designed to prevent
small children from inadvertently wandering into the pool or pond. Such fence
or other structure shall not be less than four feet (4') in height. All access
gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped with a self-
closing and self-latching device designed to keep and capable of keeping such
door or gate securely closed and locked at all times when not in actual use and
to prevent small children from opening the access door or gate; provided,
however, that the door of any dwelling forming any part of the enclosure
hereinabove required need not be so equipped. Swimming pools with a self-
contained fence shall have at least four feet (4') in total height of pool wall
and fence from ground level to the top of fence.
      2.   Below Ground Elevation Swimming Pools Or Ponds: All swimming pools
and ponds within the City shall be completely enclosed by a fence or other
structure designed to prevent small children from inadvertently wandering into
the pool or pond. Such fence shall be erected along the periphery of the pool
or pond. All gates or doors opening through such enclosures shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device designed to keep and capable of
keeping such door or gate securely closed and locked at all times when not in
actual use and to prevent small children from opening the door or gate;
provided, however, that the door of any dwelling forming any part of the
enclosure hereinabove required need not be so equipped. All fences under this
subsection shall be at least four feet (4') in height.
      3.   Maintenance: All fences called for under the terms of this Section
shall be maintained at all times to provide the same restrictions to entry by
small children as they provide at the time of their initial installation.
Failure to maintain said fence shall constitute a violation of this Section.
(Ord. 546, 3-3-1981)
      4.   Applicability Of Provisions: The requirement for fencing set forth
in the previous subsection shall apply to any receptacle thirty one inches
(31") in depth at any point. It shall not be a requirement that there be thirty
one inches (31") of water placed in said receptacle. Regardless of the depth of
water in the receptacle, any receptacle with a thirty one inch (31") total
depth shall be subject to the fence provisions of this Section. It shall not be
a defense to a violation of this Section that a swimming pool or manmade body
of water was empty or partially filled or filled to a point at which at no
point there was thirty one inches (31") of water. A failure to have a fence and
properly maintain it shall be a violation even if the pool is empty. (Ord. 597,
10-7-1986)
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this Section shall be punishable as set forth in
Section
1-3-7 of this Code. Each day a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 546, 3-3-1981; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
ARTICLE 3
LITTER
SECTION:
   
5-3-1: Depositing Of Litter Prohibited
   
5-3-2: Vehicles To Be Covered
   
5-3-3: Penalty
5-3-1: DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in person or by his agent, employee or
servant, to cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit, in any manner, in or upon any
public way or other public place in the City or any public water, drain, sewer
or receiving basin within the jurisdiction of the City, any kind of dirt,
rubbish, waste article, thing or substance whatsoever, whether liquid or solid.
Nor shall any person cast, throw, sweep, sift or deposit any of the
aforementioned items anywhere within the jurisdiction of the City in such
manner that it may be carried or deposited in whole or in part, by the action
of the sun, wind, rain or snow, into any of the aforementioned places.
   Provided, that this Section shall not apply to the deposit of material under
a permit authorized by any ordinance of the City; or to goods, wares or
merchandise deposited upon any public way or other public place temporarily, in
the necessary course of trade, and removed therefrom within two (2) hours after
being so deposited; or to articles or things deposited in or conducted into the
City sewer system through lawful drains in accordance with the ordinances of
the City relating thereto. (1982 Code)
5-3-2: VEHICLES TO BE COVERED
   It shall be unlawful for any person, in person or by his or its agent,
employee or servant, to use any vehicle to haul any kind of dirt, rubbish,
waste articles or things or substance, whether liquid or solid, unless such
vehicle is covered to prevent any part of its load from spilling or dropping at
all times while such vehicle is in motion on any street or alley in the
Municipality. Provided, however, that the requirements herein for covering
vehicles shall not apply to vehicles carrying brush cuttings, tree trimmings,
branches, logs and similar waste material, if such matter is securely lashed to
such vehicle to prevent spilling or dropping as aforesaid. (1982 Code)
5-3-3: PENALTY
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be fined as
set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1982
Code; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
ARTICLE 4
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
   
5-4-1: Definitions
   
5-4-2: Proclamation By Mayor
   
5-4-3: Imposition Of Curfew
   
5-4-4: Additional Regulations
   
5-4-5: Emergency Powers
   
5-4-6: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS
CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the City, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the City during the
hours in which a curfew has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (1982 Code)
5-4-2: PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR
   When in the judgment of the Mayor a "civil emergency" as defined herein is
deemed to exist he shall forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of same.
(1982 Code)
5-4-3: IMPOSITION OF CURFEW
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the City or to the City as a
whole, as he deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the day or
night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(1982 Code)
5-4-4: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
   After proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also in the interest
of public safety and welfare make any or all of the following orders:
   A.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
   B.   Order the closing of all taverns;
   C.   Order the closing of all private clubs or portions thereof wherein the
consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
   D.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
   E.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   F.   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
   G.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
   H.   Order the closing of any or all establishments or portions thereof, the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution, dispensing or giving away of
firearms and/or ammunition;
   I.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property. (1982 Code)
5-4-5: EMERGENCY POWERS
   During the period of a declared state of emergency, the Mayor shall have the
power to invoke any or all of the following provisions:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages: No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages in
a public street or place which is publicly owned or in any motor vehicle driven
or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted area;
   B.   Weapons: No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club, brick
or weapon, who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the person or
property of another;
   C.   Incendiary Missiles: No person shall make, carry, possess or use any
type of "molotov cocktail", gasoline or petroleum base fire bomb or other
incendiary missile;
   D.   Restricted Areas: No person shall enter any area designated by the
Mayor as a restricted area unless in the performance of official duties or with
written permission from the Mayor or his duly designated representative, or
such person shall prove residence therein. (1982 Code)
5-4-6: PENALTY
   Any person violating any provisions of this Article shall be punishable by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 5
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
   
5-5-1:    Gambling
   
5-5-2:    Abandoned Refrigerators
   
5-5-3:    Disorderly Conduct
   
5-5-4:    Profanity
   
5-5-5:    Indecent Conduct
   
5-5-6:    Fighting
   
5-5-7:    False Alarms
   
5-5-8:    Disturbing Assemblages
   
5-5-9:    Weapons
   
5-5-10: Discharge Of Weapons
   
5-5-11: Combustible Refuse
   
5-5-12: Fires
   
5-5-13: Burning Leaves, Wood, Refuse, Garbage And Other Combustibles
   
5-5-14: Windblown Refuse
   
5-5-15: Deposit Of Refuse Or Garbage On Private Premises
   
5-5-16: Burning Of Refuse
   
5-5-17: Missiles
   
5-5-18: Debris On Streets
   
5-5-19: Advertising
   
5-5-20: Unlawful Assemblages
   
5-5-21: Unwholesome Business
   
5-5-22: Bathing
   
5-5-23: Posting Bills
   
5-5-24: Placing Advertising Matter In Motor Vehicles
   
5-5-25: Fences
   
5-5-26: Deposit Of Grass And Rubbish Prohibited In Public Streets
   
5-5-27: Indecent Publications
   
5-5-28: Scaffolds
   
5-5-29: Articles On Windows
   
5-5-30: Whistles
   
5-5-31: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
   
5-5-32: Mendicants, Vagrants
   
5-5-33: Loitering
   
5-5-34: Expectorating
   
5-5-35: Hitchhiking
   
5-5-36: Defacing Public Or Private Property
   
5-5-37: Noises
   
5-5-38: Giving False Information
   
5-5-39: Possession Of Unsealed Alcoholic Liquor In Public Place
   
5-5-40: Fireworks Prohibited
   
5-5-41: Recyclable Materials
   
5-5-42: Penalty
   
5-5-43: Snow Or Ice On Sidewalks
5-5-1: GAMBLING
   It shall be unlawful to gamble or attend any gambling resort or to make any
bet, lottery or gambling hazard, or to buy or sell any chances or tickets in
any gambling game, arrangement or device.
   It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device or paraphernalia with
the intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose; and any such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by any member of the
police department.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any establishment maintained
for a gambling house or resort anywhere in the city.
   It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or resort in any
street, alley or other public place within the city.
   All forms of gambling which are sanctioned by state statutes such as bingo,
when conducted pursuant to the provisions of existing state statutes, lotteries
when conducted pursuant to the provisions of the existing state statutes,
Illinois state lotteries as operated by the state, and other forms of gambling
consistent with the provisions of the statutes of the state, shall not be
deemed to be a violation of this section. (1982 Code)
5-5-2: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any refrigerator, freezer or icebox or other
device having an automatic lock on a compartment large enough to enclose a
human being in a place accessible to children without first removing the doors
of such refrigerator, freezer or icebox. (1982 Code)
5-5-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct or of
any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any
unnecessary loud noise or shouting or yelling shall be considered disorderly
conduct. (1982 Code)
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in section 1-3-7 of this code. (Ord. 715, 6-
16-1998)
5-5-4: PROFANITY
   It shall be unlawful to use profanity on any street, alley or other public
place in the city. (1982 Code)
5-5-5: INDECENT CONDUCT
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent or immoral act in
public view. It shall be unlawful to present, exhibit, conduct or take part in
any indecent, lascivious or obscene show, play, theatrical, exhibition or other
form of entertainment. (1982 Code)
5-5-6: FIGHTING
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight, or to fight,
or to commit any assault or battery in any public place in the city. (1982
Code)
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in section
1-3-7 of this code. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-7: FALSE ALARMS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false
alarm of fire, riot, explosion, civil disturbance or other breach of the peace
in the city.
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to report the existence
of a fire or other emergency to the police, fire department or any other agency
empowered to deal with an emergency when such person knows the report to be
false.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to report or cause to be reported to
any police agency any information concerning the commission of any offense or
other incident which would require police action when: 1) he knows that no such
offense or other incident has occurred; or 2) he knows the information is false
or that he has no such information. (1982 Code)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined as set forth in section
1-3-7 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which an offense occurs or continues. (1982
Code; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-8: DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the city. (1982 Code)
5-5-9: WEAPONS
   It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons in the city in violation
of the laws of this state. (1982 Code)
5-5-10: DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or air gun, BB gun, or any toy
gun, projecting lead or any missiles excepting in a regularly established
shooting gallery; provided, that this section shall not be construed to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance
of his duty; nor to any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully
defending person or property. (1982 Code)
5-5-11: COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way
as to create a fire hazard or to store or throw away any refuse of any find in
an alley, street or public way in the city. Accumulations of wastepaper, hay,
grass, straw, weeds, litter or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any
kind shall not be permitted to remain upon any roof or in any court, yard,
vacant lot or open space or upon any public street, sidewalk, easement or alley
abutting thereon. All weeds, grass, vines or other growth, when the same
endangers property or is liable to be fired, shall be cut down and removed by
the owner or occupant of the property, including all weeds, grass, vines or
other growth growing in or upon any public street, sidewalk, easement or alley
abutting said property. (1982 Code)
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in section
1-3-7 of this code. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-12: FIRES
   It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any building
or other structure as to endanger such building or structure, or on any asphalt
street or sidewalk pavement. (1982 Code)
5-5-13: BURNING LEAVES, WOOD, REFUSE, GARBAGE AND OTHER COMBUSTIBLES
   A.   It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage, or other organic refuse,
outside of any building at any time in the city. It shall be unlawful to burn
papers, excelsior or other material which may be blown about by the wind
anywhere in the city unless the same is burned in a stove, fireplace or furnace
or incinerator sufficiently fine to prevent the escape of ignited particles.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to burn grass or leaves at any time in the city of
Lanark.
   C.   The only burning outside of a building that shall be permitted shall be
solely the burning of wood for what is commonly referred to as bonfires or
campfires. These fires shall consist only of burning wood other than small
amounts of paper or other substances that may be used as kindling and shall
only be done inside of a containment area. The containment may be a ring of
stones or bricks commonly referred to as a fire ring which shall not have a
diameter greater than three feet (3'). Other types of containments are also
permissible in connection with a bonfire or campfire. All other types of
outdoor burning is hereby prohibited in the city of Lanark at all times.
   D.   An "outdoor wood furnace" is any equipment, device, appliance or
apparatus, or any part thereof, which is installed, affixed or situated
outdoors for the primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or
energy used as a component of a heating system providing heat for any interior
space or water source. Fuel burned in any new or existing outdoor wood furnace
shall be only natural untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products, biomass
pellets or other listed fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer's
instructions.
Outdoor wood furnaces may not be operated between May 1 and October 1.
A building permit is required for installation of a new outdoor wood furnace.
The unit shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') inside a property
line and at least one hundred feet (100') from any residence that is not served
by the furnace. The chimney of any new outdoor wood furnace shall extend at
least two feet (2') above the peak of any residence not served by the outdoor
wood furnace located within three hundred feet (300') of such outdoor wood
furnace.
Existing outdoor wood furnaces must conform to the chimney height requirements
of this subsection by October 1, 2008.
   E.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in section 1-3-7 of this code. (Ord. 833, 4-
15-2008)
5-5-14: WINDBLOWN REFUSE
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or leave any refuse or material in such a
place or condition that it can be blown by the wind so as to be scattered or
cause clouds of dust or particles; and it shall be unlawful to permit the
escape of soot, ashes or other solid products or results of combustion so as to
be windblown or scattered. (1982 Code)
5-5-15: DEPOSIT OF REFUSE OR GARBAGE ON PRIVATE PREMISES
   It shall be unlawful to place, deposit, leave or dump any trash, ashes,
broken articles, garbage, junk, refuse or waste material of any kind on any
premises in the city without the consent of the owner or tenant in possession
thereof. For the purpose of this section, vehicles or parts of vehicles not in
condition for normal use shall be considered as junk or trash. (1982 Code)
5-5-16: BURNING OF REFUSE
   The burning of shavings, sawdust and refuse materials shall be permitted
only under boilers, in furnaces, or in incinerators or refuse burners safely
constructed and located. Stacks shall be provided with approved spark arresters
having openings not greater than one-fourth inch (1/4") or other effective
means provided which will eliminate the danger from sparks, such as an
expansion chamber, baffle walls, or other effective arrangement. At the boiler
or other points where sawdust or shavings are used as fuel, a storage bin or
noncombustible construction with raised sill shall be provided. (1982 Code)
5-5-17: MISSILES
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any missile on any street,
alley or other public place. (1982 Code)
5-5-18: DEBRIS ON STREETS
   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, tacks, nails or other
similar articles on any street, alley or sidewalk or other public place in the
city. (1982 Code)
5-5-19: ADVERTISING
   It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article in the
city and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement or
notice. (1982 Code)
5-5-20: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLAGES
   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any disorderly
crowd, or any crowd gathered for any unlawful purpose. (1982 Code)
5-5-21: UNWHOLESOME BUSINESS
   It shall be unlawful to establish or conduct any packing plant,
slaughterhouse, rendering plant, tallow chandlery, soap factory, glue factory,
tannery, or any offensive or unwholesome business within the city or within one
mile of the limits thereof. (1982 Code)
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing the operation of a
duly licensed and properly maintained butcher shop or slaughterhouse within the
city limits. In connection with said butcher shop or slaughterhouse operation,
it shall be legal to undertake the slaughter of animals through the use of any
method consistent with the appropriate state statutes and regulations
including, but not limited to, the humane slaughter of animals act 1 , as
amended, and the appropriate regulations established under said act. (Ord. 587,
3-5-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. 51 ILCS 75/1 et seq.
5-5-22: BATHING
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place or in any
place open to the public view unless such person is adequately garbed in a
bathing suit. (1982 Code)
5-5-23: POSTING BILLS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bills or advertisements on
any public property without the authority of the City; and it shall be unlawful
to post any bill or advertisement on any property without the written consent
of the owner thereof. (1982 Code)
5-5-24: PLACING ADVERTISING MATTER IN MOTOR VEHICLES
   It shall be unlawful for any person whether a licensed billposter or not, to
distribute handbills, circulars, dodgers, pamphlets, cards, pictures or any
advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, by placing the same in or upon any
motor vehicle standing or parked in the public streets of the City. (1982 Code)
5-5-25: FENCES
   A.   A "fence" is hereby defined for purposes of the ordinances of the City
as a hedge, structure, or partition, erected for the purpose of enclosing a
piece of land, or to divide a piece of land into distinct portions, or to
separate two (2) contiguous estates. All such devices within the City shall be
considered a fence whether their purpose is to restrain animals, to restrain
small children, to prevent people entering upon property, for beautification or
otherwise for aesthetic purposes or for any other purpose.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to construct any fence on an area zoned in the
City to a height greater than eight feet (8') on the sides or rear of a
property or to a height greater than four feet (4') on the front of a property.
   C.   It shall be further provided that the eight foot (8') side fence shall
not extend further forward on a property than the minimum setback requirements
for constructing buildings on said property. It is further provided that the
side fence may extend forward from said setback line to the line at which a
front fence may be placed, but said additional side fence in front of said
setback line shall not be greater than four feet (4') in height. Further, there
shall be a setback requirement on the rear of the property of five feet (5') if
the property borders an alley. If there is no alley bordering all or a portion
of the property, there shall be no setback requirement along the portion of
said property that does not have an alley bordering it. It shall, therefore, be
possible to place a fence on the boundary line on the sides and on the rear
where no alley is involved. If an alley is involved on either the rear or the
side, then a five foot (5') setback shall be required along said alley. In the
event a lot is on a corner, all portions of the lot abutting a street shall be
considered front yard for purposes of the setback requirements and for purposes
of determining the height of fences.
   D.   The setback requirement on any fence on the front of the property shall
be such that the fence may be placed immediately inside the sidewalk on said
property if said sidewalk runs parallel to the street on which said property
fronts. In the event the property contains no sidewalk on its front, the
setback requirement on a fence on the front shall be back far enough to allow
the establishment of a sidewalk so that if said sidewalk were placed on said
property, the fence would be immediately inside of the said sidewalk. (Ord.
598, 12-16-1986)
5-5-26: DEPOSIT OF GRASS AND RUBBISH PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC STREETS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit, or cause to be
dumped or deposited any grass, leaves, branches, or any other things in the
roadway or gutter of any public street in the City. (1982 Code)
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-27: INDECENT PUBLICATIONS
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or to circulate, pass from
one person to another or expose in any public place or anywhere in view of a
store or place frequented by the public, any immoral, indecent or obscene
publications, printed or written matter or picture or other representation.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any such publication, printed or written
matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by or where it
may come into the possession of minors or to disclose or expose any such
material to a minor.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to print, publish, design, prepare,
import, distribute, exhibit, display, sell, possess with intent to sell, offer
for sale, loan or give away to a minor within the City, any book, pamphlet,
magazine, printed paper, phonograph record, drawing, picture, photograph
figure, image, article, or other thing which is obscene, immoral, lewd,
lascivious, or indecent, or which depicts by pictures or printed matter
fanciful deeds of crime or bloodshed tending to incite minors to violent,
depraved or immoral acts, or manifestly tend to the corruption of the morals of
minors or which manifestly tends to incite minors to disregard the law of the
land. The provisions of this Article shall have no application to the printing
of factual information or news about a crime which has been committed, when
printed in a newspaper or magazine of general circulation, and such
publications are printed at regular intervals not greater than once a month,
and regularly admitted to the United States mail, nor shall this Article apply
to the distribution of such information so printed. (1982 Code)
5-5-28: SCAFFOLDS
   Any scaffold or ladder placed in such a way that they overhang or can fall
onto any public street, alley or other public place in the City, shall be
firmly constructed and safeguarded; and it shall be unlawful to place or leave
any tools or articles on any such place in such a manner that the same can fall
onto any such street, sidewalk, alley or other public place from a height
greater than four feet (4'). (1982 Code)
5-5-29: ARTICLES ON WINDOWS
   It shall be unlawful to place any movable article on any window ledge or
other place abutting on a public street, alley or other place at a height above
four feet (4') from the ground in such a manner that the same can be or is in
danger of falling onto any such street, sidewalk, alley or other public place.
(1982 Code)
5-5-30: WHISTLES
   It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be blown any steam whistle of any
stationary engine or steam engine in the City except as a signal for starting
or stopping work or in emergencies to avoid injury to persons or property.
(1982 Code)
5-5-31: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor, or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building
used by two (2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes
with the free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor, or exit. (1982 Code)
5-5-32: MENDICANTS, VAGRANTS
   It shall be unlawful for mendicants or vagrants to frequent any depot,
store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other place publicly
frequented in the City. Any person found sleeping in any such place, and who
has not any established domicile or residence shall be considered a vagrant.
(1982 Code)
5-5-33: LOITERING
   A.   Definition: As used in this Section, "loitering" shall mean remaining
idle in essentially one location and shall include the concepts of spending
time idly, loafing, or walking about aimlessly and shall also include the
colloquial expression "hanging around".
   B.   Certain Types Of Loitering Prohibited: No person shall loiter in a
public place in such manner as to:
      1.   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
      2.   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
      3.   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      4.   Obstruct, molest, or interfere with any person lawfully in any
public place.
This subsection shall include the making of unsolicited remarks of an
offensive, disgusting or insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or
disturb the person to, or in whose hearing, they are made.
   C.   Request To Leave: Whenever the presence of any person in any public
place is causing or is likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated herein,
any police officer may order that person to leave that place. Any person who
shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police officer shall be
guilty of a violation of this Section.
   D.   Offense: A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1982 Code)
   E.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section
shall be subject to a penalty as set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-34: EXPECTORATING
   It shall be unlawful to expectorate on any public street, or upon any public
sidewalk or in any other public place; or in any public vehicle, or any store,
assembly hall, corridor or other place open to and used by the public. (1982
Code)
5-5-35: HITCHHIKING
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or loiter upon any sidewalk,
street, avenue, alley or public highway or grounds within the limits of the
City for the purpose of "thumbing", requesting, asking, or soliciting a ride
from the operator of any motor vehicle.
   The provisions hereof shall not be construed to prevent a person upon a
public highway from soliciting, or a driver of a vehicle from giving a ride
where an emergency actually exists, nor to prevent a person from signaling or
requesting transportation from a passenger carrier for the purpose of becoming
a passenger thereon for hire.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting employment
or business from the occupant of any vehicle. (1982 Code)
5-5-36: DEFACING PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY
   No person shall mar, injure, destroy or deface, or aid in injuring,
destroying, or defacing in the City, any public or private property, or cause
to be posted or stuck, any handbill or placard upon any public or private
building, or upon any fence or other property within the City without the
permission from the owner or occupant first obtained; nor mar, injure, destroy
or deface or cause to be marred, destroyed, injured or defaced any bridge,
fence, tree, street sign, awning, lamppost, electric lightpost, or apparatus or
any other property not belonging to the person so offending, whether public or
private. (1982 Code)
5-5-37: NOISES
   It shall be unlawful to make or cause to be made any noise or sounds of such
volume or of such a nature as to cause annoyance to residents of the City.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb the peace by the making of any unnecessary
noise.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any pneumatic hammer, grinding or crushing
machinery, mixing or leading machine, or any other machinery, equipment or
device in the City which makes or causes a noise in violation of any of the
provisions of this Section. (1982 Code)
5-5-38: GIVING FALSE INFORMATION
   It shall be unlawful to give false information, knowingly, to any official
or employee or representative of the City on any matter pertaining to or
affected by his official duties.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal his identity, or to falsely
identify himself in response to any inquiry by an official or employee of the
City in connection with the performance of his official duties. (1982 Code)
5-5-39: POSSESSION OF UNSEALED ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN PUBLIC PLACE
   For purposes of this Section, the term "public place" shall be defined to
include, and shall not be limited to, all public streets, highways, alleyways,
thoroughfares, public sidewalks, public parks or parkways and all other
publicly owned property.
   It shall be unlawful to transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic
liquor in or upon or about such public places, except in the original package
and with the seal unbroken. (1982 Code)
   Any person violating this Section shall be fined as set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code for each offense. (1982 Code; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-40: FIREWORKS PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, set off, fire, ignite, light,
use, display, explode or put in use, action, operation or effect any fireworks,
firecrackers, torpedoes, Roman candles or other pyrotechnic display or cause or
suffer or permit the same to be done in the City unless such display is done
pursuant to a permit issued by the State for public demonstrations. No private
use of fireworks shall be permitted. (1982 Code)
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to a penalty as set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
5-5-41: RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a person representing an
individual or entity which has contracted with the city of Lanark for the
removal of recyclable materials, to remove any recyclable materials such as,
but not limited to, glass, paper, plastic or metal from a container that has
been positioned for pick up by said entity or persons which have contracted
with the city to empty and remove its contents. (Ord. 798, 6-7-2005)
5-5-42: PENALTY
   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less
than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (1982 Code; amd. Ord. 798, 6-7-2005)
5-5-43: SNOW OR ICE ON SIDEWALKS
   Every owner and every person in charge or control of any building or lot of
land shall remove and clear away or cause to be removed and cleared away snow,
ice, sleet, or freezing rain from the sidewalks in front or abutting said lands
within twenty four (24) hours after the cessation of any fall of snow, ice,
sleet, or freezing rain. In the event snow, ice, sleet, or freezing rain on a
sidewalk has become so hard that it cannot reasonably be removed, the owner
and/or person in charge or control shall cause enough sand or suitable abrasive
material to be put on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe and
shall maintain the sidewalk in such condition until weather permits the owner
to clear the sidewalk. (Ord. 883, 3-4-2014)
ARTICLE 6
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES 1
   (Rep. by Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 7, article 11 of this code.
ARTICLE 7
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
   
5-7-1:    Short Title
   
5-7-2:    Purpose and Declaration of Policy
   
5-7-3:    Construction of Article
   
5-7-4:    Severability
   
5-7-5:    Definitions
   
5-7-6:    Sale, Lease and Rental Discriminatory Acts
   
5-7-7:    Real Estate Agents and Lending Institutions
   
5-7-8:    False Representation; Other Violations
   
5-7-9:    Complaints, Hearings, Enforcement
   
5-7-10: Remedies
   
5-7-11: Penalty
5-7-1: SHORT TITLE
   This Article shall be known and may be cited as the FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE
of the City of Lanark, Illinois. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-2: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF POLICY
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City and the purpose of this
Article, in the exercise by the City of its police and regulatory powers for
the protection of the public safety for the health, morals, safety and welfare
of the persons in and residing in the City, and for the maintenance and
promotion of commerce, industry and good government in the City, to secure to
all persons living or desiring to live in the City a fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy housing without discrimination based on race,
color, religion or national origin. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-3: CONSTRUCTION OF ARTICLE
   This Article shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms
and shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated in
Section
5-7-4 and the special purposes of the particular provision involved. (Ord. 664,
7-5-94)
5-7-4: SEVERABILITY
   If any provision of this Article or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the Article and the application
of the provision to other persons not similarly situated or to other
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-5: DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this Article:
DWELLING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the City of
Lanark, which is arranged, designed or used as a home, residence or living
quarters of one or more individuals.
HOUSING: Includes any building or structure, or portion thereof, within the
City of Lanark, which is used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed
to be used or occupied as the home, residence or living quarters of one or more
individuals, groups or families, and includes any vacant land within the City
of Lanark which is zoned and intended to be used for the construction of any
such building or structure.
LEASE: Includes sublease, assignment, and rent (or rental), and includes any
contract to do any of the foregoing.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association,
other person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, any person
in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or guarantees as
agent or broker, and any person in the business of buying or selling loans or
instruments for the payment of money which are secured by title to a security
interest in real estate, but shall not include any religious institution or
organization nor any charitable or educational organization operated,
supervised or controlled by a religious institution or organization.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in, any dwelling or housing, or who holds legal or equitable title to
shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any dwelling or housing.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, legal representatives, mutual companies, unincorporated
organizations, trusts, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers and
fiduciaries.
PURCHASE: Includes any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE AGENT: Any real estate broker, any real estate salesman, and any
other person who, as employee or agent or otherwise, engages in the management
or operation of any dwelling or housing.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person licensed as a real estate broker in accordance
with the provisions of the relevant Illinois Compiled Statutes, or required
thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE SALESMAN: Any person licensed as a real estate salesman in
accordance with the provisions of relevant Illinois Compiled Statutes, or
required thereby to be so licensed.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase, sale, exchange or lease of any dwelling
or housing, and an option to do any of the foregoing.
SALE: Includes any contract to sell, exchange, or to convey, transfer or assign
legal or equitable title to or a beneficial interest in real estate. (Ord. 664,
7-5-94) !DEFEND!
5-7-6: SALE, LEASE AND RENTAL DISCRIMINATORY ACTS:
   A.   Discriminatory Terms: It shall be unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any owner or other person to sell or lease a
dwelling or housing on terms, conditions or privileges that discriminate
between persons because of race, color, religion or national origin.
   B.   Refusals to Deal: It shall be unlawful housing practice and a violation
of this Article for any owner or other person to refuse to negotiate for, enter
into or perform any sale or lease of any dwelling or housing, because of the
race, color, religion or national origin of any party to such sale or lease, or
of any member of the family of any such party, or of any person using or
occupying or intending to use or occupy such dwelling or housing, or of any
person using or occupying any dwelling or housing in the area in which such
dwelling or housing is located.
   C.   Withholding Housing: It shall be unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any owner or other person to represent to any
person that any dwelling or housing is not available for inspection, purchase,
sale, lease or occupancy when in fact it is so available, or otherwise to
withhold housing from any person because of race, color, religion or national
origin.
   D.   Advertisements: It shall be unlawful housing practice and a violation
of this Article for any owner or other person to publish or circulate a
statement, advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or lease any
dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under this Section.
   E.   Advertisements, Causing or Permitting: It shall be unlawful housing
practice and a violation of this Article for any owner or other person to cause
any person to circulate or publish a statement, advertisement or notice that
such owner or other person intends to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in
a manner that is unlawful under this Section, or to consent thereto.
   F.   Signs and Notices: It shall be unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any owner or other person to post or erect, or
cause any person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon any dwelling or
housing, indicating an intent to sell or lease any dwelling or housing in a
manner that is unlawful under this Section.
   G.   Exemptions: This Section shall not apply to the rental of any room or
dwelling unit in any owner occupied dwelling which consists of more than one
but less than five (5) dwelling units. As used herein, the term "dwelling unit"
means one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters
for one family or one individual. The term "owner" includes the spouse or any
lineal descendant or ancestor of the owner.
   H.   Limitations: Nothing in this Article shall require an owner to offer
property to the public at large before selling or renting it, providing he
complies with all other provisions of this Article. Nor shall this Article be
deemed to prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or
buyers for any reason other than religion, race, color or national origin.
Nothing in this Article shall require an owner to offer property for sale or
lease or to show his property to any person if such person is not negotiating
for the purchase or lease of such property in good faith. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-7: REAL ESTATE AGENTS AND LENDING INSTITUTIONS
   A.   Withholding Housing: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any real estate agent or other person to
represent to any person that any dwelling or housing is not available for
inspection, sale, lease or occupancy when in fact it is so available, or
otherwise to withhold housing from any person because of race, color, religion
or national origin.
   B.   Refusal of Offers: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any real estate agent or other person to refuse
to receive or to fail to transmit a bona fide offer for the purchase, sale,
exchange or lease of any dwelling or housing because of the race, color,
religion or national origin of the person making such offer.
   C.   Advertisements: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any real estate agent or other person to publish
or circulate a statement, advertisement or notice of an intention to sell or
lease any dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under Section
5-7-6.
   D.   Signs and Notices: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any real estate agent or other person to post or
erect, or cause or permit any person to post or erect, any sign or notice upon
any dwelling or housing, managed by or in the custody, care or control of such
real estate agent or other person, indicating an intent to sell or lease any
dwelling or housing in a manner that is unlawful under Sections
5-7-6 or
5-7-7.
   E.   Discrimination in Lending: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and
a violation of this Article for any lending institution, in making, agreeing to
make, arranging or negotiating any loan or guarantee of funds for the purpose
of financing the purchase or sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation,
improvement, renovation or repair of any dwelling or housing, to offer, seek or
agree to terms, conditions or privileges that discriminate between persons
because of race, color, religion or national origin.
   F.   Refusals to Deal in Lending: It shall be an unlawful housing practice
and a violation of this Article for any lending institution to refuse to
negotiate for, enter into or perform any agreement to lend or guarantee the
loan of funds for the purchase, sale, construction, lease, rehabilitation,
improvement, renovation or repair of any dwelling or housing because of the
race, color, religion or national origin of any party to such agreement or of
any member of the family of any such party, or of the residents of the area in
which such dwelling or housing is located.
   G.   Coverage: This Section shall apply, respectively, to every real estate
agent who, within the City, performs any function as such real estate agent but
does not maintain an office or place of doing business within the City, and
this Section applies to every real estate agent and lending institution who
maintains an office or place of doing business within the City; provided,
however, that the provisions of this Article shall not be so construed as to
prohibit a real estate broker or real estate agent, on behalf of the owner,
from inquiring into and reporting upon qualifications of any prospective buyer
or tenant with respect to limitations or exclusions other than those of race,
color, religion or national origin. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-8: FALSE REPRESENTATION; OTHER VIOLATIONS
   A.   Representation: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any person, for the purpose of inducing any other
person to enter into a real estate transaction with such person, his principal
or his agent.
      1.   To represent that a change has occurred, will occur or may occur
with respect to the race, color, religion or national origin in the composition
of the owners or occupants in any block, neighborhood or area in which the
dwelling or housing (which is the subject of the real estate transaction) is
located, or
      2.   To represent that a change with respect to the race, color, religion
or national origin in the composition of the owners or occupants in any block,
neighborhood or area will result in lowering of property values, or in an
increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or in a decline in the quality of
schools, in such block, neighborhood or area.
   B.   Other Violations: It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a
violation of this Article for any person:
      1.   To aid, abet, incite, or coerce a person to engage in unlawful
housing practice,
      2.   Wilfully to interfere with the performance of a duty or the exercise
of a power by the City Council or one of its members or representatives, or
      3.   Wilfully to obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the
provisions of this Article or an order issued thereunder. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-9: COMPLAINTS, HEARINGS, ENFORCEMENT
   A.   Complaints:
      1.   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provisions
of this Article may file with the City Council a written verified complaint
setting forth his grievance. The complaint shall state: a) the name and address
of the complainant; b) the name and address of the person against whom the
complaint is brought, if known to the complainant; and c) the alleged facts
surrounding the alleged violation of this Article; and such complaint shall
state the name and address of all persons believed to have knowledge concerning
the alleged facts.
      2.   After the filing of any complaint, the City Council shall serve a
copy of the complaint on the party or parties charged.
   B.   Hearings by Village Board:
      1.   Such hearing shall be conducted by the City Council upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties. The City Council shall have power to
administer oaths and to take sworn testimony. Any party alleged to have
violated this Article shall be entitled to be represented by counsel and shall
have the right to call witnesses in his own behalf and to cross-examine
witnesses.
      2.   At the conclusion of such hearing, the City Council shall render the
complainant a decision.
   C.   Enforcement:
      1.   The City Council shall be empowered to order any person found to be
engaging in an unfair housing practice to cease and desist from such practice,
upon such terms as shall be necessary and proper for the enforcement of this
Article.
      2.   The City Council shall be empowered at the conclusion of the
proceedings held under subsection 5-7-9B to direct the City Attorney to do any
one or more of the following:
         a.   To institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce, against any
person found in violation of this Article, the fine provided for in Section
5-7-11 below,
         b.   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
            (1)   For an order restraining any person from violating any
provision of this Article,
            (2)   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this Article and the elimination of
violations hereof.
         c.   To petition or institute proceedings with the Department of
Registration and Education for the purpose of causing the Department to revoke,
suspend or refuse to renew the license granted by such Department to any real
estate broker or real estate salesman found to have violated any provision of
this Article.
         d.   In the case of any unlawful housing practice or violation of this
Article by any person in the course of performing under a contract or
subcontract with the State or any political subdivision or agency thereof, or
with the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, to
petition or institute proceedings with such contracting agency for the purpose
of causing it to terminate such contract or any portion thereof, either
absolutely or on condition of compliance with the provisions of this Article.
      3.   The City Council may issue such cease and desist orders and may
direct such action by the City Attorney, as shall be necessary for the
enforcement of this Article.
   D.   Limitation of Time to File Complaints: Any complaint filed hereunder
with the City Council must be filed within thirty (30) days after the alleged
discriminatory practice occurred or it shall be barred. (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-10: REMEDIES
   Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provision of this
Article who has exhausted the remedies provided in subsection 5-7-9B of this
Article may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief
from such violation, including:
   A.   An order compelling compliance with this Article;
   B.   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated any
provision of this Article from the sale, lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance
or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is the subject of such
violation;
   C.   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing,
or any person who, in violation of this Article, refuses or fails to perform
such contract;
   D.   Compensatory damages; and
   E.   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this Article and the elimination of violations thereof.
(Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
5-7-11: PENALTY
   Any person who violates any provision of this Article shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 664, 7-5-94)
ARTICLE 8
WEEDS AND GRASS 1
SECTION:
   
5-8-1: Nuisance Conditions
   
5-8-2: Weeds; Duty To Cut; Noncompliance; Remedy Of City
   
5-8-3: Grass; Duty To Cut; Noncompliance; Remedy Of City
   
5-8-4: Notice Of Lien; Contents; Release
   
5-8-5: Mandatory Injunction
   
5-8-6: Incorporation Of Applicable Statutory Provisions
   
5-8-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-2-8 of this chapter.
5-8-1: NUISANCE CONDITIONS
   Whoever shall suffer or permit any noxious weeds, grass or vegetation to
grow or be upon any lot or premises owned or controlled by him or her shall be
deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance. (Ord. 679, 11-7-1995)
5-8-2: WEEDS; DUTY TO CUT; NONCOMPLIANCE; REMEDY OF CITY
   A.   No owner of real estate shall refuse or neglect to cut weeds when such
weeds have reached a height in excess of six inches (6").
   B.   If any owner permits weeds in excess of six inches (6") in height to
remain standing upon his or her property, the city may cut the weeds or
authorize someone to cut the weeds on its behalf. In such event the provisions
of sections 5-8-4 and 5-8-7 of this article shall be applicable to this
section. (Ord. 679, 11-7-1995)
5-8-3: GRASS; DUTY TO CUT; NONCOMPLIANCE; REMEDY OF CITY
   A.   No owner of real estate shall refuse or neglect to cut grass when such
grass shall have reached a height in excess of six inches (6").
   B.   If any owner permits grass in excess of six inches (6") in height to
remain standing upon his or her property, the city may cut the grass or
authorize someone to cut the grass on its behalf. In such event the provisions
of sections
5-8-4 and
5-8-7 of this article shall be applicable to this section. (Ord. 679, 11-7-
1995)
5-8-4: NOTICE OF LIEN; CONTENTS; RELEASE
   A.   Notice Of Lien; Minimum Charge For Work: If weeds are cut or the
property is mowed by the city or by someone directed to cut weeds or mow on its
behalf, a notice of lien for the cost and expense thereof incurred shall be
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of the county within sixty (60)
days after the cost and expense are incurred. On the first cutting or mowing in
a one year period by the city, the amount charged shall be seventy five dollars
($75.00) per hour. In the event a second cutting or mowing is required by the
city within one year of the first cutting or mowing, the cost shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per hour. In the event the city needs to
conduct a third or subsequent cutting or mowing within one year of the date of
the first cutting or mowing, the cost shall be two hundred twenty five dollars
($225.00) per hour. (Ord. 816, 6-20-2006)
   B.   Contents: The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting
out the following:
      1.    A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and in the case of the second cutting, double said
amount as indicated in subsection A of this section; and in the case of a third
or subsequent cutting, triple said amount as indicated in subsection A of this
section; and
      3.   The date or dates when said cost and expense were incurred. (Ord.
751, 9-4-2001)
   C.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the costs and expenses, the lien shall
be released by the city. (Ord. 679, 11-7-1995)
5-8-5: MANDATORY INJUNCTION
   In addition to all other penalties and remedies provided for in this
article, the city shall have the right to seek and obtain a mandatory
injunction against the owner of any such real estate who is in violation of any
of the provisions of this article, enjoining and ordering him or her to cut
grass and weeds in compliance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 679,
11-7-1995)
5-8-6: INCORPORATION OF APPLICABLE STATUTORY PROVISIONS
   All applicable and pertinent provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-20-7, as heretofore and hereafter amended, are incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 679, 11-7-1995)
5-8-7: PENALTY
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of sections
5-8-2 and
5-8-3 of this article shall be subject to a fine as set forth in section
1-3-7 of this code.
(Ord. 679, 11-7-1995; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
ARTICLE 9
TOBACCO REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   
5-9-1: Definitions
   
5-9-2: Purchase By Minors Prohibited
   
5-9-3: Use And Possession By Minors Prohibited
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS
POSSESSION OF TOBACCO: To have tobacco upon one's person or in close physical
proximity.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any public sidewalks, public thoroughfares, public streets and
alleys, public highways, public parks, any property of a public school or any
other public areas within the city limits of the city of Lanark.
TOBACCO: Any product made from the tobacco plant for the purpose of smoking,
chewing, inhaling and other personal use, including cigars, chewing tobacco,
dipping tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff and cigarettes in any form. (Ord. 750, 9-
4-2001)
5-9-2: PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
purchase tobacco, or to misrepresent their identity or age or use any false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco.
   The penalty for the violation of this section shall be a fine not to exceed
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense and a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second or any subsequent offense. In addition
to or in lieu of a fine or any other penalty assessed upon an admission or
finding of guilt under this section, a final disposition may include community
service, education alternatives or any similar programs. (Ord. 750, 9-4-2001)
5-9-3: USE AND POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess, use or consume tobacco in a public place in the city of Lanark.
   It shall not be a violation of this section for a minor to possess, use or
consume tobacco in a public place in the city of Lanark while in the presence
of his or her parent or legal guardian.
   A violation of this section may result in the confiscation of the tobacco
from the possession of the offender and be punishable by a fine not to exceed
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense and a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second or any subsequent offense.
   In addition to or in lieu of a fine or any other penalty assessed upon an
admission or finding of guilt under this section, a final disposition may
include community service, education alternatives or any similar programs.
   Fines hereunder may be waived if the offender provides proof of enrollment
in and satisfactory completion of a recognized tobacco treatment program. (Ord.
750, 9-4-2001)
ARTICLE 10
CHILD CURFEW ACT
SECTION:
   
5-10-1: Adopted
   
5-10-2: Amendments
5-10-1: ADOPTED
   Under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 555/0.01 et seq., is an act entitled
"child curfew act". Said act is hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as
an ordinance of the city of Lanark incorporating all of the conditions of said
act including the same penalties set forth in said act. (Ord. 759, 4-2-2002)
5-10-2: AMENDMENTS:
   Should said "child curfew act" be amended at any time by the state
legislature, this article shall follow the amended act and the terms of said
amended act shall be adopted and incorporated by reference as is the current
act hereby adopted and incorporated by reference. (Ord. 759, 4-2-2002)
ARTICLE 11
GOLF CARTS AND NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
   
5-11-1: Definitions
   
5-11-2: Vehicle Requirements
   
5-11-3: Restrictions
   
5-11-4: Operation Of Golf Carts/Recreational Off Highway Vehicle/UTV
   
5-11-5: Annual Registration Of Golf Carts/Recreational Off Highway Vehicle/UTV
   
5-11-6: Inspection Of Vehicles
   
5-11-7: Mandatory Insurance
   
5-11-8: Operation Limited To Licensed Drivers
   
5-11-9: Other Laws, Regulations, And Ordinances
   
5-11-10: Use Under The Influence
   
5-11-11: Convictions
   
5-11-12: Penalty
5-11-1: DEFINITIONS
   As used in this chapter, the following words, terms and titles shall have
the following meanings:
   GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervision the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course as
defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-123.9 and 11-1426.1 (a)(2) of the
Illinois Vehicle Code.
   RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE/UTILITY VEHICLE (UTV): Any motorized off
highway device designated to travel primarily off highway, sixty four inches
(64") or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand
(2,000) pounds or less, traveling on four (4) or more nonhighway tires,
designed with a nonstraddle seat and a steering wheel for steering control,
except equipment such as lawn mowers defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-168.8 and 5/11-1426.1(a)(4) of the Illinois Vehicle Code and go-carts.
(Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-2: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
   All vehicles allowed to operate on city streets pursuant to this chapter,
shall be equipped with all of the safety systems and equipment as required by
the Illinois Vehicle Code including: seat belts for every passenger, horn,
brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized
warning devices in the front and rear, a slow moving emblem on the rear of the
vehicle as required in section 12-709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-709, a headlight that emits a white light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a taillamp
that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the
rear, brake lights, turn signals, a windshield, and any and all other safety
equipment required to be installed and operational on such vehicles as set
forth in said statute. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-3: RESTRICTIONS
   All-terrain vehicles (ATV) as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code, go-
carts, off-highway motorcycles, and all other vehicles that do not meet the
requirements set forth in this chapter are not authorized on the roadways of
the City of Lanark. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-4: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS/RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE/UTV
   Subject to the requirements of section 11/1426.1 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1, which are hereby adopted by
reference by the city council of the City of Lanark, and of the provisions of
this chapter, drivers properly licensed to operate motor vehicles on the
roadways of the City of Lanark and who are twenty-one (21) years of age are
allowed to operate golf carts and/or UTVs under this chapter on the roadways of
the City of Lanark, having a posted speed limit of thirty five (35) miles per
hour or less. However, golf carts and/or UTVs are not allowed on the city
sidewalks, Illinois State Route 73 (Broad Street), US Hwy/lllinois State Route
52/64 in the City of Lanark, with the exception that a golf cart/UTV may cross
said routes at a ninety degree (90°) angle. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-5: ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF GOLF CARTS/RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE/UTV
   No vehicle authorized under this title and chapter, shall be operated on any
street or alley in the City of Lanark unless the owner(s) thereof shall have
first registered with the City of Lanark in accordance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Registration of such vehicles shall be administered by the Police
Department of the City of Lanark. An application for registration may be made
on a form prescribed by the City of Lanark. Said form shall include a statement
under oath with penalties of perjury that the vehicle proposed to be registered
meets the definition of the vehicles defined by the state statute or in section
5-11-1 of this chapter and shall be accompanied by an annual registration fee
of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and proof of liability insurance for said
vehicle having at least the same limits of coverage as required from time to
time for motor vehicles under the mandatory insurance law of the State of
Illinois.
   B.   Vehicles registered under this chapter and section shall be issued a
sticker from the City of Lanark which shall be affixed to the rear of the
vehicle and shall be viewable to a police officer from outside of said vehicle.
   C.   The registration of said vehicle shall be effective for a period of one
calendar year and shall be renewed annually on January 1 of each year in the
same manner as the original registration, including the required proof of
liability insurance.
   D.   The registration of said vehicles shall not be transferable in the
event of a change of ownership. A new registration fee and application will be
required of the new owner(s). Operation of any Non-Highway vehicle by a new
owner while using the previous owner's registration sticker shall be a
violation of this Ordinance. No refund of the original registration fee is
allowed in the event of the change of ownership.
   E.   The registration of said vehicles shall be subject to the revocation by
the Lanark Police Department in the event of a violation of the requirements of
section 11-1426.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes,
or any of the provisions of this chapter. A revocation of such registration
shall be made in writing and shall set forth the provision(s) of the state
statute or this chapter that has been violated. No refund of the registration
fee is allowed in the event of the revocation of said permit.
   F.   In the event that the registration of a vehicle is revoked due to a
failure to maintain the required liability insurance or the failure of the
condition of the vehicle in compliance with the state statute or this chapter,
including, but not limited to, maintaining the required safety systems. The
Lanark Police Department may reinstate the registration upon documentation of
reinstatement of the required insurance coverage or of the repair or
modification of the vehicle to cure any deficiencies, as applicable, if the
Department determines that the violation was not intentional and is not likely
to recur. A re-inspection of any vehicle with a revoked registration may be
required at the discretion of the Police Department. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-6: INSPECTION OF VEHICLES
   Vehicles registered, or proposed to be registered, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be subject to inspection before being issued
said registration sticker. The inspection is only required for the first year
of registration or if a sticker lapses beyond 60 days. Vehicle owners may
obtain an inspection form from the City of Lanark Police Department or the
Lanark City Hall, and the vehicle will be inspected by an Officer of the Police
Department. Upon successful completion of the inspection, the permit will be
processed for approval. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-7: MANDATORY INSURANCE
   The owner of any vehicle registered under this chapter shall continuously
maintain liability insurance for said vehicle having at least the same limits
of coverage as required from time to time for motor vehicles under the
mandatory insurance law of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-8: OPERATION LIMITED TO LICENSED DRIVERS
   All persons who operate a vehicle under this chapter within the City of
Lanark must have a valid driver's license, and have such license in their
possession while operating the vehicle. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-9: OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND ORDINANCES
   Vehicles registered under this chapter shall be operated at ail times in
accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, the Rules of the
Road contained therein, and any other laws, regulations, or ordinances
governing the operation of motor vehicles in the City of Lanark as well as the
laws, regulations or ordinances specifically pertaining to vehicles operated
under this chapter and the operation thereof. Operators of Non-Highway vehicles
must obey any lawful instruction from a Police Officer, and must immediately
stop such vehicle when an officer has activated the emergency lights and/or
siren of a police vehicle. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-10: USE UNDER THE INFLUENCE
   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle
authorized under this chapter on a roadway in the City of Lanark while under
the influence of alcohol or drugs, is subject to the provisions of sections 11-
500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes. Further, a violation of the provisions of this section shall be cause
for the City of Lanark to revoke the permit of the authorized vehicle. (Ord.
955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-11: CONVICTIONS
   Two (2) convictions of any authorized user herein of a vehicle authorized
under the provisions of this chapter, for moving violations concerning such
vehicle, shall cause the registration provided for herein to be revoked for at
least one year. It shall be at the discretion of the City of Lanark Police
Department to determine if the registration will be reinstated after the one
year revocation. If the Lanark Police Department denies reinstatement, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the city council. The city council's
decision on reinstatement is final. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
5-11-12: PENALTY
   In addition to the revocation of the registration of a vehicle as provided
in this chapter, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine for each offense, court costs
and the City of Lanark's attorney fees. The provisions hereof for prosecuting
violations of this chapter are not intended in any way to supersede the
provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code involving the operation of said
vehicles within the City of Lanark. (Ord. 955, 8-7-2018)
ARTICLE 12
TRICK OR TREATING ON HALLOWEEN
SECTION:
   
5-12-1: Permissible Hours
5-12-1: PERMISSIBLE HOURS
   Each year trick or treating shall be permissible in the City of Lanark
between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on October 31st in celebration of
Halloween. Said hours shall be in effect each year unless the City Council
passes a resolution for a particular year amending the hours for that
particular year. (Ord 959, 10-16-2018)
ARTICLE 13
CONDUCT IN CITY PARKS AND PARKWAYS
SECTION:
   
5-13-1: Defacing Park Property
   
5-13-2: Molesting Vegetation
   
5-13-3: Throwing Missiles
   
5-13-4: Littering
   
5-13-5: Obstructing Free Use
   
5-13-6: Molesting Birds Or Wildlife
   
5-13-7: Use Of Grounds And Facilities
   
5-13-8: Restroom Facilities
   
5-13-9: Prohibited Language And Conduct
   
5-13-10: Alcohol Use
   
5-13-11: Dogs And Other Domestic Animals
   
5-13-12: Fires
   
5-13-13: Proper Attire Required
   
5-13-14: Firearms And Fireworks
   
5-13-15: Temporary Vacation Of And Prohibition Of Use Of Park Area
   
5-13-16: Park Hours
   
5-13-17: Loud Noise
   
5-13-18: Penalties
5-13-1: DEFACING PARK PROPERTY
   No person shall cut, break, scratch, or mark or in any way injure or deface
any building, fence, pump, lamp, flagpole, construction improvement, facility
or any other feature or property upon or within any park or parkway. (Ord. 979,
9-15-2020)
5-13-2: MOLESTING VEGETATION
   No person shall pick or cut any wild or cultivated flower, or cut, break or
in any way injure or deface any tree, shrub, fungus, or plant within the limits
of any park or parkway; nor carry within or out of any park or parkway any wild
flower, tree, shrub, fungus, plant or any newly plucked branch or portion
thereof, or any soil or material of any kind. These provisions do not apply to
City of Lanark staff and other authorized persons working as part of City of
Lanark approved projects. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-3: THROWING MISSILES
   No person shall throw or cast any stone or any other missile within any park
or parkway. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-4: LITTERING
   No person shall throw, deposit, place or leave in any park or parkway, or
waters therein, any paper, rubbish, waste, cans, bottles or refuse of any kind,
whether or not the same is offensive to the senses or is injurious to health,
except in the receptables therein provided for waste. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-5: OBSTRUCTING FREE USE
   No person shall place or suffer to remain in any park or parkway any goods,
wares, merchandise or other articles, in the nature of any obstruction to the
free use and enjoyment of said park or parkway. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-6: MOLESTING BIRDS OR WILDLIFE
   No person shall rob, injure or destroy any bird's nest within the limits of
any park or parkway, nor air or discharge any air gun, sling-shot, or other
weapon, or throw any stone or other missile at any bird or bird's nest or wild
creature within any park or parkway, nor in any manner capture or kill any bird
or wild creature therein. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-7: USE OF GROUNDS AND FACILITIES
   No person shall play ball, tennis, or other games or sports, upon or within
any park or parkway, except upon ball, tennis, or appropriate athletic grounds
established by the City. No person shall enter upon or use any tennis court, or
other athletic grounds or facilities except for purposes authorized by the
City, acting directly or through its duly authorized officers or agents. The
use of all athletic grounds and facilities shall be subject to such rules and
regulations as may be prescribed by the City for each such athletic ground or
facility. The rules and regulations shall be in writing and made readily
available to the public. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-8: RESTROOM FACILITIES
   No person shall, in any restroom facility, sleep, remain for any period of
time beyond that required to use the facility or enter for the purpose to
engage in any criminal act. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-9: PROHIBITED LANGUAGE AND CONDUCT
   No person shall in or upon any park, parkway, beach, playground, park
facility, or park waters use language that by its very utterance inflicts
injury nor use language or engage in conduct that tends to incite an immediate
breach of the peace; nor shall any person gamble, or intentionally engage in
any indecent, lascivious, lewd or demonstratively offensive conduct. (Ord. 979,
9-15-2020)
5-13-10: ALCOHOL USE
   No person or entity shall serve, dispense or consume any alcohol on park
property except as specifically authorized herein. Alcohol may be served,
dispensed or consumed on park property only pursuant to a permit issued by the
City. Any such permit or authorization for the serving and dispensing of
alcohol shall be conditioned upon the requesting person or entity providing
proof of the existence of adequate insurance coverage as required by its liquor
license and state lay and naming the City of Lanark as an additional insured on
such insurance policy. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person or entity may
serve or dispense alcohol for consumption unless: (1) the person or entity has
obtained all necessary licenses that may be required under the laws of the
State of Illinois and any governing political subdivision; and (2) the person
or entity complies with all applicable laws, rules or regulations promulgated
by the State of Illinois and any governing political subdivision regarding the
serving or dispensing of alcohol for consumption. The City may establish
policies and regulations consistent with this ordinance to govern the serving,
dispensing, and consumption of alcohol for venues, public, and private events.
(Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-11: DOGS AND OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMALS
   No pets of any type shall be allowed in the park. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-12: FIRES
   No person shall start any fire in any park or upon any parkway except that
small fires for culinary purposes may be made by picnic parties in the parks
pursuant to regulations established by the City. Every person who starts any
such fire and every person starting or using such fire shall completely
extinguish fire or fires before leaving such park and shall dispose of any
residue or refuse therefrom in an appropriate container. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-13: PROPER ATTIRE REQUIRED
   No person ten (10) years of age or older shall intentionally expose his or
her own genitals, pubic area, buttocks or female breast below the top of the
areola, with less than a fully opaque covering in or upon any park or parkway.
This provision does not apply to theatrical, musical, or other artistic
performances upon any park or parkway where no alcoholic beverages are sold.
(Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-14: FIREARMS AND FIREWORKS
   No person shall fire or discharge any cannon, fowling piece, pistol,
revolver or firearm of any description, or fire, explode or set off any squib,
cracker or other thing containing powder, or other combustible or explosive
material, within the limits of any park or parkway; excepting exhibitions or
fireworks given under the direction or by permission of the City or its proper
officers. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-15: TEMPORARY VACATION OF AND PROHIBITION OF USE OF PARK AREA
   If in the judgment of the Lanark Police Department the conduct of persons
occupying an area of the park of parkways, or is likely to cause harm to those
persons or others, the Lanark Police Department may temporarily for a period of
twenty-four (24) hours order vacation of such area and prohibit use of that
area by posting notice of such temporary vacation and prohibition. (Ord. 979,
9-15-2020)
5-13-16: PARK HOURS
   Except as otherwise provided in the Code, no person shall be in or remain in
any park between the hours of 10:00 pm and 6:00 am, unless taking part in an
activity conducted by, or pursuant to a permit issued by the City. This section
shall not apply to those who, without delay, are traveling upon those
established walks, paths, and parkways which are illuminated with artificial
lighting. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-17: LOUD NOISE
   A.   No person shall play, use, or operate any radio, tape or disk player,
musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the production
of sound in such a manner, considering the time and place and the purpose for
which the sound is produced, as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet or
repose of a person or person of ordinary sensibility;
   B.   The play, use or operation of any radio, tape or disk player, musical
instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the production of sound
in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of fifty (50) feet from
said machine or device shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section;
   C.   When sound violating this section is produced by a machine or device
that is located in or on a vehicle, the vehicle's owner is guilty of the
violation; provided, however, that if the vehicle's owner is not present, the
person in charge of the vehicle at the time is guilty of the violation;
   D.   This section shall not apply to sound produced by the following:
      1.   Amplifying equipment used in connection with activities conducted
by, or pursuant to a permit issued by the City; or
      2.   Anti-theft device; or
      3.   Machines or devices for the production of sound on or in an
authorized emergency vehicle. (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
5-13-18: PENALTIES
   Every person convicted of a violation of this provision shall be punished by
a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 979, 9-15-2020)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC PROPERTY AND PUBLIC USE AREAS
ARTICLE 1
LANARK CITY CEMETERY
SECTION:
   
6-1-1: Board Established
   
6-1-2: Qualifications For Board
   
6-1-3: Oath Of Office
   
6-1-4: Quorum, Place Of Meeting And Time
   
6-1-5: Powers Of The Board
   
6-1-6: Officers
   
6-1-7: Bond
   
6-1-8: Vacancy
   
6-1-9: Board Responsibilities
   
6-1-10: Secretary-Treasurer Responsibilities
   
6-1-11: Compensation Of Board Members (Rep. by Ord. 994, 2-21-2023)
   
6-1-12: Cemetery Named
   
6-1-13: Plat
   
6-1-14: Sale Of Lots
   
6-1-15: Cemetery Deeds
   
6-1-16: Execution Of Deeds
   
6-1-17: Payment For Deeds
   
6-1-18: Limitation On Use Prior To Payment
   
6-1-19: Trust Fund
   
6-1-20: Cost Of Lots (Rep. by Ord. 994, 2-21-2023)
   
6-1-21: Cemetery Sexton
   
6-1-22: Duties Of Cemetery Sexton
   
6-1-23: Authority Of Cemetery Sexton
   
6-1-24: Maintaining Peace In Cemetery (Rep. by Ord. 987, 8-17-2021)
   
6-1-25: Restrictions
   
6-1-26: Penalties
6-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED
   There is hereby created and established a cemetery board of managers for the
city of Lanark.
   A.   The board shall consist of five (5) managers appointed by the mayor
with the advice and approval of the Lanark city council.
   B.   The managers shall hold and serve their office for a period of two (2)
years. Although said terms identify a final date upon which the term shall
expire, it is specifically provided that for any reason said reappointment not
be made, said term shall continue until said members resign, or until further
action is taken by the mayor with approval of the Lanark city council to
provide replacement, successors or to remove members, as the case may be.
Therefore all members whose terms may have expired shall continue in office
until replaced.
   C.   The board of managers shall meet at least three (3) times a year and
shall operate in accordance with state statutes and any revisions thereof 1 and
according to all applicable ordinances of the city of Lanark. (Ord. 807, 1-17-
2006; amd. Ord. 985, 6-15-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-52.1-2.
6-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS FOR BOARD
   A member appointed to the cemetery board of managers must be a registered
voter and have resided for one year within the city of Lanark preceding the
appointment. The appointed member must not have been in arrears in the payment
of any tax or other indebtedness due the city, and must not have been convicted
in any court located in the United States of any infamous crime, bribery,
perjury, or other felony. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-3: OATH OF OFFICE
   All members of the board of managers for the Lanark city cemetery, before
entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall take an oath of office that
they will faithfully execute and discharge the duties required of them before
some other officer for the city authorized to administer the same. (Ord. 807,
1-17-2006)
6-1-4: QUORUM, PLACE OF MEETING AND TIME
   A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, and they may hold general or special meetings in the
city council room at city hall or another place as may be designated by the
board of managers, at such times as they may by order direct. (Ord. 807, 1-17-
2006)
6-1-5: POWERS OF THE BOARD
   The cemetery board of managers shall have powers and authority conferred
upon them by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-52.1-1 subject however to the
limitations of the ordinances of the City of Lanark. The board of managers may:
   A.   Make such bylaws and rules as may be necessary for their own governing
and for the full and complete execution of their powers and duties for control
and operation of the cemetery.
   B.   Pass regulations establishing the duties, privileges and obligations of
lot owners and visitors to the cemetery.
   C.   Select, hire and compensate employees, including but not limited to a
cemetery sexton. The cemetery board of managers will supervise all cemetery
employees with regard to all activities.
   D.   Have direct charge of the business and expenditures made on the
cemetery. Sums paid by the cemetery board of managers to the City for payment
of the Sexton and/or other City of Lanark maintenance employees and/or other
cemetery employees shall be paid by the City of Lanark Treasurer pursuant to
the directions of the Lanark City Council. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 985,
6-15-2021; Ord. 987, 8-17-2021; Ord. 994, 2-21-2023)
6-1-6: OFFICERS
   As soon as convenient after the appointment of a new member(s), the board of
managers shall meet and organize by selecting members to be President, Vice-
president and Secretary-treasurer. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 987, 8-17-
2021)
6-1-7: BOND
   The secretary-treasurer, before entering upon his duties as such, shall file
with the city clerk a bond with two (2) or more securities to be approved by
the city council, said bond to be in a sum double the amount of money (all the
money) in the hands of the secretary-treasurer of said cemetery board of
managers on the date of his last annual report. The condition of said bond
being that he will pay out the money belonging to the Lanark city cemetery only
under the order of the cemetery board of managers or the city council, that he
will faithfully account to the city council for all monies coming into his
hands as such secretary-treasurer, and that at the end of his term of office he
will deliver all money and effects which may have come into his hands as such
secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of managers to his successor in
office after said successor in office shall have filed his bond under the
provisions of this article and said bond has been approved. (Ord. 807, 1-17-
2006)
6-1-8: VACANCY
   Any vacancy arising in the board shall be filled in the same manner as if
the office had become vacant by expiration of the term of office of the former
member, except that the member appointed to fill the vacancy shall hold the
office by that appointment only to the end of the term he shall have been
appointed to fill. Appointments to the board shall be made so that the whole
membership of said board will not be changed at any one time. (Ord. 807, 1-17-
2006)
6-1-9: BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
   Responsibilities for the cemetery board of managers include, but are not
limited to:
   A.   Managing, controlling and supervising the cemetery. All applicable
ordinances passed by the Lanark city council governing the cemetery shall
control the board of managers in all its actions.
   B.   Establishing and maintaining all rules, regulations, policies and
practices for the care and operation of the cemetery.
   C.   Receiving all monies from the sales of cemetery lots and all gifts and
legacies to said cemetery in the name of the Lanark Cemetery Association. Any
gift or legacy of real or personal property may be converted to cash. All
cemetery property and funds, whether received by sale of lots or by gifts or
legacy, shall be prudently invested and the income thereof shall be applied by
the board to the care and management of the cemetery.
   D.   Not expending monies of the cemetery funds in advance of receipts
thereof, or incurring any debts on account of said cemetery, without the prior
consent of the Lanark city council.
   E.   Appraising the lots as shown on the various recorded plats of the
cemetery, fixing the sale price of cemetery burial lots, and reappraising those
lots that remain unsold from time to time as they deem necessary. (Ord. 807, 1-
17-2006)
6-1-10: SECRETARY-TREASURER RESPONSIBILITIES
   Responsibilities for the secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of
managers include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Keeping a permanent record of all proceedings of the cemetery board of
managers in a book provided for such purpose.
   B.   Having custody of all money and property received in trust by the board
of managers, and paying out the same only upon the written order of the board,
signed by at least two (2) of them, and keeping permanent books of record of
all such trust funds and of all receipts and disbursements thereof, and for
what purposes received and disbursed.
   C.   Having custody of all general fund finances and paying out money only
on the order of the cemetery board of managers. All monies received from any
source, including money from the sale of cemetery lots, from donations, from
appropriations, from the city treasury or by any official of the city of Lanark
which shall arise in any way from said cemetery shall be turned over by the
person receiving it to the secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of
managers.
   D.   Filing each year with the city clerk at the first regular meeting of
the city council in the month of May a full and complete report of all money
received and paid out by him during the fiscal year (April 1 through March 31)
first preceding the filing of such report and of all assets in his hands as
secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of managers, which report shall be
presented to the city council at said regular meeting. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-11: COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS
(Rep. by Ord. 994, 2-21-2023)
6-1-12: CEMETERY NAMED
   All of those tracts of land heretofore and now used as cemetery grounds, and
any additions thereto in the city of Lanark which have been dedicated as
cemetery grounds, are hereby rededicated for that purpose and shall continue to
be known collectively as the "Lanark city cemetery" and shall be used for that
purpose and subject to all applicable ordinances of the city of Lanark and to
such rules and regulations as may be hereafter passed by the cemetery board of
managers. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-13: PLAT
   All lots in the cemetery shall be described by reference to the plat or
plats of the same that now are or may hereafter be recorded in the office of
the recorder of deeds of and for Carroll County, Illinois. (Ord. 807, 1-17-
2006)
6-1-14: SALE OF LOTS
   Application for burial lots within the Lanark city cemetery shall be made to
the secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of managers, who shall maintain
the records containing the lists of all lots in the cemetery with their numbers
and their proper description in accordance with the plat or plats together with
columns for the entry, when sold, the name of the purchaser, the date of the
sale, and the amount received for each lot. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-15: CEMETERY DEEDS
   Upon payment of a sum of money as determined by the cemetery board of
managers to the Lanark Cemetery Association, the secretary-treasurer of the
board of managers shall fill out, properly execute and grant a deed for the
purchase of a lot or multiple lots as described by plat and located within the
Lanark city cemetery. The cemetery deed when granted to the purchaser for such
lot or lots shall be signed by the secretary-treasurer of the board of managers
and countersigned by another manager of the board under the corporate seal of
the city of Lanark. The cemetery deed may be of the following form:
   CEMETERY DEED
 
Know all men by these presents, that the City of Lanark, in the County of
Carroll and the State of Illinois, for and in consideration of the sum of
              dollars to said City of Lanark paid by                   hath
this day granted, bargained and sold, and by these presents doth grant,
bargain, sell, and convey unto the said                       and to
                         heirs and assigns forever, all the following described
lot, piece, or parcel of land in the Lanark City Cemetery, the same being
situated in the City of Lanark, in the County of Carroll and State of Illinois,
said premises being more particularly described as follows, to wit: Lot number
                in Block number           for a more full description of which
reference may be had to the recorded plat of said Cemetery in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of and for Carroll County, Illinois.
 
To have and to hold the said premises unto the said                 and to
               heirs and assigns, for the purpose of a burial ground forever,
and for no other purpose, and subject to all ordinances and rules now in force
or which may hereafter be passed or adopted by the City of Lanark, governing
and regulating said cemetery.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I                     Mayor of the City of Lanark, for and
in behalf of said City, have hereunto set my hand, and caused the seal of said
City to be affixed at the City of Lanark, this                              day
of                            A.D., 20            .
 
   (L.S.)                           Mayor.
 
   Attest.                          City Clerk.
 
(Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-16: EXECUTION OF DEEDS
   All deeds conveying any lot or lots, piece or parcel of land in the Lanark
city cemetery shall be made and executed subject to the provisions of all
ordinances, rules or regulations now in force or which may hereafter be passed
or adopted for the government or regulation of the cemetery. (Ord. 807, 1-17-
2006)
6-1-17: PAYMENT FOR DEEDS
   Any person wishing to purchase a lot or lots within the Lanark city
cemetery, and who shall be unable to make full payment at the time of
application, shall be permitted to execute and deliver a note to the secretary-
treasurer of the cemetery board of managers for the purchase of such lot or
lots within the Lanark city cemetery, with any security to be approved by the
cemetery board of managers, payable not to exceed three (3) months after a
determined date, and shall be entitled to a deed for such lot or lots purchased
upon full payment of such note. Under no circumstances shall the board be
required to execute a deed for any lot or lots until the same has been fully
paid for. It shall be the duty of the secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board
of managers to cause to be collected when due, any note which may be executed
for a lot or lots within the Lanark city cemetery and to account for the
proceeds thereof to the cemetery board of managers. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-18: LIMITATION ON USE PRIOR TO PAYMENT
   No person shall bury or attempt to bury any dead body in any lot in said
cemetery, until he shall have paid in full for such lot to the Lanark Cemetery
Association, or until the payment therefor shall have been secured as
hereinbefore provided. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-19: TRUST FUND
   A.   All monies received by the secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of
managers, except money received as a trust fund, shall be held by him as a
general fund out of which to pay the current expenses of the management and
operation of said cemetery; provided, that whenever said general fund, in the
opinion of the secretary-treasurer, has a surplus that exists in excess of what
is needed to manage and operate said cemetery, the secretary-treasurer shall
see that said excess shall be added to the trust fund established for cemetery
purposes.
   B.   The Lanark cemetery board of managers is hereby appointed to act as
trustee over the sums presently held in trust on behalf of the Lanark city
cemetery. The trustees shall invest said funds in certificates of deposit or in
such other appropriate investments which the trustees wish to undertake. Should
the trustees desire to make investments other than in treasury bills,
certificates of deposit, bank accounts, or other investments of such nature
that guarantee protection of the principal invested, they shall first inform
the city council of the city of Lanark of said proposed investments. (Ord. 807,
1-17-2006)
6-1-20: COST OF LOTS
(Rep. by Ord. 994, 2-21-2023)
6-1-21: CEMETERY SEXTON
   A cemetery sexton shall be hired by the cemetery board of managers. The
salary of the cemetery sexton shall be fixed by the cemetery board of managers
and shall be paid from the general cemetery funds. The cemetery sexton shall
abide by the rules and regulations required of City employees as presented in
the Employee Handbook. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 985, 6-15-2021; Ord.
987, 8-17-2021)
6-1-22: DUTIES OF CEMETERY SEXTON
   A.   Having charge of plat of the cemetery and pointing out any of the lots
or parts of lots that are unoccupied and for sale at the request of any person
wishing to purchase.
   B.   Consulting with lot owners and visitors and rendering them any
assistance and advise as is best able to be given.
   C.   Being responsible for the mowing of the grass, cutting or spraying of
the weeds, and the trimming of any bushes, shrubs or trees.
   D.   Servicing, maintaining and performing minor repair work on lawn
trimmers, mowing equipment and other cemetery owned equipment.
   E.   Removal of excess earth from new graves and using the same toward
filling in any older and sunken graves or depressions.
   F.   Performing any ordinary and minor repair work necessary to maintain
buildings, walkways, driveways and other property as directed by the board of
managers.
   G.   Preventing any unauthorized burials and enforcing any violations or
offenses within the cemetery.
   H.   Any other duties determined by the Cemetery board of managers.
   I.   Under direction/supervision of the City maintenance manager, assist
with maintenance tasks for the City, outside of cemetery duties. Cemetery
duties are the first priority for the sexton. The City will reimburse the
Cemetery fund for any salary expenses resulting from work done by the sexton
for the City not related to the cemetery. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 985,
6-15-2021; Ord. 987, 8-17-2021; Ord. 994, 2-21-2023)
6-1-23: AUTHORITY OF CEMETERY SEXTON
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist the cemetery sexton or a
cemetery board member(s) in the discharge of his duties or to refuse or neglect
to obey his lawful directions or to be found discharging firearms in said
cemetery, or defacing or destroying any tree, shrub, stone, stake, post, fence,
monument, vault or other fixture, building or thing of value or ornament, or
trespass in any other manner in said cemetery or the approach thereto, or
trespass on any grave in said cemetery. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006; Ord. 987, 8-17-
2021)
6-1-24: MAINTAINING PEACE IN CEMETERY
(Rep. by Ord. 987, 8-17-2021)
6-1-25: RESTRICTIONS
   Lot owners are forbidden to plant shrubbery upon their lots. Lot owners are
forbidden to bury anything other than corpses of human beings and the usual
accompaniments upon their lots. Visitors are forbidden to walk in said cemetery
other than in aisles and roadways. Any person, whether lot owner or employee of
a lot owner or any other person, shall not be permitted to dig any grave, mow
any lot, fill up any lot or to do work in the Lanark city cemetery, other than
the cemetery sexton or his assistants, without written permission of the
secretary-treasurer of the cemetery board of managers. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
6-1-26: PENALTIES
   Any person who wilfully violates any of the provisions of sections
6-1-18 and
6-1-23 of this article shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each
violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 807, 1-17-2006)
ARTICLE 2
WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   
6-2-1: Establishing Contract
   
6-2-2: Rules And Regulations
   
6-2-3: Requirements For Joining The Water System
   
6-2-4: Person Defined
   
6-2-5: Fees For Attachment
   
6-2-6: Revocation Of Permit
   
6-2-7: Rates For Water Service
   
6-2-7-1: Definitions
   
6-2-7-2: Rates And Charges Established
6-2-1: ESTABLISHING CONTRACT
   The rules, regulations and rates, hereinafter named, shall be considered a
part of the contract with every person who is supplied with water through the
water system of the city; and every such person, by taking water, shall be
considered to express his consent to be bound thereby; and when any of them is
violated, or such others as the city council or city clerk may hereafter adopt,
the water shall be cut off from the building or place of such violation,
although two (2) or more parties may receive water through the same pipe, and
shall not be let on again except by the order of the city clerk, and on payment
of the expenses of shutting it off and letting it on, and such other as the
city clerk shall determine, and a satisfactory understanding with the party
that no further cause of complaint from the party shall arise, in case of such
violation the said city clerk shall have the right to declare any payment made
for the water by person committing such violation to be forfeited, and the same
shall thereupon be forfeited. (Ord. 577, 1-17-1984)
6-2-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS
   The following rules and regulations for the government of water takers,
licensed plumbers and others are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Every person desiring a supply of water must make an application
therefor to the city clerk, in such form as may be prescribed by them for that
purpose. Blanks for such application will be furnished at the office of the
city clerk. The application must state truly and fully all the uses to which
the water is to be applied; no different or additional use will be allowed,
except by permission obtained from said city clerk. Not more than one house or
consumer shall be supplied by one tap, except by special permission. (Ord. 577,
1-17-1984)
   B.   (Rep. by Ord. 779, 1-20-2004)
   C.   All bills are to be paid promptly when due. However, the city clerk is
allowed to enter into negotiations to resolve payment issues for water, sewer
and garbage bills for those residential property owners who may fall behind due
to unusual circumstances. Such unusual circumstances shall include medical
expenses, other hardships, identity theft, and other reasonable difficulties
preventing immediate payment. The city clerk shall have leeway to enter into
installment payments and partial payments that allow catch up of the total due,
but in no case may the payment responsibilities be forgiven or payment be
permanently waived when the water is turned on at the residence. (Ord. 818, 9-
19-2006)
   D.   The water will not be turned into any house or service pipe except upon
the order of the city clerk, or his duly authorized agents, nor until the
applicant shall have paid the rent due for the current term; and plumbers are
strictly prohibited from turning the water into any service pipe, except upon
the order or permission of the city clerk or his duly authorized agents. This
rule shall not be construed to prevent any plumber admitting water to test
pipes.
   E.   No consumer shall supply water to other families, or suffer them to
take it off their premises; nor after water is introduced into any building or
upon any premises, shall any person make, or employ any plumber or other person
to make, any tap or connection with the pipes upon the premises for alteration,
extension or attachment, without permission from the city clerk.
   F.   The city clerk shall have the right to order a meter to be applied to
any service pipe, wherever he deems it advisable, and collect meter rates for
water, and the consumer shall be allowed the same privilege by paying the cost
of the meter and the expense of setting the same and furnishing a place where,
in the opinion of the superintendent of public works or his designated
representative, such meter will be safe from frost or other damage and
accessible for examination, and such meter so set shall be approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works or his designated representative.
   G.   All persons using water shall keep the hydrants, taps, hose, water
closets, urinals, bath or other fixtures allotted to their use, closed except
when obtaining water for use, and shall be responsible for any damage or injury
that may result to others from the improper use of said water.
   H.   All house boilers shall be constructed with one or more air holes near
the top of the inlet pipe, and be sufficiently strong to bear the pressure of
the atmosphere under vacuum, the stop cocks and other appurtenances must be
sufficiently strong to bear the pressure and ram of the water in the mains. All
persons taking the water shall keep their own service pipes, stop cocks and
apparatus in good repair, and protected from frost, at their own risk and
expense and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water. It is expressly
stipulated by the said City and the Superintendent of Public Works or his
designated representatives that no claim shall be made against them, or of the
City, by reason of the breaking or freezing of any service pipe or service
cock; or, if from any cause the supply of water should fail, or from damage
arising from shutting off water to repair mains, making connections or
extensions, or from any other purpose that may be deemed necessary; and the
right is hereby reserved to cut off the supply of water at any time, any permit
granted or regulation to the contrary notwithstanding.
   I.   Service pipes intending to supply two (2) or more distinct premises or
tenements, and where only one stop is used, the person controlling the same
must pay the water rent of all the parties who are thus supplied, as separate
water bills will not be made.
   J.   When the water has been turned off from any consumer, he shall not turn
it on, nor permit it to be turned on, without the written consent of the City
Clerk.
   K.   Every person taking water supplied through the water system of the City
shall permit the Superintendent of Public Works or his designated
representative, at all hours of the day, between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., to enter their premises or buildings to examine the
pipe and fixtures, and the manner the water is used; and they must at all
times, frankly and without concealment, answer all questions put to them
relative to its consumption.
   L.    Hose larger than three-quarters inch (3/4") will not be permitted,
except upon additional charge.
   M.   No hose shall be used in any case unless it shall have been properly
applied for and allowed by the City Clerk.
   N.   Hose for sprinkling yards, gardens and streets, or washing windows or
sidewalks, must be confined to the fair application for those purposes without
excessive or unreasonable use, and to the premises of the party. This rule not
to apply to market gardens, nurseries and greenhouses. Water shall be furnished
for use in market gardens, nurseries or greenhouses at meter rates, with
privilege of use at all times except at such times as shall be especially
directed by the City Clerk, under authority reserved by subsection H. of this
Section.
   O.   In sprinkling streets, each water taker must confine himself to his own
premises and front thereof.
   P.   Yard fountains shall not be used more than six (6) hours per day, and
only between April 1 and November 1, except by special permission and upon
payment of additional charges, the service pipe of fountain, out of doors, must
be provided with stop cocks under the control of the Superintendent of Public
Works or his designated representative. The right is reserved to suspend the
use of fountains and hose for sprinkling streets, yards and gardens, whenever
in the opinion of the Superintendent of Public Works, the public exigency may
require it.
   Q.   All pipe to be used must be of a material and of the size adequate for
the type of service being installed and must be installed in a manner which
will prove adequate to undertake the service being installed. All decisions as
to quality of material, type of installation being made, substances used in
piping and other questions of this nature shall be approved by the
Superintendent of Public Works or his designated representative.
   R.   Every service pipe must be laid sufficiently waiving to allow not less
than one to one and one-half feet (1 1/2') extra length, and in such manner as
to prevent rupture by settlement.
   S.   No person, except the tappers, having special permit of the City Clerk,
or persons in their service and approved by them will be permitted under any
circumstances, to tap the distributing pipe, or insert stop cocks or ferules
therein; and the kind and size of connections with the mains shall be that
specified in the permit or order.
   T.    Pipes must always be tapped on the top and in no case at or within six
inches (6") from the hub.
   U.   All service pipe must be laid sufficiently below the surface of the
ground so that the pipe will remain at all times below front level. In all
cases the depth must be sufficient to prevent rupture by freezing.
   V.   Every service pipe must be provided with a stop and waste cock for each
consumer, easily accessible, and so situated that the water can be conveniently
shut off and drained from the pipes. Stopcocks shall be of the pattern
prescribed by the superintendent of public works or his designated
representative.
   W.   Unless otherwise permitted, stopcocks shall be placed in the service
pipe on the edge of the sidewalk near the curb line and protected by an iron
pipe or box reaching from the top to the service pipe, of suitable size to
admit a stop key for turning on or off the stop; and also with metallic cover,
having the letter "W" marked thereon, visible and even with the pavement and
plankings.
   X.   In making excavations in streets or highways, for the laying of pipe,
or making repairs, the plans or paving stone and earth removed must be
deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public,
and provide for the passage of water along the gutters.
   Y.   No person shall leave any excavation, made in any street or highway,
open at any time without barricades, and during the night warning signals must
be maintained at such excavations.
   Z.   After service pipes are laid, in refilling the opening, the earth must
be laid in layers of not less than nine inches (9") in depth and each layer
rammed or puddled to prevent settlement. This work, together with the replacing
of the sidewalks, ballast and paving must be done so as to make the street as
good as before it was disturbed, and to the satisfaction of the superintendent
of public works or his designated representative. No opening of the streets for
the tapping of the mains will be permitted when the ground is frozen.
   AA.   Applicants for water will be charged from the center of the street for
all service pipe and trenches without regard to location of the mains, and the
superintendent of public works or his designated representative shall have the
power to make such arrangements with the plumbers, or others, as they may deem
it expedient to carry this clause into effect.
   BB.   No hydrant, except the public drinking fountains, shall be placed
within the limits of any street, unless such hydrant is securely closed and
protected against general use. No drinking fountain shall be erected for public
use, which has openings by which it can be used as a source of domestic supply.
   CC.   If proprietors of lumberyards, manufactories, halls, stores,
elevators, warehouses, hotels or public buildings (regular customers of water
from the works) wish to lay large pipes with hydrants and hose couplings, to be
used only in case of fire, they will be permitted to connect with the street
mains, at their own expense, upon application to the city clerk, and under
their directions, and will be allowed the use of the water, for fire purposes
only, free of charge.
   DD.   Within forty eight (48) hours after completing any attachment or
connection, the plumber or pipefitter shall make full return of the ordinary
and special uses to which the water is designed to be applied, under any permit
granted from the city clerk, with a description of the apparatus and
arrangements for using the water in every case, and any other particulars that
may be called for. The water will not be turned on to any premises until
complete returns are made by the plumber. (Ord. 577, 1-17-1984)
   EE.   When a multi-unit building zoned C1 or C2 is used for the sole purpose
of commerce where all units are serviced by a single connection, each unit is
charged service fees unless a written letter of intent to use multiple units as
a single business under a single name is submitted and approved by the city
council. If the said unit or units are again used for a different business
purpose, the owner must notify the city clerk within five (5) business days and
will be charged additional service fees. (Ord. 830, 11-6-2007)
6-2-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR JOINING THE WATER SYSTEM
   Every person desiring to connect or attach any water pipes with the water
system of the city or desiring to tunnel, excavate, dig or open any street,
parkway or alley in the city for the purpose of connecting with, repairing or
attaching to, or tapping the waterworks system of the city shall file a written
request for a permit with the city clerk, together with a certificate of
liability insurance issued to the excavating machine operator who has been
employed to do the work. The city clerk shall file the certificate of liability
insurance, the application for a permit and an estimate of the work to be done.
All requirements listed under Section 6-3-3 Building Sewers And Connections
shall also apply to the Water system. (Ord. 1011, 3-18-2025)
6-2-4: PERSON DEFINED
   "Person" shall mean person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
(Ord. 577, 1-17-1984)
6-2-5: FEES FOR ATTACHMENT
   The city clerk shall issue a permit or permits, to connect or attach or
repair any water lines or sewer lines connected to the city water system or to
tunnel, excavate, dig or open a ditch in any street, parkway or alley in the
city for the purpose of connecting with, or attaching to, or repairing, or
tapping said water system and/or sewer system: (Ord. 697, 12-3-1996)
   A.   When a new residence that has not previously received water and sewer
services from the city is connected to the city water and sewer system,
attachment fees of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for tapping into the
water system and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for connecting to the
sanitary sewer system shall be assessed for a total of five hundred dollars
($500.00). This fee shall only apply to single-family residences. (Ord. 818, 9-
19-2006)
   B.   All new connections to the city water and sewer system other than
single- family residences, be they multi-family residences, commercial
buildings, etc., shall have the following attachment fees and requirements:
      1.   An attachment fee of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for
tapping into the city water system with a tap size up to and including one inch
(1") in diameter for the supply and use of city delivered water.
      2.   An attachment fee of seven hundred dollars ($700.00) when requiring
the rental of tapping machinery and tools necessary to tap into city cast iron
water mains with all taps greater than one inch (1") in diameter for the supply
and use of city delivered water.
      3.   An attachment fee of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for
connecting to the sanitary sewer system.
      4.   All newly constructed multi-family dwellings or multi-unit
commercial or industrial buildings shall have separate city, not private, water
service shutoffs for each unit. There shall be separate fees due and payable to
the city clerk for each service hookup unless waived or reduced by action of
the city council.
      5.   An owner of an existing multi-unit building that does not have
separate shutoffs for each unit may request additional connection. Attachment
fees specified in this section apply unless tapping into existing connection,
in which case the fee is fifty dollars ($50.00) per man hour with a minimum of
a two (2) man crew plus the cost of pipe and shutoff valve. (Ord. 830, 11-6-
2007)
   C.   For all repairs or modifications other than new attachments as set
forth in subsections A and B of this section, the city shall charge a fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for excavating in a parkway, be it for water or
sewer purposes. (Ord. 818, 9-19-2006)
   D.   Except for all new services as outlined in subsections A and B of this
section, the city shall charge the amount of the actual cost to the city for
excavating into or across a street or alley for water or sewer purposes. The
applicant shall submit the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to be taken as
bond to be applied to the actual cost. In the event the actual cost is less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), the balance shall be returned to the
applicant. In the event the cost is over five hundred dollars ($500.00), the
applicant shall be billed for the extra amount.
   E.   Except for all new services as outlined in subsections A and B of this
section, the city shall charge the sum of sixty dollars ($60.00), plus one
dollar ($1.00) per foot for all footage on the city property in excess of sixty
feet (60') to attach to, or repair, or tap water mains on the city water or
sewer systems.
   F.   Upon the payment of said fee or fees, the city clerk shall issue a
permit to the person making the application be it for water or sewer. In
addition, the requirements of section 6-3-3 of this chapter shall also apply
for sewer and/or wastewater treatment hookups. (Ord. 697, 12-3-1996)
6-2-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT
   The city council may revoke any permit heretofore granted for any one or
more of the following reasons:
   A.   For noncompliance by the grantee with the directions and instructions
of the inspector in charge of the supervision of said work for said city;
   B.   For the failure of the grantee to warn and protect pedestrians and
persons using streets, parkways and alleys during the progress of said work;
   C.   For the failure of the grantee to compensate said City for any damages
or injuries to said waterworks system or to any person or property resulting
from work of the grantee.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 577, 1-17-1984)
6-2-7: RATES FOR WATER SERVICE
6-2-7-1: DEFINITIONS
CONSUMER: Each and every person, copartnership, corporation and association who
is the owner or occupant of any building or property, who conducts a separate
business or profession therein or thereon and each and every family who owns or
occupies a dwelling or apartment building or other property.
DWELLING PURPOSES: Living quarters of a consumer.
WATER SERVICE: Means and includes the following:
   A.   The water service offered and extended by the City.
   B.   The use of water service offered by any consumer.
   C.   The use of water service by any consumer who is the owner or occupant
of any building or property, which said building or property has water service
lines running through, across or by said building or property upon a street,
alley or property contiguous thereto.
   D.   The use by any consumer of the water service provided by the City, who
does not have a sewer line running through, across or by the property occupied
or owned by him and who does not connect with and make use of any sewer line.
(Ord. 577, 1-17-1984)
6-2-7-2: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED
   There shall be and are hereby fixed and established rates and charges for
use and service of the waterworks of the City, subject to other provisions of
this section, as follows:
   A.   Basic User Rate, Rates Without Meters, Per Month: The rate for all
consumers located within the corporate limits and connected to City waterworks
without a meter shall be twenty eight dollars twenty cents ($28.20) per month.
The rate for all residential consumers age sixty five (65) or older, who have
provided sufficient proof of age to the Utility Clerk and are located within
the corporate limits and connected to City waterworks without a meter, shall be
twenty five dollars sixty five cents ($25.65) per month. In the event a new
connection is made or a party’s water is shut off for a period of time, the
rate shall be prorated in half month periods. Each half month period shall be
at a rate of one-half (1/2) of the applicable monthly amount listed above, and
a consumer shall be required to pay for each half month period in which said
consumer has water service in operation. A person vacating a property for an
extended period in which no water is used, shall be entitled not to pay for
that period only if they notify the Utility Clerk and the water is turned off
by a City employee for said period. A fee to reconnect shall be charged to turn
the water back on. Said amount is set forth in this section. Billings shall be
sent to nonmetered consumers for water, sewer and garbage fees on a monthly
basis.
      The charges for water services set forth in this subsection shall be
effective as of February 1, 2025, for unmetered users. All payments due
February 20, 2025, and thereafter shall be based on the rates set forth above.
The payments shall then be monthly beginning February 1, 2025. All new
applications shall be prorated as set forth previously in this subsection to
the nearest one-half (1/2) month.
      The City reserves the right to attach a water meter to any service pipe
whenever the City shall deem it expedient.
   B.   Rates With Meters, Per Month: The rate to be charged to all consumers
using a meter to measure water consumption shall be as follows:
      1.   One thousand (1,000) gallons or less shall be sixteen dollars
($16.00) per month or part thereof.
      2.   The next five thousand (5,000) gallons of use shall be three dollars
($3.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons or part thereof.
      3.   The next fourteen thousand (14,000) gallons of use shall be two
dollars ($2.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons or part thereof.
      4.   All additional usage shall be one dollar twenty five cents ($1.25)
per one thousand (1,000) gallons or part thereof.
      5.   A Multi-User Meter is defined as a building such as an apartment
building or other structure with a single meter for the entire building but
more than one unit such as different apartments or different businesses located
in the property. The meter rate to be charged for properties with multi-user
meters shall be as follows: the first unit shall be billed at the standard
individual meter rate; and the billing for additional units shall be $17.00 for
water per unit. This change shall also apply with regard to multi-user meters
for sewer fees with the first unit being billed at the standard meter rates as
set forth in the municipal code and additional units being billed at $18.00 per
unit. Garbage and Capital Improvement Program (CIP) charges shall remain at the
current standard rate per unit. The changes set forth in this modification
shall be effective for billing beginning July 1, 2025 and all months subsequent
thereto.
      The charges for water services set forth in this article shall be
effective as of February 1, 2025, for metered users. All payments due February
20, 2025, and thereafter shall be based on the rates set forth above. Monthly
payments shall be due on the twenty first of each month. All new applications
shall be prorated as set forth previously in this article to the nearest one-
half (1/2) month or two (2) week period. The City reserves the right to attach
a water meter to any service pipe whenever the City shall deem it expedient.
   C.   Billing Procedure:
      1.   Bills: Charges for water/sewer use shall be billed monthly for both
metered and unmetered users. These bills may be paid in a monthly manner or
they may be
         paid annually. The dates on which the bills are due shall be set forth
in subsequent paragraphs of this section.
         The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of
water/sewer service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the
services on said premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the
City only upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and users
of the service are jointly and severally liable therefor to the City.
      2.   Due Date And Late Fee:
         a.   Due Date: The due date for payments shall be the twentieth (20th)
of the month. When the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday,
such due date will be automatically extended to include the first full business
day following. When paid in person at
            City Hall, a payment is considered timely if made for the full
amount printed on the bill by twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on the twenty first
(21st) of the month. When a customer mails any payment in the full amount of a
bill, and such payment is received at the utility’s office not more than two
(2) full business days after the due date printed on the bill, the customer
shall be deemed to have made timely payment. If the postmark of the payment, in
which case, the payment shall be considered past due if the payment is
postmarked after the due date printed on the bill.
         b.   Late Fee: An initial bill will be sent which shall indicate that
a late fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be charged if the bill is not paid
by twelve o’clock (12:00) noon on the twentieth (20th) of the month. No
additional notices of the late fee shall be required, but the late fee will
automatically attach after the twentieth of each month.
      3.   Delinquent Bills: In the event charges for water/sewer service are
not paid within thirty (30) days after the due date of the bill for such
service, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent,
and thereafter such delinquency charges shall constitute liens upon the real
estate for which such services are supplied, and the Utility Clerk is hereby
authorized and directed to file sworn statements showing such delinquents in
the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Carroll County, Illinois, and the filing
of such statements shall be deemed notice of the lien for the payment of such
charges of such services.
         A procedure is hereby established for discontinuance of water/sewer
service for failure to pay water/sewer charges in a timely manner. In addition,
a procedure is established for reconnection of water/sewer service after late
payment of water/sewer charges. Said procedures shall be as follows:
         a.   On the thirty first (31st) day after water/sewer charges become
due and payable, the bill shall be deemed delinquent.
         b.   A written notice of delinquency and a notice of intention to
disconnect water service shall be mailed or be delivered to the property by the
Lanark Police Department. If possible this shall be personally served on people
occupying the property. If no one is home or they are unable to personally
serve the persons occupying the property, the copy shall be posted prominently
near the front door of the property by the Police Department. In addition, if a
landlord does not live at the residence, service will be made on the landlord
by first class mail, if the City has on file the landlord’s name and address.
It shall be the responsibility of the landlord to keep the City aware of this
information.
         c.   Five (5) days after delivery, or eight (8) days after mailing, of
said notice the Utility Clerk shall inform the Public Works Manager to
disconnect water service to the property the following business day.
         d.   Residential customers have the opportunity to make arrangements
to retire the debt by periodic payments, referred to as a deferred payment
agreement, unless this customer has failed to make payment under such a plan
during the past twelve (12) months. The terms and conditions of a reasonable
deferred payment agreement shall be determined jointly by the Utility Clerk and
one member of the Water/Sewer Committee after consideration of the following
factors, based upon information available from current records or provided by
the customer:
            (1)   Size of the past due account;
            (2)   Customer’s ability to pay;
            (3)   Customer’s payment history;
            (4)   Reason for the outstanding indebtedness; and
            (5)   Any other relevant factors relating to the circumstances of
the customer or applicant’s service.
         e.   Upon payment of all outstanding services, plus a reconnection
charge, delinquent accounts which have been disconnected shall be reconnected.
In the event the reconnection is made during normal business hours of between
eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and five o’clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday,
and the account is within the corporate limits of the City, the reconnection
charge in addition to the amount of the delinquent account shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00). If said reconnection is made at other than normal business
hours, including, but not limited to, during a holiday or weekend, and the
account is within the corporate limits of the City, the reconnection charge
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event the reconnection is made
during normal business hours of between eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and five
o’clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, and the account is outside the
corporate limits of the City, the reconnection charge in addition to the amount
of the delinquent account shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). Should said
reconnection be made at other than normal business hours, including, but not
limited to, during a holiday or weekend, and the account is outside the
corporate limits of the City, the reconnection charge shall be one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
         f.   Whenever a water/sewer service is discontinued whether the reason
for the discontinuance is for nonpayment of outstanding fees due the city or at
the request of the customer there shall be a discontinuance charge. In the
event the discontinuance is made during normal business hours between eight
o’clock (8:00) A.M. and five o’clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, and the
account is within the corporate limits of the city, the discontinuance charge
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). If said discontinuance is made other than
normal business hours including but not limited to during a holiday or weekend
and the account is within the corporate limits of the city the discontinuance
charge shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00). In the event that the
discontinuance is made during normal business hours between eight o’clock (8:
00) A.M. and five o’clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday, and the account is
outside the corporate limits of the city, the discontinuance charge shall be
one hundred dollars ($100.00). Should said discontinuance be made at other than
normal business hours including but not limited to during a holiday or weekend,
and the account is outside the corporate limits of the City, the discontinuance
charge shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      4.   Fees Outside Corporate Boundaries: In the event wastewater/sewer
service is being provided by the City to a residence or other connection
located outside the corporate boundaries of the City, the fees charged for said
service shall be double the amount charged for residents for a similar service.
In the event the property located outside the corporate boundaries is metered,
the rate shall be double what the residence’s meter rate shall be. In the event
the rates are changed at any time in the future, the nonresident rate shall be
reviewed and possibly increased.
   D.   Administrators Of Waterworks Revenues: It is hereby made the duty of
the Utility Clerk to collect all charges in connection therewith and all
revenues and monies derived from the operation of the waterworks system shall
be held by said Utility Clerk separate and apart from all other funds of the
City, and all of said sums, without any deductions whatsoever, shall be
delivered to the City Treasurer immediately upon the receipt of the same.
      The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks
system, and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of said system
as the same may be delivered to him, and deposit the same in a separate fund
designated as the “Waterworks Fund of the City of Lanark” and said Treasurer
shall administer said fund in every respect in the manner provided by the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-139-1 et seq., and all laws
amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto.
      Said City Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the waterworks system, and at
regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and the disbursements of the
system.
   E.   Fees Outside Corporate Boundaries: In the event water or sewer services
are supplied by the City Waterworks or Sewer Department to a residence or other
water connection outside the boundaries of the City, the fees charged for both
water and sewer shall be double the fees that would be charged for the same
connection inside the community. If the water or sewer fees are a set dollar
rate, they shall be double that rate. In the event they are a metered rate,
they shall be double the amount the meter reading would normally indicate. In
addition, if the residence is occupied by senior citizens, no senior citizens’
discount shall apply, and the bill shall be figured at double the regular rate
without the application of said discount.
   F.   User Charge System Review: The adequacy of the water service charge
shall be reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public
accountants for the City in their annual audit report. The water service charge
shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or
OM&R costs.
      1.   Access To Records: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, or
its authorized representative, shall have access to any books, documents,
papers and records of the City which are applicable to the City system of user
charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the loan
agreement and rules for said loan agreement or any loan issued by the State to
the City.
      2.   Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges in this Code shall be made available to a user
within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written request for such. Any
disagreement over the method used or in the computations thereof shall be
remedied by the City Council within forty five (45) days after notification of
a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies. (Ord. 924, 5-17-2016; amd.
Ord. 964, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 977, 9-15-2020; Ord. 991, 8-16-2022; Ord. 992,
11-15-2022; Ord. 998, 12-12-2023; Ord. 1009, 11-19-2024; Ord. 1014, 6-3-2025)
ARTICLE 2A
USE OF GROUND WATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
   
6-2A-1: Definitions
   
6-2A-2: Prohibition; Exemption
   
6-2A-3: Penalty
   
6-2A-4: Memorandum Of Understanding
6-2A-1: DEFINITIONS
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 836, 7-15-2008)
6-2A-2: PROHIBITION; EXEMPTION
   Except for the uses or methods in existence before the effective date of
this article, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply, ground water
from within the corporate limits of the city of Lanark, as a potable water
supply, by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is
hereby prohibited. This prohibition does not include the city of Lanark. (Ord.
836, 7-15-2008)
6-2A-3: PENALTY
   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to a
fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. (Ord. 836, 7-
15-2008)
6-2A-4: MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
   The mayor of the city of Lanark is hereby authorized and directed to enter
into a memorandum of understanding with the Illinois environmental protection
agency ("Illinois EPA") in which the city of Lanark assumes responsibility for
tracking all sites that have received no further remediation determinations
from the Illinois EPA, notifying the Illinois EPA of changes to this article,
and taking certain precautions when siting public potable water supply wells.
(Ord. 836, 7-15-2008)
ARTICLE 3
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   
6-3-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
   
6-3-2: Private Sewage Disposal
   
6-3-3: Building Sewers And Connections
   
6-3-4: Use Of The Public Sewers
   
6-3-5: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
   
6-3-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
   
6-3-7: Penalties
6-3-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Article.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owners of all the houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the City
and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
City, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this Article, within ninety (90) days
after official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one
hundred feet (100') of the property line. (Ord. 575, 1-17-1984)
6-3-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
   A.   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of subsection 6-3-2D of this Section, the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of
this Section.
   B.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system
the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City Clerk. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the City (such
form on file in the office of the City Clerk) which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as deemed
necessary by the City Clerk. A permit and inspection fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
   C.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent of Public Works. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the City Clerk when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within
twenty four (24) hours of the receipt of written notice by the City Clerk.
   D.   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   E.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection 6-3-1D of this
Section, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this Article, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   F.    he owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the City.
   G.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City Health
Officer.
   H.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt. (Ord. 575, 1-17-1984)
6-3-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
   A.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Clerk and depositing
with the Clerk $500 in the form of check, cash or money order, with said
deposit held to ensure timely and appropriate completion of restoration work.
Failure on the part of a property owner or contractor to obtain said permit
prior to disturbing a public sewer or appurtenance thereof shall result in a
$500 fine to said property owner and/or contractor. Said property owner and/or
contractor will additionally be responsible for any and all costs incurred by
the City to restore City property that exceed the amount of said fine.
      The permit application referenced in Subsection A above shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent by the City Clerk or the Lanark Maintenance Supervisor. A permit and
inspection fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid to the City at the
time the permit application is filed.
      In addition, at the time the written request for permit is submitted a
certificate of liability insurance issued to the excavating machine operator
who is employed to do the work shall be submitted. The Clerk shall file the
certificate of liability insurance together with the application for a permit.
   B.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with Federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent State and local standards. (Ord. 575, 1-17-
1984)
   C.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   D.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
City from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   E.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   F.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new building only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent of Public
Works, to meet all requirements of this Article.
   G.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the City. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   H.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved in accordance with subsection B of this Section, and discharged to the
building sewer.
   I.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   J.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the City Clerk before
installation.
   K.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City Clerk
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
of Public Works or his representative.
   L.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. It
is the responsibility of the contractor and or home owner to put barricades in
place. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City and
as described in the required diffing permit referenced in subsection A. above.
(Ord. 1011, 3-18-2025)
6-3-4: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
   A.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the City Clerk. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged on approval of the City Clerk, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent of Public Works that such wastes can harm either
the sewers sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent of Public Works will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F), (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees (150°F).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent of Public Works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent of Public Works as necessary after treatment
of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal, or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving
waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent of Public
Works in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Superintendent of Public Works in
compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.2 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the Superintendent of Public Works in compliance with applicable State and
Federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this Section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26,
1978, and any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Public Works may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent of Public
Works may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection K of this Section.
If the Superintendent of Public Works permits the pretreatment or equalization
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the City, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   F.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent of Public Works they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the City,
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   G.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
   H.   Each industry discharging industrial waste shall be required to install
a control manhole and, when required by the City, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the City. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall
be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this Article and any special
conditions for discharge established by the City or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the City, but no less than once per year the
industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater
discharge to assure that compliance with the Federal, State and local standards
are being met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and
laboratory analyses to the City at such times and in such a manner as
prescribed by the City. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements,
analyses, and reporting required by the City. At such times as deemed necessary
the City reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   J.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of wasters
and wastes to which reference is made in this Article shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.
   K.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance
with Article 4 of this Chapter, by the industrial concern, provided such
payments are in accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user charge
system.
6-3-5: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
6-3-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
   A.   The Superintendent of Public Works and other duly authorized employees
of the City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, bearing the proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this Article. The City or its representative
shall have no authority to inquire into processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   B.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A above, the Superintendent of Public Works or duly authorized
employees of the City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the City employees and the City shall indemnify
the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain conditions as required in subsection 6-3-4I of this
Article.
   C.   The Superintendent of Public Works and other duly authorized employees
of the City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
6-3-7: PENALTIES
   A.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article except
Section
6-3-5 shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. The City may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this Article.
   B.   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in subsection A above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall become
liable to the City by reasons of such violation. (Ord. 575, 1-17-84)
ARTICLE 4
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
   
6-4-1: Definitions
   
6-4-2: Wastewater Service Charges
   
6-4-3: Billing Procedure
   
6-4-4: Revenues and Accounts
   
6-4-5: Access to Records
   
6-4-6: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this Article shall be as follows:
   CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
   GOVERNMENT, FEDERAL:
   Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   Federal Act: The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 466 et seq) as amended,
(Pub. L. 95-217).
   Federal Grant: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II-Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
   GOVERNMENT, LOCAL:
   Approving Authority: The Council of the City of Lanark.
   City: The City of Lanark.
   GOVERNMENT, STATE:
   Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   State Act: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   State Grant: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the Federal Act.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
   Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
City. It shall also include sewers within or outside the City boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharged into the City sanitary
system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with City funds.
   Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   TREATMENT:
   Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   Wastewater Treatment: An arrangement of devices and structure for treating
Works wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution
control plant".
   TYPES OF CHARGES:
   Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding.
   Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
   Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in Section
6-4-2 of this Article.
   Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in Section
6-4-2 of this Article and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge,
the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   USER TYPES:
   Commercial User: Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
   Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the City representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   Industrial Users: Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   Institutional/Governmental User: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with Federal, State and local governments.
   Residential User: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, permanent multi-family dwellings.
   User Class: The type of user "residential", "institutional/governmental",
"commercial", or "industrial" as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
   BOD (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20 C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
   Effluent Criteria: As defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
   Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharge,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: (a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more
per average work day; or (b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the
flow carried by the Municipal system receiving the waste; or (c) has in its
waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amount as defined in standards issued under
section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or (d) is found by the permit issuant
authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly
owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment
works or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
   Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in one thousand (1,000) ml of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and
wastewater analysis. 487
   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.21
pounds of suspended solids.
   Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
   Sewage: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
   Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   Suspended Solids SS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   Unpolluted Water: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
   Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
6-4-2: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
   A.   Basis for Wastewater Service Charges: The wastewater service charge for
the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the City
shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement, applicable surcharges and a debt service charge.
      The debt service charge is computed as a charge per one thousand (1,000)
gallons.
      The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by water
meters and/or sewage meters for users having water or sewage meters (or based
on estimated water usage for users not having meters) for wastes having the
following normal domestic concentrations:
      1.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20o C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of two hundred (200) mg/l.
      2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty (250) mg/l.
      It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement and
shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimated wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         b.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         c.   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by volume,
suspended solids and BOD.
         d.   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to wastewater facility categories by volume, suspended solids, and
BOD.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         f.   Compute surcharge costs per pound per one thousand (1,000)
gallons in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
            A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by the water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the two hundred (200) mg/l and two
hundred fifty (250 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS respectively. Subsection
F of this Section specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge. All such
users shall be metered.
            The adequacy of wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not
less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the City in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in
operation and maintenance costs including replacement costs.
            The users of wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater treatment operation,
maintenance and replacement.
   B.   Measurement of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges for metered users shall be the metered water consumption
read to the lowest even increments of one hundred (100) gallons. The volume of
flow used for computing basic user charges for unmetered users shall be water
consumption based upon estimated usage. The estimated annual usage for each
unmetered user shall be calculated by subtracting the total annual metered
usage for all metered users from the total water annually supplied by the City
Water Department and dividing by the number of unmetered users. (All unmetered
users are assumed to discharge the same amounts of wastewater.)
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Superintendent of Public Works for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Superintendent of Public Works if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from metered water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the City. (Ord. 576, 1-17-1984)
   C.   Basic User Rate: Effective February 1, 2025, a basic user rate of fifty
four dollars eighty cents ($54.80) per month for unmetered users located within
the corporate limits of the City is hereby established. A basic user rate of
fifty one dollars thirty five cents ($51.35) per month for unmetered
residential users age sixty five (65) or older located within the corporate
limits of the City and who have provided sufficient proof of age to the City
Clerk is hereby established. The rate for metered users shall be on a monthly
basis and shall be as follows:
      Up to one thousand (1,000) gallons used per month shall be thirty dollars
($30.00). If a metered user uses between zero and one thousand (1,000) gallons,
the rate shall be sixty nine dollars ($69.00).
      The next five thousand (5,000) gallons shall be ten dollars ($10.00), so
if a metered user uses above one thousand (1,000) gallons and six thousand
(6,000) gallons or less, the rate shall be an additional ten dollars ($10.00).
      The next fourteen thousand (14,000) gallons shall be five dollars
($5.00), so if a metered user uses from six thousand one (6,001) gallons to
twenty thousand (20,000) gallons.
      All metered users using above twenty thousand (20,000) gallons shall pay
an additional two dollars ($2.00) per one thousand (1,000) gallons used or part
of an additional one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      All meters shall be read monthly.
   D.   Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
 
Per pound of BOD $0.238
Per pound of SS  0.061
 
   E.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent of
Public Works and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
   F.   Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge
shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CU + CS
      Where,
      CW = Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period.
      CU = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement
(subsection C of this section).
      CS = Amount of surcharge (subsections D and E of this section).
      Unmetered users with a property containing multiple users (such as a
business and an apartment) shall pay the sum of the monthly charges for each
use.
   G.   Provision For Adjusting User Charge: Any user having a water meter who
can demonstrate that a substantial portion of the metered water is not
discharged to a public sewer may apply to the City Council for an equitable
adjustment of the basic user charge. In adjusting the sewer use charge, the
City Council, at its discretion, may require any of the following:
      1.   Separate water meters for water entering and not entering the public
sewers.
      2.   A sewage meter.
      3.   Satisfactory evidence of the actual proportion of the metered water
that is discharged to the public sewer.
      Any costs associated with meeting these requirements shall be borne by
the user.
   H.    Effective Date Of Rates: The rates and service charges established for
user charges in subsections D through F of this section shall be effective as
of September 1, 1999, for metered and unmetered users.
   I.    Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for user charges in subsections C through F of this section shall
be made available to a user within fifteen (15) days of receipt of a written
request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations
thereof shall be remedied by the City Clerk within thirty (30) days after
notification of a formal written appeal filed outlining the discrepancies.
   J.    Multiple Service Uses: All other ordinances of the City of Lanark
notwithstanding, in the event a resident of the City of Lanark occupies the
same building both for their primary residence and for use as a beauty shop or
beauty parlor, they shall be billed only a single billing for water and
wastewater service to said residence and beauty shop or beauty parlor. In the
event the water and/or wastewater charges are raised at any time in the future,
the total charged for a residence and beauty shop or beauty parlor in a single
building shall be the same as for a single residence.
   K.    Service Shut Off By Owner: All other ordinances of the City
notwithstanding, in the event a resident of the City directs that their water
service be shut off so that they are not drawing water through the City’s
system, their fee for water and sewer services shall be zero dollars zero cents
($0.00) for that period of time in which they are not receiving water service.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to reduce or eliminate any water
disconnect or water hookup charges to be charged by the City now or at any time
in the future.
   L.    Vacant Homes: All vacant homes shall be billed for water, sewer, and
garbage unless affirmative action is taken by the homeowners and water has been
shut off. The resumption of water service shall continue to require a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) reconnection fee. Any landowner failing to have the water
shut off shall continue to be charged the normal sewer and garbage rates,
together with the normal water rates.
   M.   Multi-User Meter Charges: Where a property in the City of Lanark is
provided water and sewer services by the City of Lanark and the charge for
water and sewer services is based on a water meter installed on the property
and the property has multi users, any other provision of the code
notwithstanding, the bill for the property shall provide that the first unit on
the property be billed at the standard, individual meter rate. Each additional
unit will be charged as follows: Water: $17.00 per unit; Sewer: $18.00 per
unit. Garbage and Capital Improvement Program (CIP) will be charged at the
current standard rates per unit. (Ord. 637, 7-7-1992; amd. Ord. 650, 5-4-1993;
Ord. 726, 7-20-1999; Ord. 729, 8-17-1999; Ord. 756, 1-15-2002; Ord. 779, 1-20-
2004; Ord. 923, 5-17-2016; Ord. 964, 7-16-2019; Ord. 977, 9-15-2020; Ord. 991,
8-16-2022; Ord. 1014, 6-3-2025)
6-4-3: BILLING PROCEDURE
   A.   Bills: Charges for water/sewer use shall be billed monthly for both
metered and unmetered users. These bills may be paid in a monthly manner or
they may be paid monthly. The dates on which the bills are due shall be set
forth in subsequent paragraphs of this section.
The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of water/sewer
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the services on said
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the City only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and users of the service
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the City. (Ord. 923, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Notice Of Rates: Each user will be notified by the City in conjunction
with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad
valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment services,
including the financial information of subsection
6-4-2F of this article.
   C.    Delinquent Bills: In the event charges for water/sewer service are not
paid within twenty (20) days after the due date of the bill for such service,
such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and
thereafter such delinquency charges shall constitute liens upon the real estate
for which such services are supplied, and the City Clerk is hereby authorized
and directed to file sworn statements showing such delinquents in the Office of
the Recorder of Deeds of Carroll County, Illinois, and the filing of such
statements shall be deemed notice of the lien for the payment of such charges
of such services.
A procedure is hereby established for discontinuance of water/sewer service for
failure to pay water/sewer charges in a timely manner. In addition, a procedure
is established for reconnection of water/sewer service after late payment of
water/sewer charges. Said procedures shall be as follows:
      1.   All payments made for water/sewer charges within twenty (20) days of
their becoming due shall be considered timely.
      2.   On the twenty first day after water/sewer charges become due and
payable, a ten percent (10%) fee shall be attached to said water/sewer charges
and shall become an additional charge.
      3.   Thirty (30) days after water/sewer charges become due and payable, a
written notice of delinquency and a notice of intention to disconnect water
service shall be mailed to all delinquent accounts. Said notice shall provide
that a public meeting to consider disconnection of said delinquent accounts
will be held at the next city council meeting not less than thirty (30) days
after said charges became due and payable.
      4.   At said next council meeting after which a minimum of thirty (30)
days have passed since said water/sewer charges became payable, the council
shall consider the disconnection of all accounts delinquent in excess of thirty
(30) days. All persons concerned with said delinquent accounts shall have the
right to address the council and to be heard and to offer explanation or
otherwise to comment on said delinquent accounts.
      5.   Following said city council meeting, not less than thirty (30) days
after said water/sewer accounts have become due and payable, the council may,
if it feels in the best interest of the city, make a preliminary determination
to disconnect the water service of the delinquent accounts. After the
preliminary determination of a disconnection, an additional hearing shall take
place. Notice of the additional hearing prior to disconnection shall be served
upon the occupant of the property to be disconnected. This shall be undertaken
by a city police officer or by some other party designated by the city council
to serve said disconnection notice which shall be done by personally delivering
said disconnection notice to the occupants of the property subject to
disconnection. In the event no person is occupying the property or no person
can be found on the property, notice shall be served by posting on the
property. The second hearing to determine the disconnection shall take place
not less than ten (10) days after the personal service of the notice of
disconnection. In the event the property is occupied by a tenant and the
landlord is known to the city, the landlord may also receive a copy of said
notice by first class mail. At the second hearing following said personal
service or posting service as set forth in this paragraph, the city may
determine to disconnect the water services of said property. Immediately
following a decision to disconnect at said second hearing by the city council,
said water connection shall be disconnected. Both the first hearing and the
second hearing shall take place at a regularly scheduled city council meeting.
      6.   Upon payment of all outstanding services, plus a reconnection
charge, delinquent accounts which have been disconnected shall be reconnected.
In the event the reconnection is made during normal business hours of between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through Friday,
the reconnection charge in addition to the amount of the delinquent account
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). If said reconnection is made at other
than normal business hours, including, but not limited to, during a holiday or
weekend, the reconnection charge shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   D.   Fees Outside Corporate Boundaries: In the event wastewater/sewer
service is being provided by the city to a residence or other connection
located outside the corporate boundaries of the city, the fees charged for said
service shall be double the amount charged for residents for a similar service.
In the event the property located outside the corporate boundaries is metered,
the rate shall be double what the residence's meter rate shall be. In the event
the rates are changed at any time in the future, the nonresident rate shall be
reviewed and possibly increased. (Ord. 768, 3-4-2003)
6-4-4: REVENUES AND ACCOUNTS
   A.    Revenues: It is hereby made the duty of the city clerk to collect all
charges in connection therewith and all revenues and monies derived from the
operation of the sewer system shall be held by said city clerk separate and
apart from all other funds of the city, and all of said sums, without any
deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the city treasurer immediately
upon the receipt of the same. The city treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the sewer system, and all other funds and monies incident to the
operation of said system as the same may be delivered to him, and deposit the
same in a separate fund designated as the "sewer fund of the city of Lanark"
and said treasurer shall administer said fund in every respect in the manner
provided by the provisions of division 139 of article II of the Illinois
municipal code of 1961, approved May 29, 1961, and all laws amendatory thereof
and supplementary thereto.
   B.   Accounts: The city treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals he shall cause to be made an audit by
an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system. In addition to the customary operating
statements, the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and
operating expenses of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost,
to indicate that sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and
capital amounts required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery
system do in fact meet the regulations. In this regard, the financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.    Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.    Number of users connected to the system.
      5.    Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged. (Ord. 576, 1-17-1984)
6-4-5: ACCESS TO RECORDS
   The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized
representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of
the city which are applicable to the city system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
state grant. (Ord. 576, 1-17-1984)
6-4-6: PENALTY
   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less
than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 576, 1-17-1984)
ARTICLE 5
TREE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   
6-5-1: Definitions
   
6-5-2: Creation And Establishment Of A City Tree Board
   
6-5-3: Term Of Office
   
6-5-4: Compensation
   
6-5-5: Duties And Responsibilities
   
6-5-5-1: District Forester
   
6-5-6: Operation
   
6-5-7: Street Tree Species To Be Planted
   
6-5-8: Spacing
   
6-5-9: Street Tree Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
   
6-5-10: Street Tree Distance From Street Corner, Driveway Or Fire Hydrant
   
6-5-11: Utilities
   
6-5-12: Public Tree Care
   
6-5-12-1: Tree Planting/Removal Permit
   
6-5-12-2: Adjacent Property Owners
   
6-5-12-3: Trees Located In The Path Of Construction Or Development
   
6-5-13: Topping Of Trees Prohibited
   
6-5-14: Pruning, Corner Clearance
   
6-5-15: Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property
   
6-5-16: Removal Of Stumps
   
6-5-16-1: Planting, Removal, And Destruction Of Trees And Shrubs
   
6-5-16-2: Tree Appraisal
   
6-5-17: Interference With The Lanark City Tree Board
   
6-5-18: Review By The Lanark City Council
   
6-5-18-1: Public Utilities
   
6-5-19: Penalties For Violation
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS
CITY TREE PLAN: An official and comprehensive plan for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, and removal or disposition of trees and shrubs
located along streets, in the parks, and other public areas.
DEVELOPMENT: Any work upon any property in the city that requires a building
permit, a demolition permit, a zoning variance, or other city approval that
involves excavation, landscaping, or construction within the drip line area of
a tree necessary for primary access to structures located on or to be
constructed upon a property parcel where there exists no other feasible means
of access.
DRIP LINE AREA: The area within X distance from the perimeter of the trunk of
the tree at four and one-half feet (41/2') (54 inches) above natural grade,
where X equals a distance ten (10) times the diameter of the trunk as measured
four and one-half feet (41/2') (54 inches) above natural grade.
EXCESSIVE PRUNING: Removal of more than one-fourth (1/4) of the functioning
leaf and stem area of a tree in any twelve (12) month period, or removal of
foliage so as to cause the unbalancing of a tree.
HAZARDOUS: An imminent hazard or threat to the health or safety of persons or
adjacent property.
HISTORIC VALUE: A tree may be designated to be of "historic value" if it is an
outstanding specimen of a desirable species, one of the largest or oldest trees
within the city of Lanark, or a very rare species and one of a kind for this
geographical area of the United States.
PARKWAYS: The street rights of way existing between private property and the
nearest adjacent paved street, or land lying between property lines on either
side of all avenues, streets, or ways within the city of Lanark.
PRIVATE TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other wood like vegetation
located on private property, which may project or exist over or outside the
property line.
PUBLIC ACCESS TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, hedge, and all other wood like
vegetation located in established parks, plazas, cemeteries, trail rights of
way, or street rights of way bordering city property, and other areas within
the city's jurisdiction to which the public has access.
REMOVE: Any of the following: a) complete removal, such as cutting to the
ground or extraction, of a tree; b) taking any action leading to the
foreseeable death of a tree or permanent damage to its health, including, but
not limited to, excessive pruning, cutting, girdling, poisoning, overwatering,
unauthorized relocation or transportation of a tree, or trenching, excavating,
altering the grade, or paving within the drip line of the tree.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
(3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-2: CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF A CITY TREE BOARD
   There is hereby created and established a Lanark city tree board for the
city of Lanark which shall consist of five (5) volunteer citizens and residents
of the city, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
Lanark city council. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-3: TERM OF OFFICE
   The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the mayor shall be three
(3) years except that the term of two (2) of the members appointed to the first
board shall be for only one year and the term of two (2) members of the first
board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, their successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of the term.
   Although said terms identify a final date upon which the term shall expire,
it is specifically provided that for any reason said reappointment not be made,
said term shall continue until said members resign, or until further action is
taken by the mayor with approval of the Lanark city council to provide
replacement, successors or to remove members, as the case may be. Therefore all
members whose terms may have expired shall continue in office until replaced.
(Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-4: COMPENSATION:
   Members of the Lanark city tree board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-5: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
   It shall be the responsibility of the Lanark city tree board to study,
investigate, counsel, monitor, and foster community tree care for the city of
Lanark in the manner as listed below:
   A.   The Lanark city tree board will develop and periodically review and/or
update the official city tree plan. As a part of the process of reviewing the
city tree plan, the Lanark city tree board shall update as necessary a list of
trees considered to be "desirable" and "undesirable" for guidance in the
planting and replanting of private trees, public access trees, and street trees
within the city of Lanark.
   B.   The Lanark city tree board will develop and periodically review and/or
update guidelines for the maintenance of trees on public property. These
guidelines address normal and required pruning, treatment or removal of
diseased or insect infected trees, and recommended protection and/or additional
support for structurally defective trees. Both "acceptable" and "unacceptable"
tree maintenance practices and procedures developed by the Lanark city tree
board are to be documented in the city tree plan.
   C.   The Lanark city tree board shall approve and oversee the planting or
removal of any public access tree or street tree within the city of Lanark.
   D.    The Lanark city tree board will develop an annual work plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of
public access trees and street trees.
   E.   The Lanark city tree board is responsible for the identification of
those areas where private trees, public access trees, or street trees may pose
a threat, a danger, or hazardous situation to public safety for any reason and
require immediate attention to correct.
   F.    The Lanark city tree board shall serve as a resource for the
identification and need of any equipment required to effectively maintain,
remove, and recycle trees, shrubs, and other wood like vegetation. (Ord. 781,
3-2-2004)
6-5-5-1: DISTRICT FORESTER
   The district forester shall be available as an on call field consultant to
the Lanark city tree board and the Lanark city council in the performance of
their duties and responsibilities as listed in this section 6-5-5. (Ord. 781,
3-2-2004)
6-5-6: OPERATION
   The Lanark city tree board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-7: STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED
   A.   Acceptable Trees On Parkways: The Lanark city tree board shall make and
update whenever necessary a list of "desirable" trees and have it available for
the public to reference. One copy of the "desirable" tree list shall be filed
with the Lanark city clerk and another copy shall be filed in the Lanark city
library indicating which trees may be planted on the parkways of the city of
Lanark.
   B.    Unacceptable Trees On Parkways: The Lanark city tree board shall make
and update whenever necessary a list of "undesirable" trees and have it
available for the public to reference. One copy of the "undesirable" tree list
shall be filed with the Lanark city clerk and another copy shall be filed in
the Lanark city library indicating which trees may not be planted on the
parkways of the city of Lanark. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-8: SPACING
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with two (2) mature size
classifications for trees as determined and documented by the Lanark city tree
board and listed per section 6-5-7 of this article. No trees may be planted
closer together than the following: small trees, twenty five feet (25'); large
trees, forty feet (40'); except in special plantings designed or approved by a
landscape architect. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-9: STREET TREE DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK
   The distance a street tree may be planted from the curb or curb line and
sidewalk will be in accordance with the two (2) mature size classifications of
trees as listed per section 6-5-7 of this article. No tree may be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small tree, one and five-
tenths feet (1.5'); large tree, three feet (3'). (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-10: STREET TREE DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNER, DRIVEWAY, OR FIRE HYDRANT
   No street tree shall be planted closer than thirty feet (30') of any street
corner as measured from the point of the nearest intersecting curbs or curb
lines. No street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fire
hydrant.
   No conifer (evergreen) tree shall be planted any closer than forty five feet
(45') from any street corner, or near any driveway where it could obstruct the
view of the street and oncoming traffic. The same is true for trees that have a
bushy growing style. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-11: UTILITIES
   No street trees, other than those species listed as small trees per section
6-5-7 of this article, may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. (Ord.
781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-12: PUBLIC TREE CARE
   The city of Lanark shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   The Lanark city tree board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its
nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest.
   Any tree or shrub or part thereof that has fallen for whatever reason across
any public property shall be removed as soon as possible so as not to create an
obstruction. Any tree or shrub identified by the Lanark city tree board to pose
a potential hazardous situation shall receive immediate attention to abate the
problem. Examples where growth of a tree or shrub may create a dangerous
situation is when: a) traffic control or parking signs are obstructed, b) the
view of motor vehicle operators is obstructed within the public right of way or
traffic lane, c) a tree or shrub obstruction interferes with the passage of
persons or vehicles on sidewalks or streets, or d) light reflected from a
streetlight is obstructed. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-12-1: TREE PLANTING/REMOVAL PERMIT
   To facilitate approval by the Lanark city tree board for any individual,
corporation or association desiring to plant or remove a public access or
street tree, the individual, corporation or association shall complete and file
an application for a tree planting/removal permit with the city clerk of
Lanark. Such application shall be in writing on a form provided by the city of
Lanark.
   Approval or denial of the application for a tree planting/removal permit
shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date of application. Any applicant
denied approval of an application for a tree planting/removal permit by the
Lanark city tree board may request to appear before the Lanark city council and
be heard for reconsideration. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-12-2: ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS
   Adjacent property owners may obtain a tree planting/removal permit from the
Lanark city tree board to plant or remove street trees adjacent to their
property. Upon approval the selection and location of any street tree to be
planted by an adjacent property owner shall be in accordance with sections
6-5-7 through
6-5-11 of this article.
   Adjacent property owners may prune or trim street trees so long as pruning
or trimming is done in a manner consistent with "acceptable" arboricultural
practices and procedures as documented by the Lanark city tree board. Property
owners may place and maintain vegetation or plants located within the drip line
area of a street tree so long as excessive trenching or excavating of soil is
not required that would damage or harm the root area of the tree.
   Property owners are encouraged to water or irrigate street trees adjacent to
their property, especially during periods of extended dry weather conditions,
unless water conservation measures have been imposed by the city of Lanark
during such periods. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-12-3: TREES LOCATED IN THE PATH OF CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT
   Any tree located on a parkway, public right of way, or utility easement area
where major construction work must be performed to install or rehabilitate
underground utilities will be evaluated by the Lanark city tree board. The
Lanark city tree board will then determine whether construction would most
likely result in the death of the tree and should be removed and destroyed, or
temporarily replanted elsewhere, or if said tree is of historic value or one of
a kind then left in place with extra care taken to try and ensure survival
within the construction zone.
   For development work within the city of Lanark that may consist of widening
a public street or alley or installing a new access driveway from a street or
alley to private property, to a park, or within the cemetery, then removal and/
or transplanting of any public access tree or street tree located within such
direct path of development is unavoidable and shall be deemed necessary to
facilitate development activities, unless said tree(s) are of historic value or
one of a kind. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
 
6-5-13   50
6-5-13: TOPPING OF TREES PROHIBITED
   Topping of trees is prohibited. All tree contractors shall comply with the
requirements and standards of the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA)
and the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), at this time said
standards being ANSI A300 and Z133. Said standards are hereby incorporated by
reference and if said standards evolve in the future, the City shall by
reference adopt said standards. (Ord. 956, 8-7-2018)
6-5-14: PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE
   Every owner (public or private) of any tree (public or private) overhanging
any street or right of way within the city of Lanark shall prune the branches
so that such branches shall not obstruct the light from any streetlight or
obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear
space of eight feet (8') above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Said
owners (public or private) shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees,
or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the
public. In addition, the city of Lanark shall have the right to prune any
private tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper
spread of light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with
visibility of any traffic control device or sign. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-15: DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
   The city of Lanark shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased private tree on private property within the city of Lanark when such
private tree constitutes a hazard to life and property, or harbors insects and
disease which constitutes a potential threat to other trees within the city of
Lanark. The Lanark city tree board will notify, in writing, the owner of such
private tree. Said owner shall be responsible for removal of any such private
trees at their own expense within sixty (60) days after the date of service of
notice. In the event of failure of any owner to comply with such provisions,
the city of Lanark shall have the authority to remove any such private tree and
charge the cost of removal on the owner's property tax notice. (Ord. 781, 3-2-
2004)
6-5-16: REMOVAL OF STUMPS
   All stumps of street trees and public access trees shall be removed below
the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above
the surface of the ground. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-16-1: PLANTING, REMOVAL, AND DESTRUCTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS
   Unless approved by written permit from the Lanark city tree board, no
individual, corporation or association shall plant, remove or destroy by
permanent damage or unrecoverable injury any tree or shrub in any public right
of way of any street or alley or on any property owned or maintained by the
city of Lanark. Any unauthorized plantings may be removed at the discretion of
the Lanark city tree board. In addition to any fines that may be assessed for
violation of this section, any individual, corporation or association or other
entity shall become civilly liable and shall be required to pay restitution to
the city of Lanark equal to the value or part of the value of the tree lost as
a result of the violation. The value or partial value of the tree lost shall be
determined under section
6-5-16-2 of this article.
   No individual, corporation or association shall place or maintain upon the
ground any cement, stone or other material or substance in a manner that
substantially impedes free passage of air and water to the tree's living
components, nor apply any material or substance to any part of a tree,
including roots, with the intention to permanently injure or destroy the tree.
(Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-16-2: TREE APPRAISAL
   The appraised value of a tree unlawfully removed or destroyed or the partial
loss in value for a tree shall be determined by the Lanark city tree board
using as a guideline, if necessary, the most current edition of the "Guide For
Plant Appraisal" prepared by the council of tree and landscape appraisers, and
edited, published and copyrighted by the International Society of
Arboriculture. Various factors used in tree value calculations for northern
Illinois may also be obtained from the most current edition of the "Species
Ratings And Appraisal Factors" for Illinois prepared by the Illinois Arborist
Association.
   In the event any entity becomes civilly liable for payment of restitution to
the city of Lanark, the Lanark city tree board shall produce a determination as
to the amount of damage done based on the guides set forth in this article.
Said valuation shall create a presumption as to the damage done. Said
presumption if accepted by both parties and paid by the offending party to the
city of Lanark shall settle the matter. If not, the city shall retain the right
to bring a civil cause of action to recover damage done and shall be entitled
to recover not only the fair market value of damage done but the costs of
recovery including court costs, its reasonable attorney fees and other expenses
including testimony by expert witnesses. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-17: INTERFERENCE WITH THE LANARK CITY TREE BOARD
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Lanark city tree board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivation, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
tree, public access tree or private tree on private grounds, as authorized in
section
6-5-15 of this article. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-18: REVIEW BY THE LANARK CITY COUNCIL
   The Lanark city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Lanark city tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling
or order of the Lanark city tree board to the Lanark city council who may hear
the matter and make final decision. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
6-5-18-1: PUBLIC UTILITIES
   Public utilities, their electric power and forestry crews and all other
crews working on their behalf, shall have the right to maintain the clearance
of their lines in compliance with Public Act 92-0214. (Ord. 956, 8-7-2018)
6-5-19: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION
   Any violation of the provisions of this article is classified as a municipal
offense against the city of Lanark. Any individual, corporation or association
violating any provision of this article shall, upon an investigation and a plea
of guilty or a conviction, be punishable by a fine not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) per offense.
   In addition to the fine that may be levied for a violation of this article,
if a tree or shrub is cut, injured, destroyed or removed for any reason by any
individual, corporation or association or other entity without the approval and
written authorization of the Lanark city tree board, they shall become civilly
liable for the damage undertaken. The amount of said damage shall be assessed
as set forth under preceding sections of this article and shall become a
presumption based on the appraisal process set forth in said sections. Said
value as determined by the Lanark city tree board using said appraisal
information shall create a rebuttable presumption as to the amount of damage
done. Should the offender refuse to pay the appraised value and civil
litigation take place to determine the actual fair market value of the damage
done for which the entity will be liable, the city shall recover said amount
and their reasonable costs including court costs, attorney fees, expert
testimony fees, etc. (Ord. 781, 3-2-2004)
ARTICLE 6
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
   
6-6-1: Water Supply Protection
   
6-6-2: General Policy
   
6-6-3: Definitions
   
6-6-4: Water System
   
6-6-5: Cross-Connection Prohibited
   
6-6-6: Survey And Investigations
   
6-6-7: Where Protection Is Required
   
6-6-8: Type Of Protection Required
   
6-6-9: Backflow Prevention Devices
   
6-6-10: Inspection And Maintenance
   
6-6-11: Booster Pumps
   
6-6-12: Violations
6-6-1: WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION
   A.   All plumbing installed within the City, shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code
890. That, if in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment
of the Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent
of Water will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved
device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such
an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the
Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all
applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois Plumbing
Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and local regulations.
   B.    No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the City may enter the supply or distribution system of said
Municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years.
   D.   The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the City for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Water
Superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the City for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross-connection control
inspection. On demand the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this Article.
   E.   The Superintendent of Water of the City is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this Article is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this Article, and until a
reconnection fee as established by appropriate City ordinance is paid to the
City. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate
disconnection without notice to any party, can be effected to prevent actual or
anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided
that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or
potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the
City, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or assigns shall be liable to
any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenue which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this Article, whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
   F.   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or any improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   G.   Municipal regulations on cross-connection control are set out in
Section
6-6-2 through
6-6-12 of this Article. These regulations shall apply under the terms of this
Article and may be amended at any time by a majority vote of the City Council.
   H.   This Article shall be in full force and effect from and after ten (10)
days from publication thereof. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-2: GENERAL POLICY
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
      1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
      2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
      3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
   B.    Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the City.
   C.    Policy: The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back- siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his
authorized representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention
device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall
immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense;
failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
6-6-6D4 below for a period of at least five (5) years. The Superintendent of
Water may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report
to the City to assist in determination whether or not service line protection
will be required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a
cross-connection control device inspector certified by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-3: DEFINITIONS
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a course such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   Direct Cross-Connection: A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   Indirect Cross-Connection: A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word "severe" as used to qualify "health hazard" means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including
without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters;
   B.   Process waters;
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
   D.   Cooling waters;
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems;
   F.    Chemicals in solution or suspension;
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-off valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross-connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system. (Ord.
678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-4: WATER SYSTEM
   A.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   B.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer's water system begins.
   C.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   D.    The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
   E.   The consumer's water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-5: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.    1.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-6: SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross-connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   B.   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The consumer's
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3.
   D.    It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   Control Of Backflow And Back-Siphonage: All cross-connections are
removed; or approved cross-connection control devices are installed for control
of backflow and back-siphonage.
      2.   Installation: Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Inspection: Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at
the time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the
Agency as a cross-connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection
of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 20 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 3705/4.
         c.    Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         d.    A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)    Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (3)    Test results;
            (4)    Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)    Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)    Servicing performed and date completed. (Ord. 678, 10-3-
1995)
6-6-7: WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED
   A.    An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises,
where in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   B.    An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the cross-connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross- connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   C.    An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the Agency's regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
Superintendent of Water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.    Car washes.
      11.    Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.    Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks. (Ord. 678, 10-3-
1995)
6-6-8: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED
   A.    The type of protection required under subsection 6-6-7B1, 2 and 3 of
this Article shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      1.    An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      2.    An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsection
6-6-7B4 and 5 of this Article shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   C.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
      3.    Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source;
      4.    There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   D.    All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-9: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES
   A.    All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
   B.    Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-10: INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE
   A.    It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer's instructions.
      1.    Fixed proper air gap separation shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by-
passed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.    Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at time
of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.    Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.    Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.    A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.    Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.    Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.    Test results;
      4.    Repairs or servicing required;
      5.    Repairs and date completed; and
      6.    Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.    Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this Section.
   F.    Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-11: BOOSTER PUMPS
   A.    Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.    It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent of Water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
6-6-12: VIOLATIONS
   A.    The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   B.    Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   C.    Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of
Utilities/Operations.
   D.    Neither the City, the Superintendent of Water, or its agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the City for any injury, damages or
lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this Article, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
   E.    The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   F.    Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article, shall
be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violation.
   G.    Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned by the City by reason of such violations, whether the same
was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 678, 10-3-1995)
ARTICLE 7
GARBAGE COLLECTION SERVICE
SECTION:
   
6-7-1: Definitions
   
6-7-2: Garbage Collection
   
6-7-3: Garbage Preparation
   
6-7-4: General Recycling
   
6-7-5: Yard Waste Preparation
   
6-7-6: Frequency Of Collection
   
6-7-7: Fee For Collection
   
6-7-8: Billing Of Fee
   
6-7-9: Payment Of Fee
   
6-7-10: Delinquent Payment
   
6-7-11: Nuisance
   
6-7-12: Prohibited Materials
   
6-7-13: Interference With Collection
   
6-7-14: Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS
BULKY; ACCEPTABLE: Acceptable bulky waste includes such items as large
household furniture, microwaves, televisions, stereos, area rugs, mattresses,
bed frames, baby cribs, baby swings, playpens, car seats, lawn chairs,
bicycles, shelving, cabinets and walking mowers.
BULKY; UNACCEPTABLE: Unacceptable bulky waste includes such items as major
household appliances, air conditioners, dehumidifiers, water heaters, windows,
plate glass, riding lawn mowers, tires, carpeting, outdoor swing sets, cement,
rock, brick, dirt, remodeling and construction debris.
GARBAGE: Includes all refuse accumulation of animal solid and vegetable solid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving,
or consumption of food or food materials. Garbage also includes paper, rags,
small pieces of metal, wood, plastic, rubber, leather, glass, pottery and other
waste materials that ordinarily accumulate around the home.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Such waste as generated at residential units within the city,
and includes, but is not limited to, automotive fluids, paints, varnishes,
solvents, pesticides, fertilizers, batteries and medical wastes.
RECYCLING ITEMS: Includes tin and aluminum cans, pie tins and foil products,
plastic jugs and bottles, glass jars and bottles, paper and cardboard products,
and waste oil and cooking oils.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: A single-family dwelling or a single dwelling unit
containing no more than four (4) family living units on a single parcel of
land.
YARD WASTE: Includes lawn, grass, and shrubbery cuttings or clippings, dry leaf
rakings, small tree branches and bushes, green leaf cuttings, fruits and other
matter usually created as refuse in the care and maintenance of lawns, yards
and gardens. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-2: GARBAGE COLLECTION
   A.    The city council of the city of Lanark has determined that it is in
the best interests of the citizens of Lanark that a periodic collection of
garbage, recycling items and yard waste from all residential dwellings within
the city of Lanark and from businesses as defined in subsequent paragraphs of
this article benefits all of the citizens of the city of Lanark. Therefore
garbage/recycling/yard waste collection service as outlined in this article is
mandatory for all occupants or persons in possession, charge of or control of
residential dwellings and businesses as defined in this article within the city
of Lanark from which garbage is created, accumulated or produced.
   B.    Occupants or persons in possession, charge or control of residential
dwellings within the city may remove and transport their own garbage/recycling
items/yard waste, but shall receive no credit on their accounts for doing so.
   C.    All businesses, commercial and industrial entities which produce a
limited amount of garbage similar in nature to a residential dwelling such as
small offices and stores with limited amounts of garbage shall be billed in the
same manner as a residential unit and shall abide by the same rules set forth
herein with regard to amount of garbage to be picked up. The larger entities
which will regularly exceed the three (3) container limit shall be responsible
for making their own arrangements for the removal of garbage from the city.
(Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-3: GARBAGE PREPARATION
   A.    Each residential dwelling unit is allowed up to three (3) 33-gallon
garbage containers each week. A garbage container may consist of a plastic bag,
a box, a barrel or a trash can. All containers in excess of the three (3)
allowed must each have a seventy five cent ($0.75) garbage sticker attached.
Such garbage stickers may be purchased at either the Express Lane or the Lanark
Food Center.
   B.    All garbage must be contained in bags, boxes, barrels or trash cans
not exceeding thirty three (33) gallons in capacity. Any loose, uncontained
garbage will not be picked up.
   C.    Bags, boxes, barrels or trash can garbage containers must not exceed a
weight of thirty (30) pounds.
   D.    All garbage must be placed at the curbside in containers. Where no
curb exists, then containers must be placed approximately where a curbside
would be located. Where collection is made in an alley, containers shall be
placed on but near the edge of the residential property and not in the alley
right of way.
   E.    A residential dwelling requiring special service for the pick up of
bulky waste items can make special arrangements by contacting the city garbage
contractor or any other garbage collection service.
   F.    No yard waste is allowed to be combined with and placed in containers
along with normal household garbage.
   G.    Scrap materials from construction, remodeling or the repair of
buildings, along with bricks, cement, tree stumps, earthy materials and
hazardous wastes are not allowed to be placed in containers for removal that
are intended for the garbage pick up service. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-4: GENERAL RECYCLING
   A.    All residential units should have a recycling bin to place at the
curbside to help the contractor identify the need to stop for the collection of
their recycling items on the day of garbage pick up.
   B.    Upon request, the city maintenance manager shall issue a new recycling
bin to each residential dwelling unit whose occupants are new to the city or
any additional bins that any residence should request. The cost for the bins
shall be whatever the city's actual cost is for the bins. The determination of
the city's actual cost shall be what was paid to the garbage contractor or any
other third party from whom the bins are purchased.
   C.    In the event there are more recycling items than a recycling bin can
hold, the excess items may be placed in a separate bag or container and set
next to the recycling bin. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-5: YARD WASTE PREPARATION
   A.    Residents placing yard waste at the curbside for pick up must use
biodegradable yard waste bags or refuse containers not exceeding thirty three
(33) gallons in capacity. Refuse containers must be clearly marked with a large
"X".
   B.    Plastic bags are not biodegradable and may not be used for yard waste.
Any yard waste contained in plastic bags will not be picked up by the
contractor.
   C.    Brush items are acceptable but must not be over two inches (2") in
diameter or four feet (4') in length and must be bundled with rope or string in
bundles not exceeding two feet (2') in diameter.
   D.    Yard waste bags should be kept as dry as possible prior to pick up day
to prevent bag bottoms from breaking open during pick up. Any loose uncontained
yard waste items will not be collected.
   E.    There is no limit for the number of yard waste bags, "X" marked
containers or bundles set out for the yard waste collection service. (Ord. 820,
11-7-2006)
6-7-6: FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION
   A.    Collection of garbage shall be made at least once a week from all
residential dwelling units. Collection of recyclables shall be made at least
once every other week from all residential dwelling units.
   B.    Each residential dwelling unit desiring yard waste service must enter
into an annual agreement with the contractor and make payment of any fees
required for such service directly to the contractor. Those residential
dwelling units with a yard waste service agreement shall be provided yard waste
collection once a week, beginning the first week of April and ending the final
week of November, weather permitting, during each calendar year. Yard waste
pick up service will occur on the same day of the week as the pick up for
garbage. Yard waste totes must be requested from the contractor.
   C.    One bulky waste cleanup day shall be scheduled by the city each
calendar year, in late spring/early summer. Acceptable bulky waste items must
be placed at the curb by five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on those days scheduled for a
bulky waste cleanup. (Ord. 919, 10-20-2015)
6-7-7: FEE FOR COLLECTION
   A.    The monthly fee for garbage and the Capital Improvement Fund shall be
established by the city council.
   B.    All businesses, commercial, industrial that constitute larger entities
as defined under subsection
6-7-2C of this article: Negotiated with contractor. (Ord. 919, 10-20-2015; amd.
Ord. 991, 8-16-2022; Ord. 1009, 11-19-2024)
6-7-8: BILLING OF FEE
   The fee for garbage/recycling/yard waste and the Capital Improvement Fund
shall be included with the water and sewer services billing. Each residential
dwelling unit shall receive a billing statement.(Ord. 1009, 11-19-2024)
6-7-9: PAYMENT OF FEE
   The fee for garbage collection shall be paid monthly when payment is made
for the water and sewer services. Monthly payments must be received on or
before the twentieth day of each month to avoid a late fee penalty.(Ord. 1009,
11-19-2024)
6-7-10: DELINQUENT PAYMENT
   Any fee due under this article for more than sixty (60) days shall be
regarded as delinquent. Water service may be disconnected until all fees for
water, sewer and garbage have been paid in full. A reconnection fee for water
service may be applied as set forth in article 2, "Water Service Regulations",
of this chapter. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-11: NUISANCE
   Neglecting to follow collection and preparation guidelines for garbage,
recycling items and yard waste as prescribed in sections 6-7-3, 6-7-4 and 6-7-
5 of this article and which therefore results in the contractor not picking up
and hauling away, or the keeping upon private premises of garbage, rubbish or
yard waste which is allowed to become offensive and noxious shall constitute a
public nuisance and may be abated in the manner provided by law for the
abatement of nuisances. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-12: PROHIBITED MATERIALS
   A.    No person shall place the following materials in a residential garbage
container or recycling bin: human waste (excluding disposable diapers),
uncontained liquids, or household hazardous wastes.
   B.    No person shall place bulky goods for collection except by special
arrangement with a garbage collector, the city contractor or during a city
sponsored semiannual curbside cleanup.
   C.    All materials defined as bulky; unacceptable. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-13: INTERFERENCE WITH COLLECTION
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the collection,
removal, and disposal of garbage/recyclables/yard waste by the contractor.
(Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
6-7-14: PENALTY
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this article shall be subject to a
fine as set forth in section 1-3-7 of this code. (Ord. 820, 11-7-2006)
ARTICLE 8
ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
   
6-8-1: Definitions
   
6-8-2: Prohibited
   
6-8-3: Applicability
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS
ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, or over any portion of the roadway right
of way.
ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by fee
simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect. (Ord. 722, 4-20-1999)
6-8-2: PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or cause
to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, an "encroachment" as
hereinabove defined, within the limits of the roadway right of way. (Ord. 722,
4-20-1999)
6-8-3: APPLICABILITY
   This Article is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith. (Ord. 722, 4-20-1999)
ARTICLE 9
UTILITY CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FEE
SECTION:
   
6-9-1: Fee Imposed
   
6-9-2: Billing
6-9-1: FEE IMPOSED
   The city of Lanark utilities authority operates the water, sewer and
stormwater systems to serve its customers both within and outside the corporate
limits of the city of Lanark. The utility systems are in need of improvements
to maintain adequate and dependable utility systems for its customers. The city
of Lanark utilities authority does not have sufficient funds on hand to pay for
the needed capital improvements to its utility systems. Therefore, the city of
Lanark utilities authority has imposed a capital improvements fee. (Ord. 886,
5-6-2014, eff. 4-1-2015)
6-9-2: BILLING
   A capital improvement fee shall be billed to each city of Lanark utilities
authority customer account and/or meter in the amount of three dollars ($3.00)
per month. This fee is hereby designated exclusively, and set aside in a
separate account, for capital improvements to the utility systems of the
utilities authority, including design costs, construction costs, right of way
costs, financing and debt service expense. (Ord. 886, 5-6-2014, eff. 4-1-2015)
CHAPTER 7
TRAFFIC
ARTICLE 1
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
   
7-1-1:       Definitions
   
7-1-2:       Obedience to Police
   
7-1-3:       Scene of Fire
   
7-1-4:       Signs and Signals
   
7-1-5:       Unauthorized Signs
   
7-1-5A:   Flashing Signals
   
7-1-6:       Animals or Bicycles
   
7-1-7:       Exemptions
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS
Whenever in this Chapter the following terms are used, they shall have the
means respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ALLE: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having one or more wheels any one of which is more than twenty inches (20") in
diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory within the City contiguous to and including a
street or highway when within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes.
CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of the
sidewalk lines at street intersections.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a State, County or Municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities, or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees (700)
F. or less, as determined by tabliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation of the property lines
of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle whether or not such streets
cross.
LANED ROADWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading and unloading of passengers or materials.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRE: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated upon
rails.
PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the Municipality, the County, any park
district, school district, the State of Illinois, or the United States
government.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
SAFETY ZONE: That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the second division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization
solely for the transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET or HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of each side or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic and each way
set aside for public travel by vehicles.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moving by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Any vehicle that would normally be covered by this definition but which can
maintain a maximum speed of ten (10) miles per hour or less shall not be
considered a vehicle for purposes of this definition and for the purposes of
the ordinances relying on this definition.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, the act of granting the
privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within
the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, provided
that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the intersection.
(1982 Code; amd. Ord. 841, 10-7-2008)
7-1-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE
   Members of the police department, police officers and special policemen
assigned to traffic duty, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or directions of a
policeman. Except in case of emergency it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1982 Code)
7-1-3: SCENE OF FIRE
   A fire department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him, may
exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in directing traffic at the
scene of any fire or where a fire department has responded to an emergency call
for so long as fire department equipment is on the scene, in the absence of or
in assisting the police. (1982 Code)
7-1-4: SIGNS AND SIGNALS
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
city council or in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois, excepting
on direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by
direction of the governing body shall conform to the state "Manual On Uniform
Traffic Control Devices" for streets and highways. (1982 Code)
7-1-5: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any
person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway any other sign
which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal, and
no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon
any highway any traffic or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal. Any such unauthorized device is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be removed by any policeman. (1982
Code)
7-1-5A: FLASHING SIGNALS
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   A.    Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.    Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past signal only with caution. (1982 Code)
7-1-6: ANIMALS OR BICYCLES
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal. (1982
Code)
7-1-7: EXEMPTIONS
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver, on approaching a red or stop
signal or any stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety and may
proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At other times drivers
of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or
signal.
   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement and parking of
vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively engaged in
installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or street pavement. (1982
Code)
ARTICLE 2
THROUGH STREETS
SECTION:
   
7-2-1: Through Streets
   
7-2-2: One-Way Streets Or Alleys
   
7-2-3: Stop Streets
   
7-2-4: Posting Signs
7-2-1: THROUGH STREETS
   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by ordinance as
through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right of way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
(1982 Code)
7-2-2: ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley
designated as a one- way street or alley by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so designated. Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way
traffic a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated. (1982 Code)
7-2-3: STOP STREETS
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected at one or more entrances thereto, and
shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which
are within the intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police
officer on duty, in which event the directions of the police officer shall be
complied with. (1982 Code)
7-2-4: POSTING SIGNS
   The Chief of Police or any other person designated by the Mayor of Council
shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all such through streets,
one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections.
ARTICLE 3
RULES FOR DRIVING
SECTION:
   
7-3-1: Required Position and Method of Turning at Intersection
   
7-3-2: Turning on Crest of Hill
   
7-3-3: Starting Parked Vehicle
   
7-3-4: Driver's Signal
   
7-3-5: Driving from Alleys, Driveways or Garages
   
7-3-6: Vehicles Not to be Driven on Sidewalks or in Safety Zones
   
7-3-7: Right of Way
   
7-3-8: Vehicle Turning Left
   
7-3-9: Limitations on Turning Around
   
7-3-10: U-Turns
   
7-3-11: No Left Turn
   
7-3-12: Fire Department Vehicles, Fires
   
7-3-13: Driving on Right Side of Roadway
   
7-3-14: Passing Vehicles
   
7-3-15: Overtaking Vehicles
   
7-3-16: Overtaking Vehicles on the Right
   
7-3-17: Limitations on Overtaking on the Left
   
7-3-18: One-Way Roadways and Rotary Traffic Islands
   
7-3-19: Operation of Vehicles on Approach of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
   
7-3-20: Reckless or Careless Driving
   
7-3-21: Speed Restrictions
   
7-3-22: Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools
   
7-3-23: Traffic Not to be Obstructed
   
7-3-24: Motorcycles
   
7-3-25: Unattended Vehicles
   
7-3-26: Unattended Animals
   
7-3-27: Clinging to Vehicles
   
7-3-28: Toy Vehicles
   
7-3-29: Riding on Running Boards
   
7-3-30: Train Signals
   
7-3-31: Driving Through Funeral or Other Procession
   
7-3-32: Drivers in a Procession
   
7-3-33: Funeral Processions to be Identified
   
7-3-34: Backing
   
7-3-35: Trucks Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
7-3-36: Limited Load Streets
   
7-3-37: School Buses
   
7-3-38: Screeching Tires
   
7-3-39: Engine Braking, Compression Braking
7-3-1: REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   A.    Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   B.    At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left turn shall be made in that
portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   C.    At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable in the left lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
   D.    The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway. (1982 Code)
7-3-2: TURNING ON CREST OF HILL
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within five hundred feet (500'). (1982 Code)
7-3-3: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1982 Code)
7-3-4: DRIVER'S SIGNAL
   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or attempt to
turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to apprise
others who might be affected by his action.
   A.    No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
   B.    A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given during not
less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the vehicle before
turning. The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the
front and rear of such vehicle then said signals must be given by such a lamp
or device.
All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from the left
side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall indicate as
follows:
      Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1982 Code)
7-3-5: DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in
driving upon said sidewalk or across such line. (1982 Code)
7-3-6: VEHICLES NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS OR IN SAFETY ZONES
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone. (1982 Code)
7-3-7: RIGHT OF WAY
   Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching
an intersection shall yield the right of way to a vehicle who has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two (2) vehicles enter an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right of way to the vehicle on the
right. (1982 Code)
7-3-8: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard but, said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield the right of way to the vehicle making the left turn. (1982 Code)
7-3-9: LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in
safety and without backing into traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic.
(1982 Code)
7-3-10: U-TURNS
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at any
place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. It shall be specifically
prohibited to perform U-turns along the intersections of Broad Street and
Locust Street, Broad Street and Carroll Street, and Broad Street and Franklin
Street. In addition to prohibiting U-turns in said intersections, U-turns in
any portion of Broad Street lying between said designated cross streets are
also prohibited. (Ord. 751, 9-4-2001)
7-3-11: NO LEFT TURN
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to turn left at
any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. (1982 Code)
7-3-12: FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES, FIRES
   Upon the approach of a fire department vehicle, drivers of vehicles shall
comply with the provisions of this article relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm,
closer than one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the fire department without the consent of the fire marshal
or the assistant in command. (1982 Code)
7-3-13: DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except as follows:
   A.    When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in and same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
   B.    When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
   C.    Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon;
   D.    Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic;
   E.    Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the
wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle. (1982 Code)
7-3-14: PASSING VEHICLES
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
(1/2) of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1982
Code)
7-3-15: OVERTAKING VEHICLES
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions, and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   A.    The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   B.    Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. (1982 Code)
7-3-16: OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE RIGHT
   A.    The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   B.    The driver of a vehicle may overtake and allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four (4) or more lanes of moving traffic when such
movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon
the shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
   C.    The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right on a one-way street, or on any street on which traffic is restricted to
one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstructions and of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving vehicles. (1982 Code)
7-3-17: LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT
   A.    No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within one hundred feet (100') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   B.    No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      1.    When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the driver's view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
      2.    When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
      3.    Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive center line is marked, which distinctive line also
so directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted by the State
Department of Public Works and Buildings.
      4.    The limitations in subparagraphs 1 and 2 of subsection B shall not
apply upon a one-way street or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction
when such movement can be made with safety. (1982 Code)
7-3-18: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS
   A.    Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic, a
vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   B.    A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven only
on the right of such island. (1982 Code)
7-3-19: OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES
   A.    Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
the driver is giving audible sign by siren or bell, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall immediately drive to a position
parallel to, and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the
highway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position
until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   B.    This Section shall not operate to relieve the driver of any authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (1982 Code)
7-3-20: RECKLESS OR CARELESS DRIVING
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the City in a careless,
reckless or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or property.
(1982 Code)
7-3-21: SPEED RESTRICTIONS
   A.    It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the State or the County in an urban district within
the City at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour, or in an alley at
a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   B.   Provided that if the Mayor and Council, by ordinance, sets other limits
as provided by Statute after an engineering or traffic survey, then such limits
shall govern the rate of speed on the streets indicated in such ordinance. The
Superintendent of Streets shall post appropriate signs showing such speed
limits.
   C.    Provided further, that the speed of all vehicles of the second
division, as defined by Statute, having two (2) or more solid tires shall not
exceed ten (10) miles per hour.
   D.    The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   E.    It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway
within the City under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Public Works
and buildings, or of the County, at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for
such street. (1982 Code)
   F.    It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle in that portion of
Hanabarger Street running from West Lanark Avenue to Blair Parkway in excess of
twenty (20) miles per hour.
   G.    It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on those portions of
Burns Street, Boyd Street and Claremont Street that adjoin or otherwise touch
the City Park of the City at any speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per
hour. (Ord. 655, 9-21-93)
7-3-22: SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty (20)
miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public
thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school during
school days when school children are present. (1982 Code)
7-3-23: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon. (1982
Code)
7-3-24: MOTORCYCLES
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any motorcycle
other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the right or
rear of the operator. (1982 Code)
7-3-25: UNATTENDED VEHICLES
   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving. Whenever any police officer finds
a vehicle unattended upon any bridge or causeway or in any tunnel where such
vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer is hereby
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest garage or
other place of safety. (1982 Code)
7-3-26: UNATTENDED ANIMALS
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened. (1982 Code)
7-3-27: CLINGING TO VEHICLES
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle, or any toy vehicle to cling to or to attach himself or his vehicle
to any moving motor vehicle or wagon. (1982 Code)
7-3-28: TOY VEHICLES
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk. (1982 Code)
7-3-29: RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board
or outside step of any vehicle. (1982 Code)
7-3-30: TRAIN SIGNALS
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a signal
device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train shall stop within
fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest track of
such railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade crossing
when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman, or automatic signal warns of
the approach of a train.
   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any school
bus carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but
not less than ten feet (10') from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall
listen and look in both directions along such track from which a train might
come, before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing. Provided that
no such stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a
traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. (1982 Code)
7-3-31: DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this article. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals or police officers. (1982 Code)
7-3-32: DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as practical and safe. (1982 Code)
7-3-33: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia and by having the lights of each vehicle lighted. (1982
Code)
7-3-34: BACKING
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic. (1982
Code)
7-3-35: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
   It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only on any street so designated by ordinance
or property signposted. (1982 Code)
7-3-36: LIMITED LOAD STREETS
   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by
ordinance and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such
vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose. (1982 Code)
7-3-37: SCHOOL BUSES
   The driver of a vehicle on a street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any schoolchildren shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by the statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils; provided, that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of
which the roadway for traffic moving in opposite directions is separated by a
strip of ground which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicle traffic need not
stop his vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite
roadway. (1982 Code)
7-3-38: SCREECHING TIRES
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the city in a manner causing
unnecessary and continual noise or screeching of tires, causing rubber marks to
remain on city streets; which squealing noise disturbs and interferes with the
comfort, health, peace and safety of any resident of the city. (1982 Code)
7-3-39: ENGINE BRAKING, COMPRESSION BRAKING
   A.    Prohibitive Acts: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle
to use or permit the use within the city of Lanark of any engine brake,
compression brake, or mechanical exhaust designed to aid in the braking or
deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle that unreasonably disturbs and annoys
residents. This subsection shall specifically include, but is not limited to,
what is commonly referred to as a "jake brake".
   B.    Emergency Braking: This section shall not apply to the use of such
braking techniques or braking devices when necessary to avoid a collision
between the vehicle and any other vehicle, person, or property.
   C.    Signage: Appropriate roadside signs such as "NO ENGINE BRAKING EXCEPT
IN EMERGENCIES" shall be posted upon entering at or near the city limits of
Lanark along Illinois public highway routes 52/64 and 73.
   D.    Emergency Vehicles: This section shall not apply to emergency
vehicles, including, but not limited to, fire engines, emergency responder
vehicles, ambulances, and other types of emergency vehicles when the occupants
thereof are in the performance of their official duties.
   E.    Penalties:
      1.   Any person found to be violating the provisions of this section for
the first time shall be punished by the imposition of a fine up to, but not
exceeding, thirty five dollars ($35.00).
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this section who has
previously been found guilty or pled guilty to a violation of this section
shall be punished by the imposition of a fine up to, but not exceeding, seventy
five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Any person violating the provisions of this section who has
previously been found guilty or pled guilty to at least two (2) prior
violations of this section shall be punished by the imposition of a fine up to,
but not exceeding, three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 801, 10-4-2005)
ARTICLE 4
LEAVING IGNITION KEYS IN UNATTENDED VEHICLE
SECTION:
   
7-4-1: Leaving Unattended Vehicle
   
7-4-2: Action By Police Officer
   
7-4-3: Presumption
7-4-1: LEAVING UNATTENDED VEHICLE
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended in any public place, or on any used or new car lot, or parking lot
without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the ignition
key from the vehicle, effectively setting the brake thereon and, when standing
upon any grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway.
(1982 Code)
   Any person violating any provisions of this Section shall be subject to a
penalty as set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code. (Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
7-4-2: ACTION BY POLICE OFFICER
   Whenever any police officer shall find a motor vehicle standing unattended
with the ignition key in the vehicle, in violation of this Article, such police
officer is authorized to remove such key from such vehicle. (1982 Code)
7-4-3: PRESUMPTION
   The registered owner of a vehicle found in violation of this Article shall
be held prima facie responsible for any such violation. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
   
7-5-1: Right Of Way
   
7-5-2: Pedestrians Crossing Roadway
   
7-5-3: Signals
   
7-5-4: Standing On Sidewalk
   
7-5-5: Pedestrian Crossing
   
7-5-6: Pedestrian Walking Along Roadways
   
7-5-7: Blind Pedestrians, Right Of Way
7-5-1: RIGHT OF WAY
   Where traffic-control signals or pedestrian-control signals provided for in
Article 3 of this Chapter are not in place or in operation, the driver of a
vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked crosswalk or within
any unmarked crosswalk.
   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall
have the right of way over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and any
pedestrian within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall
have the right of way over any vehicle so stopped. The driver of a vehicle
shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any vehicle proceeding in the
same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the purpose of permitting a
pedestrian to cross. (1982 Code)
7-5-2: PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAY
   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the most
direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other than
a crosswalk, he shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety zone,
if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic. (1982 Code)
7-5-3: SIGNALS
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a policeman or by a stop and
go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other
than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic. (1982 Code)
7-5-4: STANDING ON SIDEWALK
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians. (1982 Code)
7-5-5: PEDESTRIAN CROSSING
   A.    Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   B.    No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business section. (1982 Code)
7-5-6: PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon
a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or
its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall step off to the
left.
   C.    No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle. (1982 Code)
7-5-7: BLIND PEDESTRIANS, RIGHT OF WAY
   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right of way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver of
every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a blind person who is not
carrying such a cane or walking stick or is not guided by a guide dog, but the
other provisions of this Article relating to pedestrians shall be applicable to
such person. However, the failure of a blind person to so use or so carry such
a cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 6
PARKING RULES
SECTION:
   
7-6-1: No Parking Places
   
7-6-2: Parking At Curb
   
7-6-3: Vehicles For Sale
   
7-6-4: Loading Zone
   
7-6-5: Alleys
   
7-6-6: Parking, Time Limit
   
7-6-7: Limited Winter Parking
   
7-6-8: Parking Motor Vehicles On Private Property
   
7-6-9: Signs
   
7-6-10: Parking Limitations In Business District
   
7-6-11: Tire Markings
   
7-6-12: Violation; Payment
   
7-6-13: Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
   
7-6-14: Presumption Of Liability
   
7-6-15: Travel Trailers
   
7-6-16: Idling The Engine Of Diesel Powered Trucks
7-6-1: NO PARKING PLACES
   It shall be unlawful at any time to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic control
device:
   A.    In any intersection.
   B.    In a crosswalk.
   C.    Upon any bridge.
   D.    Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   E.    Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
   F.    Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   G.    At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
   H.    Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   I.    At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   J.    Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   K.    Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly
signposted.
   L.    On any sidewalk or parkway. (1982 Code)
   M.    At any place where official signs prohibit parking and specifically
including the following areas:
      1.   The 200 block of West Carroll Street.
      2.   The south side of East Locust Street from Argyle Street to Will
Street.
      3.   The south side of roadway in the 100 block of Illinois Route 64 west
of the driveway for 110 East Illinois Route 64. (Ord. 896, 12-16-2014)
7-6-2: PARKING AT CURB
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two (2)
right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly
established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for
angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
such marks. (1982 Code)
7-6-3: VEHICLES FOR SALE
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle, merchandise is peddled. (1982 Code)
7-6-4: LOADING ZONE
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed ten (10) minutes, and for the driver to
stand any freight carrying vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to exceed thirty (30)
minutes, in any place designated by the city council as a loading zone and
marked as such, or in any of the following designated places:
   A.    At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
   B.    At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. except on Sunday.
   C.    Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open for business. (Ord. 584, 12-18-1984)
7-6-5: ALLEYS
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley. All alleys shall be
considered loading zones. It shall be unlawful to stand a passenger vehicle or
freight carrying vehicle in any alley during unloading in such a position as to
leave less than ten feet (10') of the width of the alley for the free movement
of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within
an alley in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property. (Ord. 584, 12-18-1984)
7-6-6: PARKING, TIME LIMIT
   A.    For purposes of this section, vehicles shall include, but not be
limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, campers, boats on trailers, farm
wagons, horsedrawn wagons, farm implements of all kinds and generally all other
classes of vehicles, whether or not self-propelled.
   B.    No person shall park a vehicle along the streets, avenues or parkways
of the city for more than seventy two (72) continuous hours. At the expiration
of seventy two (72) hours failure to remove the vehicle in question not less
than two hundred feet (200') for a period of not less than two (2) hours shall
constitute a violation of this section. (1982 Code)
7-6-7: LIMITED WINTER PARKING
   A.    Parking Restrictions: At such times as there is an accumulation of two
inches (2") of snow on the streets in the city or the city has declared a snow
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any driver or owner of any vehicle to
obstruct the orderly removal of snow from the city's streets, alleys or public
ways by parking, permitting to be parked or otherwise leaving unattended any
vehicle upon the following streets, alleys and public ways:
      1.   On the even side of the street (as indicated by address) on even
days (as indicated by date) between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
      2.   On the odd side of the street (as indicated by address) on odd days
(as indicated by date) between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M.
The parking restrictions of this subsection shall terminate block by block as
soon as the accumulated snow has been removed from the full width of the
street, and at such time regular parking regulations shall go back into effect
immediately. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to permit
parking on streets where parking is otherwise restricted or prohibited.
   B.    City Parking Lots: Any other provisions of this code notwithstanding,
parking or standing of any vehicles shall be prohibited in city parking lots
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
day after a snowfall of two inches (2") or more has accumulated.
   C.    Vehicle: For purposes of this article, the term "vehicle" shall refer
to, but is not limited to, an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a semitrailer,
a tractor, a trailer, a bus, a camper, a motor home, a motorized bicycle, a
boat on a trailer, a snowmobile, an all-terrain vehicle, a farm implement and
generally all other classes of vehicles, whether or not self-propelled.
   D.    Violation: The police department is hereby authorized to issue a
citation and/or cause the towing, removal and storage of any vehicle which is
in violation of this section, consistent with the provisions of section 7-11-
8 of this chapter. (Ord. 882, 2-18-2014)
7-6-8: PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property. (1982 Code)
7-6-9: SIGNS
   The chief of police or any other person authorized by the mayor and council
shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1982 Code)
7-6-10: PARKING LIMITATIONS IN BUSINESS DISTRICT
   A parking time limit of two (2) hours is hereby established for the north
100 block of Broad Street between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. daily except Sundays and holidays.
   A.   Holidays designated:
      January 1, New Year's Day
      Memorial Day
      July 4, Independence Day
      Labor Day
      November 11, Veterans Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      December 25, Christmas Day
   B.   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand or remain parked in
the north 100 block of Broad Street and south 100 block of Broad Street between
the hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M.
for the areas designated. (Ord. 915, 10-20-2015)
7-6-11: TIRE MARKINGS
   Officers of the police department or any other person authorized by the
mayor or council may mark a tire of a vehicle in a specific spot with relation
to the curb or street surface, noting the time said vehicle is so marked.
   If, after the permitted parking time has elapsed, the vehicle is still
parked in the same parking space, it shall be prima facie evidence that a
violation has occurred and a citation may be issued. Police officers, after
making note of a license number of the vehicle and the name of the offender,
where possible, may issue a ticket covering any parking offense under this
section notifying the offender to pay the sum therefor at the office of the
city clerk. Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if
the offender does not appear and pay said sum within the time specified.
   No person shall obliterate or conceal any marking by a police officer on the
tire of a vehicle for the purpose of preventing the police officer from
determining the length of time said vehicle has been parked. The moving of a
vehicle for fifty feet (50') or less shall not be construed as an interruption
of continuous parking. (1982 Code)
7-6-12: VIOLATION; PAYMENT
   Any person who violates the provisions of any parking ordinance of the city
shall be fined five dollars ($5.00), if such fine is paid within forty eight
(48) hours, and if said fine is not paid within forty eight (48) hours, then
the fine shall be ten dollars ($10.00) and shall remain so until ten (10) days
after the mailing of a notice by the city to the violator. At the end of the
aforesaid ten (10) day period, the fine shall be determined as provided by the
general provisions of the ordinances of the city. (Ord. 622, 1-22-1991)
   The penalty provisions of this section shall also apply to all violations of
ordinances of the city pertaining to parking, including, but not limited to,
ordinances concerning parking in alleys, parking in loading zones, parking in
disobeyance of posted parking signs, general time limit provisions concerning
parking in excess of seventy two (72) hours.
   Any person parking a motor vehicle along a curbing marked by a yellow line
shall be considered in violation of this article and shall be liable for
issuance of tickets as set forth in this section. Any person found parking a
motor vehicle along a street which is marked by lines to indicate specific
parking places and is found to be parking outside of said specific parking
markers shall be considered in violation of this article and shall be issued a
ticket consistent with the provisions of this section. (1982 Code)
7-6-13: REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
   Any car or other vehicle parked on the above listed streets under this
article during the hours when parking thereon is prohibited, may be removed and
towed away. The police department and all members thereof are hereby authorized
to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by commercial towing
service, any such car or other vehicle parked in violation of said section.
Cars so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a safe place and
shall be restored to the owner or operator of such car upon payment of a fee as
determined by the mayor and council. (1982 Code)
7-6-14: PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY
   Proof of registration of a motor vehicle and proof of a violation of this
article shall be construed a prima facie proof that the registered owner of
such motor vehicle was the user or operator thereof at the time of the
violation charged. (1982 Code)
7-6-15: TRAVEL TRAILERS
   A.    For purposes of this section, a "camping or travel trailer" shall be
defined as a trailer smaller than a normal residential mobile home which is
unpowered and pulled by another vehicle or a self-propelled vehicle equipped
for camping or living in. Said camping or travel trailers customarily have
toilet facilities, may include shower facilities, sleeping facilities, cooking
facilities, etc. A lack of any one of these items referred to in the preceding
sentence will not disqualify a vehicle from this definition, but if it contains
a substantial number of items necessary for overnight habitation, it shall be
considered a camping or travel trailer for purposes of this section.
   B.    It shall be permissible to park a camping or travel trailer on
property owned or in possession of a resident of the city of Lanark on any
location that it would also be permissible and legal to park an automobile or a
similar vehicle. No special permit shall be required for parking said camping
or travel trailer if a permit would not be required for parking an automobile
on said location.
   C.    If the camping or travel trailer is legally parked not on a public
street or alley but on private property owned by a resident or in possession of
a resident of the city of Lanark, that camping or travel trailer may be
occupied as living space by said resident or other persons with permission of
said resident for a period of up to three (3) months. After said three (3)
month period the occupation of the camping or travel trailer for residential
purposes shall cease without first receiving express written permission by the
city council of the city of Lanark. The city council shall retain the right on
application to allow occupation for periods in excess of three (3) months.
   D.    The city council hereby expressly reserves the right to designate any
portion of the parkways under the control of the city council of the city of
Lanark located within the city of Lanark as a permissible location for parking
of vehicles. The council may, by resolution, designate any particular section
of parkway as space available for parking. This resolution may be passed or
rescinded at any time. (Ord. 762, 5-21-2002)
7-6-16: IDLING THE ENGINE OF DIESEL POWERED TRUCKS
   No person shall cause or permit an engine of a diesel powered truck to stand
idling, or operating at any other engine speed while the truck is not in
motion, for a period in excess of ten (10) minutes out of any continuous three
(3) hour portion of the restricted hours between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   A.    Exemptions:
      1.   Within the zoning districts of:
         a.   A - Agricultural.
         b.    C1 - Highway/auto commerce.
         c.    I - Industry.
      2.   The north side of roadway in the 100 block of Illinois Route 64
between east of 103 East Illinois Route 64 and South School Drive.
      3.   The 100 block of Tower Street.
      4.   All vehicles and equipment operated by the city, any other unit of
government, and any utility, or any of their contractors or subcontractors, in
the course of performing services or work, including, without limitation,
public safety and emergency response services, for the general welfare of the
public.
      5.   Vehicles stopped due to traffic congestion or railroad crossing.
(Ord. 895, 12-16-2014)
ARTICLE 7
CONDITION OF VEHICLE
SECTION:
   
7-7-1: Clear Vision
   
7-7-2: Signal Lamps
   
7-7-3: Unnecessary Noise
   
7-7-4: Horn
   
7-7-5: Gas And Smoke
   
7-7-6: Projecting Loads, Width And Height
   
7-7-7: Brakes
   
7-7-8: Muffler
   
7-7-9: Lights
   
7-7-10: Volunteer Fireman
   
7-7-11: Nonskid Devices
   
7-7-12: Tires
   
7-7-13: Weight
   
7-7-14: Spilling Loads
   
7-7-15: Bicycles
   
7-7-16: Driving Unsafe Vehicles Prohibited
7-7-1: CLEAR VISION
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any view of the roadway
to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to
give him a view of the roadway behind him. (1982 Code)
7-7-2: SIGNAL LAMPS
   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and required
signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device
when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab or load of such vehicle exceeds twenty four
inches (24"), or when the distance from the center of the top of the steering
post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen feet (14').
The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicle, also to any
combination of vehicles.
7-7-3: UNNECESSARY NOISE
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
7-7-4: HORN
   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient audible
signalling device in efficient working condition. Such signalling device shall
be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a vehicle,
but such horn or other signalling shall not be sounded for any purpose other
than as a warning of impending danger.
   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren or gong signalling device.
7-7-5: GAS AND SMOKE
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
7-7-6: PROJECTING LOADS, WIDTH AND HEIGHT
   The maximum width and height of any vehicle and its load shall not exceed
the limits expressed in the State traffic law. No passenger type vehicle shall
be operated on the streets with a load extending beyond the line of the fenders
on the left side of the vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond
the line of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of forty two feet
(42') extreme overall dimensions.
   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than two
(2) units, and no such combination of vehicles, unladen or with load, shall
exceed a total length of fifty feet (50'); but such length limitations shall
not apply to vehicles operated in daytime when transporting pipes, poles,
machinery and other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such
vehicles operated at nighttime by a public utility when engaged in emergency
repair work; but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with
sufficient lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet (3') in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
7-7-7: BRAKES
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the State traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
7-7-8: MUFFLER
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cutout is prohibited.
7-7-9: LIGHTS
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the State law;
provided, that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street
or portion thereof, designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles may so
park at nighttime.
7-7-10: VOLUNTEER FIREMAN
   Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer fireman may be
equipped with not more than two (2) lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. A flashing
blue light may be used only when such fireman is responding to a fire call.
7-7-11: NONSKID DEVICES
   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any motor vehicle equipped
with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or nonflexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
7-7-12: TIRES
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the State traffic law.
7-7-13: WEIGHT
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the State traffic law for
driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law, or in violation of special weight limits provided for
by ordinance and signposted.
7-7-14: SPILLING LOADS
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on
any street or alley in the Municipality.
7-7-15: BICYCLES
   A.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   B.   No person shall operate a bicycle that is not equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall
any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   C.    Every bicycle shall be equipped with a good and adequate brake.
7-7-16: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this Article, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation to this Article.
ARTICLE 8
DRIVERS
SECTION
   
7-8-1: Liquor or Drugs
   
7-8-2: Accidents
7-8-1: LIQUOR OR DRUGS
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicles on any street.
7-8-2: ACCIDENTS
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage,
shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and give
his true name and residence to the injured person or any other persons
requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner of the
property damaged, and to a policeman if one is present. A report of each such
accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned in it to the
Chief of Police within twenty four (24) hours after the accident.
ARTICLE 9
PENALTY
SECTION:
   
7-9-1: General Penalty
   
7-9-2: Arrests
   
7-9-3: Tickets
   
7-9-4: Prima Facie Proof
   
7-9-5: Attorney's Fees
   
7-9-6: Court Costs
7-9-1: GENERAL PENALTY
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not less
than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense, unless the offense in question provides for a penalty for that
specific offense, in which case the specific penalty for the offense shall
apply.
7-9-2: ARRESTS
   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this Chapter shall
be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by Statute. The police
officer in command at the station may, in the absence of a Police Magistrate or
Justice, prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each instance; provided, that
any arrested person may, at his own request, have the amount of such bond set
by a Magistrate or Justice of the Peace as provided by Statute.
7-9-3: TICKETS
   For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving,
police officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and
name of the offender where possible) may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if
the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
7-9-4: PRIMA FACIE PROOF
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
7-9-5: ATTORNEY'S FEES
   In the event the City Attorney or any attorney representing the City appears
to prosecute a violation of any provision of this Chapter, an additional charge
of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be taxed to the defendant as costs.
7-9-6: COURT COSTS
   Whenever a person pleads guilty, forfeits a duly posted bond, or is found
guilty at trial on any offense the costs of the proceeding shall be paid by
such person. When a person is found not guilty or the cause of action is
dismissed on motion of the City, the City shall pay the costs.
ARTICLE 10
TOWING CARS AWAY
SECTION:
   
7-10-1: General
7-10-1: GENERAL
   The police department, and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty, are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant, or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle.
   Cars so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored in a safe place and
shall be restored to the owner or operator of such car upon payment of a fee of
$              within twenty four (24) hours after the time such car was
removed, plus $             for each additional twenty four (24) hours or
fraction thereof. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 11
ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
   
7-11-1: Owner And Vehicle Definitions
   
7-11-2: Abandoned Vehicle Defined
   
7-11-3: Inoperable Vehicle Defined
   
7-11-4: Exemptions
   
7-11-5: Violation; Declaration Of Public Nuisance
   
7-11-6: Service Of Notice
   
7-11-7: Contents Of Notice
   
7-11-8: Towing
   
7-11-9: Disposition Of Vehicles
   
7-11-10: Proceeds Of Public Sale
   
7-11-11: Report By Police Department
   
7-11-12: Immunity From Damages
   
7-11-13: Penalty
7-11-1: OWNER AND VEHICLE DEFINITIONS
   A.   Owner: A person who holds legal title of a vehicle or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for conditional sale or lease thereof
with the right of purchase upon the performance of the conditions stated in the
agreement and with the immediate right of possession vested in the conditional
vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such vehicle is entitled to
possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed
the owner for the purpose of this article.
   B.   Vehicle: For purposes of this article, the term "vehicle" shall refer
to, but is not limited to, an automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a trailer, a
semitrailer, a tractor, a trailer, a bus, a camper, a motor home, a motorized
bicycle, a boat on a trailer, a snowmobile, an all-terrain vehicle, a farm
implement and generally all other classes of vehicles, whether or not self-
propelled. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-2: ABANDONED VEHICLE DEFINED
   The term "abandoned vehicle" means the following:
   A.   A vehicle that has remained on private property without permission and/
or notification to the property owner or person in control of that property for
more than forty eight (48) hours, unless the chief of police was notified as to
why it is there.
   B.   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service upon the request of
a police officer enforcing a public parking violation ordinance and the
impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner's agent
within twenty (20) days after the vehicle's removal.
   C.    A vehicle left on public property within the city limits without being
moved or used for twenty (20) consecutive days or more and is apparently
deserted.
   D.    A vehicle located on public property within the city limits in such a
manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic on a public right of way for forty eight (48) hours or
more. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-3: INOPERABLE VEHICLE DEFINED
The term "inoperable vehicle" means the following:
   A.   Any motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels or other parts have
been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered,
damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power or operated on a public roadway, for a period of
thirty (30) days or more.
   B.   Any engines, wheels or other automotive parts which are detached from a
motor vehicle and which have remained on public or private property for a
period of thirty (30) days or more.
   C.   Any motor vehicle which, for a period of at least thirty (30) days, has
remained on a private or public lot or parcel of property and is not currently
registered with a duly authorized Illinois or other state's or nation's
department of motor vehicles, transportation, secretary of state, registration
or other applicable agency or department.
   D   A vehicle that is at least three (3) model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-4: EXEMPTIONS
   A.    A vehicle otherwise fitting the definition of an abandoned or
inoperable vehicle shall not be considered abandoned or inoperable if it is:
      1.   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways or drag strips.
      2.   A vehicle registered and licensed under Illinois code as an antique
vehicle.
      3.   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
      4.   A vehicle located on the sales lot of a licensed dealer or on the
premises of a place of business engaged in the repair and servicing of vehicles
or on the premises of a licensed junkyard.
      5.   The vehicle is a seasonal or recreational vehicle in off season
storage and it is legally operable and registered.
      6.   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or
repair operations, provided that the repairs are completed within thirty (30)
days of the date the motor vehicle was rendered incapable of being driven under
its own motor power.
   B.   A motor vehicle shall not be considered an abandoned or inoperable
vehicle if it is stored in an enclosed area such as a garage or other building
or within a nontransparent fenced area which blocks the vehicle from public
view. Vehicle covers, tarps, plastic sheets, or similar coverings do not
satisfy this requirement. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-5: VIOLATION; DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE
   The city declares that it is a violation of this article and a public
nuisance to park, store or leave any vehicle of any kind which is abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled, inoperative, rusted, junked or in a partially dismantled
condition whether attended or not upon any property within the city for a
period of time in excess of thirty (30) days. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE
   Whenever a complaint or observation of any abandoned or inoperable vehicle
upon any public or private property comes to the attention of the police
department, a notice to the owner of the abandoned or inoperable vehicle shall
be issued as follows:
   A.    For an abandoned or an inoperable vehicle with proper registration and
licensing:
      1.    Notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, or shall be personally served upon the owner as permitted by
section 2-203(a) of the Illinois code of civil procedure, as amended; and
      2.   The notice shall be affixed to the abandoned or inoperable vehicle
in a conspicuous location.
   B.    For an abandoned or an inoperable vehicle without any identifiable
licensing, registration or ownership, the notice shall be affixed to the
abandoned or inoperable vehicle in a conspicuous location. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-7: CONTENTS OF NOTICE
   The notice referred to in section
7-11-6 of this article shall contain the following information:
   A.    That the vehicle is abandoned or inoperable as defined by this
article;
   B.    That the owner has seven (7) days within which to remove the abandoned
or inoperable vehicle;
   C.    That the owner is entitled to a public hearing before the Lanark city
council concerning the city's decision to classify the vehicle as abandoned or
inoperable;
   D.    That a request for a public hearing must be made within seven (7) days
of the date of the notice; and
   E.    That the failure of the owner to remove the abandoned or inoperable
vehicle will subject the vehicle to being towed and stored at the owner's
expense and will subject the owner of the abandoned or inoperable vehicle to
the penalties prescribed in this article. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-8: TOWING
   A.    The police department is hereby authorized to issue a citation and/or
cause the towing, removal and storage of any vehicle which is in violation of
this article, or that may be lost, stolen or unclaimed.
   B.    When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by a police officer, the owner of the vehicle will be responsible
for all towing costs and storage fees. These costs shall be in addition to any
fine levied for a violation of this article. The towing company shall be
permitted to retain the vehicle until all reasonable commercial towing and
storage charges are paid.
   C.    All towed vehicles shall be first searched for valuables and the
contents inventoried.
   D.    Upon towing and removal of the abandoned or inoperable vehicle, the
city shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, including the
following information concerning the vehicle towed (which shall be retained by
the police department for 3 years):
      1.   The color;
      2.   The year of manufacture;
      3.    The manufacturer's trade name;
      4.    The manufacturer's series name;
      5.    The body style;
      6.    The vehicle identification number (VIN);
      7.    The license plate;
      8.    The license plate number;
      9.    The registration sticker year;
      10. The registration number displayed;
      11. The date and hour of tow;
      12. The location from which the vehicle was towed;
      13. The location to which the vehicle was towed;
      14. The reason for the tow; and
      15. The city employee authorizing the tow. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-9: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES
   Removed vehicles shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in
accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-201 through 5/4-214. (Ord.
813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-10: PROCEEDS OF PUBLIC SALE
   When a vehicle located within the city limits is authorized to be towed as a
result of a violation of this article, and the vehicle is disposed of at a
public sale as set forth in this article, the proceeds of that public sale,
after deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited
in the city treasury. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-11: REPORT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the police
department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this article, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
police department for a period of three (3) years from the date of the sale or
disposal. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-12: IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
article. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
7-11-13: PENALTY
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
article shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation, and not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the
second and each subsequent violation. Each day that a violation occurs or
continues shall be a separate violation. Enforcement proceedings may be
commenced by either a notice to appear or by a summons. (Ord. 813, 5-9-2006)
ARTICLE 12
USE OF SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
   
7-12-1: General
   
7-12-2: Definitions
   
7-12-3: Equipment
   
7-12-4: Operation Generally
   
7-12-5: Operation On Highways
   
7-12-6: Youthful Operators
   
7-12-7: Other Prohibition
   
7-12-8: Routes
   
7-12-9: Hours
   
7-12-10: Penalty
7-12-1: GENERAL
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the SNOWMOBILE REGULATION
ORDINANCE. (1982 Code)
7-12-2: DEFINITIONS
As used in this article, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
CITY: The city of Lanark, Illinois.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines of any highway, road, street,
avenue, alley, or public driveway.
INTOXICATING BEVERAGE: Any beverage enumerated in the "liquor control act of
the state of Illinois".
OPERATE: To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is under
way.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
OWNER: A person, other than a lien holder, having title to a snowmobile. The
term includes a person entitled to the use or possession by agreement and
securing payment or performance of an obligation, but the term excludes a
lessee under a lease not intended as security.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or other
entity.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic, exclusive of the term or shoulder.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
7-12-3: EQUIPMENT
   All snowmobiles operating within the City shall be equipped with:
   A.    At least one headlamp having a minimum candle-power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') ahead during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   B.    At least one red tail lamp having a minimum candle-power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions.
   C.    A brake system in good mechanical condition.
   D.    Reflective material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square inches
mounted on each side of the cowling. Identifying numbers may be included in
computing the required sixteen (16) square inch area.
7-12-4: OPERATION GENERALLY
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in
the following ways:
   A.    At a rate of speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour, and the
fact that the speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum
speed limit allowed does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or object
within legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   B.    In a careless, reckless or negligent manner.
   C.    While under the influence of intoxicating beverages or narcotic or
dangerous drugs.
   D.    At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted tail
lamp on the snowmobile.
   E.    On the tracks or right of way of an operating railroad.
   F.    On private property, without the written consent of the owner or
lessee thereof. Any person operating a snowmobile upon lands of another shall
stop and identify himself upon the request of the landowner or his duly
authorized representative, and, if requested to do so by the landowner shall
promptly remove the snowmobile from the premises.
7-12-5: OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile on all
highways located within the City, except upon the routes specifically
designated in Section
7-12-8 of this Article and/or consistent with the provisions listed below:
   A.    Snowmobiles may take a direct crossing, provided the crossing is made
at an angle of approximately ninety degrees (900) to the direction of the
highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
and
   B.    The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing a
highway; and
   C.    The operator yields the right of way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
7-12-6: YOUTHFUL OPERATORS
   It is unlawful for any person without a valid motor vehicle driver's license
to operate a snowmobile as provided in Section
7-12-4 of this Article.
7-12-7: OTHER PROHIBITION
   A.    No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride any
snowmobile with any firearm in his possession unless it is unstrung in a
carrying case.
   B.    No person shall deposit from a snowmobile on the snow, ice or ground
surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble material, or other offensive matter.
(1982 Code)
7-12-8: ROUTES
   A.    No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public highway within the City
except upon the routes herein described as follows:
   Route Number 1: Route Number 1 shall consist of West Carroll Street, East
Carroll Street, that portion of North High Street connecting East Carroll
Street and the alley north of East Locust Street, the alley north of East
Locust Street running from North High Street to the alley which continues north
from South Will Street, and that portion of East Locust Street proceeding east
from South Will Street to the City limits.
   Route Number 2: Route Number 2 shall consist of East Lanark Avenue from East
Locust Street south to the City limits.
   Route Number 3: Route Number 3 shall consist of West Lanark Avenue from West
Carroll Street south to the City limits.
   Route Number 4: Route Number 4 shall consist of that portion of North Boyd
Street running from West Carroll Street north across the Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul and Pacific Railroad tracks, through the alley south of the City Park,
west to Burns Street, then north on Burns Street to the alley south of West
Claremont Street, then west through the alley and across Bruce Street and
through the south side of Burkholder's Subdivision to the City limits.
   B.    Snowmobiles may be operated to and from the owner's residence to the
nearest approved route during the hours approved for snowmobile operation.
(1982 Code)
7-12-9: HOURS
   No snowmobile may be operated within the City limits except during the
following hours on the following days of the week:
      Sunday -- 7:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M.
         -- 12:00 noon to 11:00 P.M.
      Monday through Thursday -- 7:00 A.M. to 11:00 P.M.
      Friday and Saturday -- 7:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
(1982 Code)
7-12-10: PENALTY
   Any person violating this Article shall be fined as set forth in Section
1-3-7 of this Code. (1982 Code; amd. Ord. 715, 6-16-1998)
ARTICLE 13
WHEEL TAX
   (Abolished effective July 1, 1983, by Ord. 569)
ARTICLE 14
RAILROADS
SECTION:
   
7-14-1: Railroads
7-14-1: RAILROADS
   Every railroad corporation shall cause boards, well supported by posts or
otherwise, to be placed and constantly maintained upon each public road or
street, where the same is crossed by its railroad on the same level. Said
boards shall be elevated so as not to obstruct the travel, and to be easily
seen by travelers. On each side of said boards shall be painted in capital
letters, of at least the size of nine inches (9") each, the words, "railroad
crossing", or "look out for the cars".
ARTICLE 15
HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
   
7-15-1: Definition
   
7-15-2: Hazardous Dilapidated Motor Vehicle Declared
   
7-15-3: Right To Enter Upon Private Property
   
7-15-4: Exceptions
   
7-15-5: Removal Of Hazardous Dilapidated Motor Vehicle
   
7-15-6: Disposal Of Hazardous Dilapidated Motor Vehicle
   
7-15-7: Liability
   
7-15-8: Penalty
7-15-1: DEFINITION
   A.    "Hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle with a
substantial number of essential parts, as defined by section 1-118 of the
Illinois vehicle code, either damaged, removed or altered or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power
and, which by its general state of deterioration, poses a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of the general public.
   B.    "Hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle" shall not include a motor
vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its
own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
(Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
7-15-2: HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLE DECLARED
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any hazardous dilapidated motor
vehicle or part thereof located within public view inside the city boundaries
except for those private businesses involved in junking or vehicle repair. A
vehicle may be declared a hazardous, dilapidated motor vehicle if:
   A.    The motor vehicle or some part thereof is inoperable and left
unattended with fluids leaking from the engine, radiator or transmission that
may therefore contaminate nearby surroundings so as to pose or develop an
unsafe public health situation.
   B.    An inoperable motor vehicle or some part thereof is in a general state
of deterioration with broken window glass, or having other sharp protrusions or
edges or dangerous loose parts which could be a source for injury and a cause
of concern for physical human safety.
   C.    An inoperable motor vehicle or some part thereof becomes a harbor or
home for wild animals or rodents that may attack and defend their territory,
carry or transmit disease or otherwise pose a threat to the health, safety and
general welfare of humans and other domesticated animals.
   D.    The motor vehicle or some part thereof has been rendered inoperable by
severe damage resulting from an accident, by an act of nature or for any other
reason so by its physical appearance an unsightly or blighted condition within
view of the general public is created.
   E.    The motor vehicle is left unattended, inoperable, wrecked, burned or
partially dismantled and creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to a public traffic right of way or by its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic. (Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
7-15-3: RIGHT TO ENTER UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY
   The chief of police or any member of the police department shall be
authorized to enter upon private property, upon being notified or receiving a
complaint, for the purpose of investigating a motor vehicle or parts thereof,
alleged to be a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle according to the provisions
of this article. (Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
7-15-4: EXCEPTIONS
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   A.    Any motor vehicle that is completely enclosed within a building or
garage, completely covered under a carport, or is otherwise covered and placed
at the rear of a residence or behind a primary structure or located on such
property and in such manner that the motor vehicle is not visible from the
street or from other public or private property.
   B.    Any operable historic or antique motor vehicle over twenty five (25)
years of age or any special interest motor vehicle retained by the owner for
collection purposes rather than for the salvage of parts or for transportation.
   C.    Any motor vehicle stored at a location of business involved in the
repairing, recycling, salvaging, scrap processing or junking of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
7-15-5: REMOVAL OF HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLE
   A.    Whenever a motor vehicle located within the city boundaries,
regardless of whether on public or private property, has been determined to be
a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle pursuant to section 11-40-3.1 of the
Illinois municipal code 1 , its removal and impoundment by a towing service may
be authorized by the police department after a reasonable attempt has been made
to have the vehicle removed by the registered owner, lien holder or any other
person legally entitled to possession of the vehicle.
   B.    If an unattended and inoperable motor vehicle is creating a traffic
hazard or otherwise impeding the flow of traffic by its physical appearance or
location on or adjacent to a public trafficway, its immediate removal from the
public right of way or adjacent private property may be authorized by a member
of the police department.
   C.    When an inoperable, hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle removal from
either public or private property is authorized by the police department, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing, storage and disposal
charges. (Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5.
7-15-6: DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLE
   A.    Any hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this article and section 11-40-3.1 of the Illinois municipal code
1 , whether impounded at a public facility or on the property of a private
towing service, shall be kept in custody for a period of at least ten (10)
business days for the purpose of determining the identity of and contacting the
registered owner, lien holder or any other person legally entitled to
possession of the vehicle.
   B.    The police department must make every effort within a period of ten
(10) business days after the towing and removal of the vehicle to contact and
notify the registered owner, lien holder or any other person legally entitled
to possession thereof, either in person or by regular first class U.S. mail, as
to how to obtain the release of the vehicle from the police department and the
towing service in order to reclaim possession of the vehicle.
   C.    If after the expiration of the ten (10) business day period, the
police department is still unable to identify a registered owner, a lien holder
or any other person legally entitled to the possession of the motor vehicle in
accordance with the provisions of this article, then the chief of police or one
of his duly authorized representatives may authorize the disposal of the
hazardous, dilapidated motor vehicle or parts thereof for recycling, scrap
processing or as junk. (Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5.
7-15-7: LIABILITY
   Members of the police department and the towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for any damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, a lien holder or other person legally entitled
to possession of the motor vehicle when the vehicle was towed or disposed of as
provided by this article. (Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
7-15-8: PENALTY
   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this article
is guilty of a petty offense, and:
   A.    Shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 822, 11-21-2006)
CHAPTER 8
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
   
8-1-1: Title
   
8-1-2: Purpose
   
8-1-3: Legal Authority
   
8-1-4: Geographic Jurisdiction
   
8-1-5: Validity
   
8-1-6: Effective Date
   
8-1-7: Definitions
8-1-1: TITLE
   This Chapter shall be known as the "Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City
of Lanark, Illinois", may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as
"this Chapter".
8-1-2: PURPOSE
   To regulate the subdividing of land within the Lanark area so that new
additions will be integrated with the Comprehensive Plan for the City and will
contribute to an attractive, stable and wholesome community environment.
8-1-3: LEGAL AUTHORITY
   This Chapter is enacted in pursuance of the authority granted by "An Act to
revise and codify the laws relating to cities, villages and incorporated towns
and to repeal acts and parts of acts therein named", approved May 29, 1961, as
amended.
8-1-4: GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION
   The geographic jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be the area within the
corporate limits of the City and the area extending one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond its corporate limits.
8-1-5: VALIDITY
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions thereof.
8-1-6: EFFECTIVE DATE
   This Chapter shall be effective from and after October 26, 1975.
8-1-7: DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words used herein are defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A public right of way usually less than twenty feet (20') in width which
normally affords a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property.
ARTERIAL/FEEDER STREET: A street which provides for the movement of relatively
heavy traffic to, from or within the City. It has a secondary function of
providing access to abutting land. An arterial street system is designated on
Lanark's Comprehensive Plan.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which collects and distributes internal traffic
within an urban area such as a residential neighborhood, between arterial and
local streets. It provides access to abutting property.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: That policy document which serves as a guide for future
physical development of the City and entitled "Proposed Comprehensive Plan,
Lanark, Illinois".
CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having but one end open to traffic and the other end
being permanently terminated to a vehicular turn around.
HALF STREET: A street having only one-half (1/2) of its intended roadway width
to accommodate traffic.
LOCAL STREET: A street of little or no continuity designed to provide access to
abutting property and leading into collector streets.
LOT: A piece, parcel or plot of land intended for building development or as a
unit for transfer of ownership.
PLAT: The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of subdivision
is presented to the City Council for approval.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or,
if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided, that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five (5)
acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision.
The term includes resubdivision, and when appropriate to the context, shall
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
ARTICLE 2
PLAT PRESENTATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
   
8-2-1: Procedures Generally
   
8-2-2: Pre-Application Meeting
   
8-2-3: Preliminary Plat Approval
   
8-2-4: Final Plat Approval
8-2-1: PROCEDURES GENERALLY
   The following procedures shall be followed in the administration of this
Chapter and no real property within the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be
subdivided and offered for sale or a plat recorded until a pre-application
meeting has been held and a preliminary plat and final plat of the proposed
subdivision have been reviewed by the Planning Commission and its technical
assistants and until the final plat has been approved by the City Council as
set forth in the procedures provided herein.
8-2-2: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING
   Prior to the submission of any plat for consideration to the Planning
Commission under the provisions of this Chapter, the subdivider shall meet with
the Planning Commission, or any individual to whom the Commission may delegate
this responsibility, to introduce himself as a potential subdivider and learn
what shall be expected of him in such capacity.
8-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
   A.    The subdivider engages a qualified land planner or registered land
surveyor to prepare a preliminary plat of the area to be subdivided.
   B.    The subdivider shall submit six (6) copies of the preliminary plat to
the City Clerk two (2) weeks prior to the next regular Planning Commission
meeting.
   C.    The City Clerk shall submit one copy of the preliminary plat each to
the Planning Commission, the City Consulting Engineer, and if desired, to the
Planning Consultant no later than three (3) days after its receipt.
   D.    The City Engineer and the Planning Consultant shall review the
preliminary plat and submit a report of their reaction to the Planning
Commission before its next regular scheduled meeting.
   E.    The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat considering
the reports of the Engineer and Planning Consultant and either rejects,
approves subject to revision, or approves the proposal within thirty (30) days
of the date on which it was filed with the City Clerk. If disapproved, the
Commission sets forth the grounds for such refusal in its proceedings and
transmits them to the subdivider. If approved, the design is thereby accepted
as a basis for the preparation of the final plat.
8-2-4: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
   A.    The subdivider engages a registered land surveyor to prepare a final
plat which may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time.
   B.    The subdivider shall submit six (6) copies of the final plat to the
City Clerk at least two (2) weeks before the next regularly scheduled Planning
Commission meeting and within one year of preliminary plat approval.
   C.    The Planning Commission shall study the final plat and transmit its
action to the City Council within thirty (30) days from the date on which it
was filed with the City Clerk.
   D.    The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the final plat within
sixty (60) days of filing after having given thirty (30) days published notice
thereof in the official Municipal newspaper.
   E.    The City Council shall act upon the final plat within sixty (60) days
of filing, whereupon the City Clerk notifies the subdivider of the Council's
action.
   F.    The subdivider shall file the final plat with the City Clerk within
thirty (30) days of final plat approval.
   G.    The subdivider shall record the final plat with the Carroll County
Recorder of Deeds within thirty (30) days of final plat approval; otherwise,
the approval of the final plat shall be considered void.
   H.    The subdivider shall furnish a duplicate and five (5) paper prints of
the final plat as recorded, to the City Clerk.
ARTICLE 3
PLAT PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
   
8-3-1: Preliminary Plat
   
8-3-2: Final Plat
8-3-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT
   A.    Scale: one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
   B.    Identification and Description:
      1.    Proposed name of subdivision.
      2.    Location by section, town, range or by other legal description.
      3.    Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and designer
of the plan.
      4.    Graphic scale.
      5.    North point.
      6.    Date of preparation.
      7.    Private restrictions, if any:
         a.    Boundaries of each type of use restrictions;
         b.    Other private restrictions for each restricted section of the
subdivision.
   C.    Existing conditions in tract and in surrounding area to a distance of
three hundred feet (300'):
      1.    Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly indicated.
      2.    Total approximate acreage.
      3.    Platted streets, railroad right of way and utility easements.
      4.    Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided land.
      5.    Sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities.
      6.    Permanent buildings or structures.
      7.    Topography, showing water courses, marsh areas and contours at
vertical intervals of no more than two feet (2'). All elevation data shall be
mean sea level.
      8.    Other information, such as soil tests, if requested by the Planning
Commission to aid in its review.
   D.    Subdivision Design Features:
      1.    Layout and width of proposed streets and utility easements showing
street names, lot dimensions, parks and other public areas. The street layout
shall include all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider.
      2.    Proposed use of all parcels, and if zoning change is contemplated,
proposed rezoning.
      3.    Preliminary street grades and drainage plan shall be shown on a
copy of the contour map.
8-3-2: FINAL PLAT
   A.    Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, drainage and flood control.
   B.    Soil borings, if required by the Planning Commission.
   C.    Data required under regulations by the Carroll County Surveyor, i.e.,
accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles and curvatures
used to describe boundaries, streets, easements and other important features.
   D.    An identification system for all lots and blocks.
   E.    The size (in square feet) and dimensions of all lots.
   F.    Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and markers thereon
exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details are correct.
   G.    Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas.
   H.    Certification showing that all taxes currently due on the property to
be subdivided have been paid in full.
   I.    A list of all covenants and restrictions that the subdivider intends
to attach to the subdivision not covered above.
   J.    Form for Approval by the Planning Commission:
      This            day of                , 19     
      Signed                                                   
         Chairman
      Signed                                                   
         Secretary
   K.    Form for Approval by the City Council:
      This            day of                , 19     
      Signed                                                   
         Mayor
      Signed                                                   
         City Clerk
ARTICLE 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
   
8-4-1: Purpose
   
8-4-2: Circulation
   
8-4-3: Easements
   
8-4-4: Blocks
   
8-4-5: Lots
8-4-1: PURPOSE
   Generally, design standards shall assure that the layout of the subdivision
harmonizes with existing plans affecting the development and its surroundings
and shall be in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan for the development of
the entire area.
8-4-2: CIRCULATION
   A.    General Street Design:
      1.    The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water and to the proposed uses of
the area to be served.
      2.    Where new streets extend existing adjoining streets, their
projections shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the
minimum required width.
      3.    Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of
streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper projection of
streets. When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to being
subdivided, then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of such
unsubdivided land.
   B.    Street Width and Grades: The following standards of street design
shall be observed by the subdivider:
 
Street Category Minimum Width Right Minimum Width Maximum Grade* Minimum Grade
                of Way              Pavement
Arterial/Feeder 80 feet             Varies        5%             0.5%
Collector       66 feet             40 feet       5%             0.5%
Local           66 feet             36 feet       6%             0.5%
 
*   to assure a safe and reasonable sight distance at intersections a lesser
maximum grade may be required.
   C.    Street Jogs: Street jogs with center line off-sets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   D.    Street Intersections: Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at
right angles and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than sixty
degrees (60). It must be evidenced that safe and efficient traffic flow is
encouraged.
   E.    Cul-De-Sacs: Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be
four hundred feet (400') measured along the center line from the intersection
of origin to end of right of way. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the
closed end with a turnaround having a minimum outside roadway diameter of
eighty feet (80'), and a minimum street property line diameter of one hundred
feet (100').
   F.    Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where the City
Council finds it to be practicable to require the dedication of the other half
when the adjoining property is subdivided.
   G.    Street Names: Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing
and named streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. In no other
cases shall the name of the proposed street duplicate existing street names,
including phonetical similarities.
   H.    Private Streets: Public improvements shall not be approved for any
private street.
   I.    Access to Arterial Streets and Highways: Where a proposed plat is
adjacent to a major thoroughfare spacing between access points to such
thoroughfares of less than six hundred sixty feet (660') shall be avoided
except where impractical or impossible due to existing property divisions or
topography.
   J.    Hardship to Owners of Adjoining Property: The street arrangements
shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in
platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
   K.    Corners: Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a
radius of not less than ten feet (10').
   L.    Alleys: Alleys shall be prohibited in residential areas unless special
permission is granted by the City Council for their provision. Alley
intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where
necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular
movement. Dead-end alleys shall be avoided, but if unavoidable, shall be
provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end, as determined by
the City Consulting Engineer.
8-4-3: EASEMENTS
   A.    Utilities: Where alleys are not provided, easements of at least ten
feet (10') wide centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for utilities
where necessary. Easements for storm or sanitary sewers shall be at least
twenty feet (20') wide. They shall have continuity of alignment from block to
block. Temporary construction easements may be required where installation
depths are greater than ten feet (10').
   B.    Watercourses: When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourses.
8-4-4: BLOCKS
   A.    Length: Block lengths shall not exceed eight hundred feet (800') and
shall not be less than four hundred feet (400').
   B.    Pedestrian Ways: In blocks longer than six hundred feet (600'), a
pedestrian crossway with a minimum right of way of ten feet (10') may be
required near the center of the block. The use of additional accessways to
schools, parks and other destinations may also be required.
8-4-5: LOTS
   A.    Layout: Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines. Lots with frontage on
two (2) parallel streets shall be avoided.
   B.    Size and Dimension: Minimum lot areas and lateral dimensions shall be
as set forth in the Lanark Zoning Ordinance.
   C.    Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be platted at least ten percent (10%)
wider than the minimum lot width required.
   D.    Natural Features: In the subdivision of land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
   E.    Lots Along Thoroughfares: There shall be no direct vehicular access
from residential lots to arterial streets or highways and residential lots
shall be separated from railroad right of way by a twenty five foot (25')
buffer strip, which may be in the form of added depth or width of lots backing
on or siding on the railroad right of way.
   F.    Lot Remnants: Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must
be added to adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an
unusable outlot or parcel unless the owner can show plans for the future use of
such remnant.
ARTICLE 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
   
8-5-1: Monuments
   
8-5-2: Streets
   
8-5-3: Utilities
   
8-5-4: Drainage Facilities
   
8-5-5: Tree Planting
   
8-5-6: Specifications
   
8-5-7: Financing
8-5-1: MONUMENTS
   Steel monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle points, points
of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shown on the final plat. All
U.S., State, County or other official bench marks, monuments, or triangulation
stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
8-5-2: STREETS
   All streets shall be graded and surfaced and provided with curb and gutter
in accordance with specifications as shall be determined to be necessary by the
City Consulting Engineer.
8-5-3: UTILITIES
   A.    Sanitary sewer and water mains and laterals shall be installed in all
new subdivisions and shall be connected to the community system in an
appropriate manner. Water and sanitary sewer laterals shall be laid to the
property line ending at the corporation cock.
   B.    Water mains and laterals shall be laid to the specifications of the
American Waterworks Association and the Bureau of Fire Underwriters. Sanitary
sewer mains and laterals shall be laid to the specifications of the State of
Illinois Board of Health.
   C.    All utilities, whether private or public, shall be installed
underground so as to enhance the visual appearance of the area. Where utilities
are to be installed in street or alley right of way, such installation shall
take place prior to street surfacing. (1982 Code)
8-5-4: DRAINAGE FACILITIES
   Storm sewer and/or other surface drainage facilities shall be installed as
determined to be necessary by the city consulting engineer for the proper
drainage of surface water. (1982 Code)
8-5-5: TREE PLANTING 1
   Boulevard trees shall be planted in the rights of way of all streets at the
rate of at least one tree per lot. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6, article 5 of this code.
8-5-6: SPECIFICATIONS
   Unless otherwise stated, all of the required improvements shall conform to
engineering standards and specifications as required by the city council. Such
improvements shall be made in sequence as determined by the city consulting
engineer. (1982 Code)
8-5-7: FINANCING
   Before a final plat is approved by the city council, the subdivider shall
submit an agreement and performance bond or cash escrow agreement to assure the
following:
   A.   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all improvements required in
the subdivision.
   B.    Guaranteed completion of the required improvements within a two (2)
year period.
   C.    Payment by the subdivider for all costs incurred by the municipality
for review and inspection. This would include preparation and review of plans
and specifications by the consulting engineer, planner and attorney, as well as
other costs of a similar nature.
   D.    The city may elect to install any of the required improvements under
the terms of a cash escrow agreement.
   E.    The performance bond or cash escrow agreement shall be equal to one
and one-fourth (11/4) times the consulting engineer's estimated cost of the
required improvements.
   F.    If the required improvements are not completed within the two (2) year
period, all amounts held under the escrow agreement or performance bond shall
be turned over and delivered to the city and applied to the cost of the
required improvements. Any balance remaining after such improvements have been
made shall be returned to the owner or subdivider. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
   
8-6-1: Responsible Official
   
8-6-2: Building Permit
   
8-6-3: Variances
   
8-6-4: Violation
   
8-6-5: Discretionary Financial Assistance
8-6-1: RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL
   It shall be the duty of the City Council to see that the provisions of this
Chapter are properly enforced. (1982 Code)
8-6-2: BUILDING PERMIT
   No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement on any land henceforth
subdivided until all requirements of this Chapter have been fully complied
with. (1982 Code)
8-6-3: VARIANCES
   Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the provisions of this Chapter the City
Council shall have the power to vary from the requirements of this Chapter in
harmony with the general purpose and intent thereof. (1982 Code)
8-6-4: VIOLATION
   Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days. Each day a
violation is allowed to continue it shall be construed as a separate offense.
(1982 Code)
8-6-5: DISCRETIONARY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
   The "Land Subdivision Ordinance of the City of Lanark, Illinois", and a
subdivider's desire for financial assistance are not related. The Land
Subdivision Ordinance governs the division of land and the improvements
required thereon. A subdivider who desires financial assistance for the
installation of water mains, sanitary sewers, drains or other facilities for
sewers and drains, the construction of any roadways or the installation of any
traffic signals or other traffic-related improvements in a proposed new
subdivision may make a request of the City Council for such assistance.
   The provision of any financial assistance to any subdivider is solely within
the discretion of the City Council. All requests for financial assistance shall
be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the City Council. The City Council shall
consult with the appropriate City Council committees, including the Finance
Committee relating to the City's finances, the City Zoning Officer and the City
Attorney.
   In the exercise of its discretion in determining whether the City should
provide financial assistance to a subdivider, the City Council may consider,
but is not limited to, the following:
   A.    The financial ability of the City to provide assistance.
   B.    The cost of the proposed assistance.
   C.    The nature of the particular development for which assistance is
requested.
   D.    The need for the particular development for which assistance is
requested.
   E.    The character and reputation of the subdividers.
   The provision of financial assistance in any one instance shall have no
precedential value in the evaluation of any other requests for financial
assistance. (Ord. 688, 7-2-1996)
CHAPTER 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
   
9-1-1: Adoption Of Code
   
9-1-2: Local Revisions To Code
   
9-1-3: Conflict
   
9-1-4: Violations, Penalties And Injunctions
9-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODE
   The "International Property Maintenance Code", 2018 edition, as published by
the International Code Council (ICC), is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Lanark. Future updates of the International
Property Maintenance Code shall be automatically adopted by the City of Lanark,
following the review and acceptance by the Lanark Zoning Officer with notice
given to the Lanark City Council of the updated Code and any revisions applied
thereto by the Lanark Zoning Officer. (Ord. 892, 10-7-2014; amd. Ord. 989, 6-7-
2022)
9-1-2: LOCAL REVISIONS TO CODE
   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code are
hereby revised as follows:
   A.   All reference to the "International Plumbing Code" shall be substituted
to read "Illinois Plumbing Code".
   B.   All reference to the "International Zoning Code" shall be substituted
to read "City of Lanark Zoning Ordinance".
   C.   All reference to the "chief appointing authority" shall be substituted
to read "Mayor of the City of Lanark".
   D.   The responsibilities of the "code official" shall be executed by the
City of Lanark Zoning Officer.
   E.   Section 101.1 Title. Insert: City of Lanark.
   F.   Section 103.5 Fees. Language shall read: "The fees for activities and
services performed by the City of Lanark in carrying out its responsibilities
under this code shall be those fees as shall be established by ordinance of the
city council from time to time."
   G.   Section 111.2.4 Secretary. Language shall read: "The Code Official
shall serve as secretary to the board. The secretary shall file a detailed
record of all proceedings in the office of the chief administrative officer."
   H.   Section 112.4 Failure to comply. Insert: Fifty (50.00) and Five Hundred
(500.00).
   I.   Section 304.14 insect screens. Insert: March 1 to December 1.
   J.   Section 602.3 Heat supply. Insert: September 1 to May 1.
   K.   Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Insert: September 1 to June 1.
(Ord. 969, 8-20-2019; amd. Ord. 989, 6-7-2022)
9-1-3: CONFLICT
   Where there is a conflict with an existing ordinance of the City of Lanark
and this code, the Property Maintenance Code shall govern. (Ord. 892, 10-7-
2014; amd. Ord. 989, 6-7-2022)
9-1-4: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND INJUNCTIONS
   A.   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
article shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first violation, and not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the
second and each subsequent violation. Each day that a violation occurs or
continues shall be a separate violation. Enforcement proceedings may be
commenced by either a notice to appear or by a summons.
   B.   In addition to any remedies available at law, the City of Lanark may
bring an action for an injunction or other process against a person to
restrain, prevent or abate any violation of any city ordinance. (Ord. 892, 10-
7-2014; amd. Ord. 989, 6-7-2022)
CHAPTER 10
ZONING
ARTICLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
   
10-1-1: Short Title
   
10-1-2: Purpose
   
10-1-3: Geographic Jurisdiction
   
10-1-4: Legal Authority
   
10-1-5: Interpretation of Provisions
   
10-1-6: Application of Regulations
   
10-1-7: Separability
   
10-1-8: Public Utility Exemptions
   
10-1-9: Effective Date
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE
   This Chapter shall be known as the "Lanark Zoning Ordinance", may be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as "this Chapter".
10-1-2: PURPOSE
   The basic purpose of this Chapter is to insure public health, safety and
general welfare in accordance with the adopted development goals, plans, and
policies as stated in the Proposed Comprehensive Plan, Lanark, Illinois toward
this end, this Chapter shall divide the geographic area within its jurisdiction
into use districts and shall establish regulations pertaining to the location,
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of structures and
land within said area.
10-1-3: GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION
   The geographic jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be the entire area within
the corporate limits of the City and the area extending one and one-half (1 1/
2) miles beyond such corporate limits.
10-1-4: LEGAL AUTHORITY
   This Chapter is enacted in pursuance of the authority granted by "An Act to
revise and codify the laws relating to cities, villages and incorporated towns
and to repeal acts and parts of acts therein named", approved May 29, 1961, as
amended.
10-1-5: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS
   A.    In their interpretation, the provisions of this Chapter shall be held
to be the minimum requirement for the promotion of public health, safety and
general welfare.
   B.    This Chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenants, or
other private agreement; provided, that where the regulations of this Chapter
are more restrictive or impose higher standards of requirements than such
private agreement, the regulations of this Chapter shall govern.
10-1-6: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   A.    No building or land within the geographic jurisdiction of this Chapter
shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building or part thereof shall be
erected, moved or altered unless in conformity with the regulations herein
specified.
   B.    No part of a yard or other open space required about any building for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this Chapter shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
building.
10-1-7: SEPARABILITY
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter.
10-1-8: PUBLIC UTILITY EXEMPTIONS
   Nothing contained within this Chapter shall have any control over the type
or location of any poles, towers, wires, cables, conduits, vaults, laterals or
any other similar distributing equipment of a public utility as defined in "An
Act Concerning Public Utilities" enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Illinois.
10-1-9: EFFECTIVE DATE
   This Chapter shall be effective on and after November 26, 1973.
ARTICLE 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
   
10-2-1: Rules for Construction of Language
   
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE
   The language set forth in the text of this Chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules and definitions, except when the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
   A.    Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   B.    Words used in the singular shall include the plural and the plural the
singular.
   C.    The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   D.    The word "may" is permissive.
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: Any subordinate building or use which is customary
incident to the principal building or use and which is located on the same lot
as such principal building or use.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, forestry,
horticulture and gardening, including the keeping or raising of domestic
animals and fowl.
ALLEY: A public right of way usually sixteen feet to twenty feet (16' to 20')
in width which normally affords a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: A building so constructed or so located on a lot that
it does not comply with the building requirements or with the minimum lot
requirements of the district within which it is located.
COMMERCE: An enterprise that involves the offering of a product, service or
entertainment for compensation.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, designed or used predominantly for
residential occupancy, including one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
and multiple family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses, tourist homes or mobile homes.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: One which is joined to another dwelling or building at one
or more sides by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: One which is entirely surrounded by open space on the same
lot.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms containing complete kitchen facilities,
permanently installed, which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use
exclusively as living quarters for one family and for not more than an
aggregate of two (2) roomers or boarders.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A residential structure containing one dwelling unit
only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A residential structure containing two (2)
dwelling units only.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY (APARTMENT BUILDING): A building or portion thereof
containing three (3) or more dwelling units but not including a motel, hotel or
rooming house.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit with one primary room which doubles as a
living room, dining room and bedroom.
ESTABLISHMENT, COMMERCIAL: A place of business carrying on operations which
involve the offering of a product, service or entertainment for compensation.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption or a group
of not more than five (5) persons not so related, maintaining a common
household in a dwelling unit.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or
from the center line of party walls separating two (2) buildings. In
particular, "floor area" shall include:
   A.    Basement space if at least one-half (1/2) of the basement story is
above established curb level, or where the curb level has not been established,
above the average level of the finished grade.
   B.    Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor.
   C.    Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural
headroom exceeds seven and one-half feet (7 1/2'), except equipment open or
enclosed, located on the roof, i.e., bulk needs, water tanks and cooling
towers.
   D.    Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven and one-
half feet (7 1/2').
   E.    Interior balconies and mezzanines.
   F.    Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways.
   G.    Accessory uses, other than floor space devoted exclusively to
accessory off- street parking or loading.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the occupant of a dwelling in a
residential district as a secondary use including but not limited to such
occupations as dressmaking and alterations and artist's studio.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when
such sign is in use. For the purpose of this ordinance, any revolving,
illuminated sign shall be considered a "flashing sign".
SIGN, ROOF: A sign erected upon the roof of any building.
STORY: That part of a building between the surface of a floor and the ceiling
immediately above.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street which provides for the movement of relatively heavy
traffic to, from or within the City. It has a secondary function of providing
access to abutting land. An arterial street system is designated on Lanark
Comprehensive Plan.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which collects and distributes internal traffic
within an urban area such as a residential neighborhood, between arterial and
local streets. It provides access to abutting property.
STREET, LOCAL: A street of little or no continuity, designed to provide access
to abutting property and ideally leading into collector street.
TOXIC MATTER or MATERIAL: Those materials which are capable of causing injury
to living organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis designed to
be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation uses.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A use subordinate to the principal use of building on the same
lot and customarily incidental thereto as well as detached therefrom.
USE, INCOMPATIBLE: A use which is incapable of direct association with certain
other uses because it is contradictory, incongruent or discordant.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any lawfully established use of a building or premise which
on the effective date of this Chapter does not comply with the use regulations
of the zoning district in which such building or premises is located.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: A use, either public or private, which because of the unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in a
particular district. After due consideration in each case, of the impact of
such use upon neighboring land, and of the public need for the particular use
at the particular location, such "special" use may or may not be granted.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the lowest level to the
sky, except as hereinafter permitted. A yard extends along a lot line and at
right angles to such lot lines to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines.
YARD, REAR: The portion of the yard on the same lot with the building between
the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot for the full width
of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
yards.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas for which the regulations and requirements
governing use, lot and bulk of buildings and premises are uniform.
ZONING MAP: The map setting forth the boundaries of the zoning districts of the
Municipality, which map is a part of this Chapter.
ARTICLE 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
   
10-3-1: Districts
   
10-3-2: Map
   
10-3-3: Boundaries
   
10-3-4: Annexed Territory
10-3-1: DISTRICTS
   In order to carry out the purpose of this Chapter, the geographic area
within the jurisdiction of this Chapter is hereby divided into the following
use districts:
Agriculture District:
A  Agriculture
Residence Districts:
R1 Low Density Residence
R2 Medium Density Residence
Commerce Districts:
C1 Highway/Auto Commerce
C2 Downtown Commerce
C3 Mixed Residential and Commercial
Industry District:
I  Industry
 
(1982 Code; amd. Ord. 692, 9-17-1996)
10-3-2: MAP
   The location and the boundaries of the zoning districts established by this
Chapter are set forth on the Zoning Districts Map which is incorporated as a
part of this Chapter. (1982 Code)
10-3-3: BOUNDARIES
   District boundary lines as indicated on the Zoning Districts Map follow lot
lines, right-of-way lines of streets or alleys, right-of-way lines of streets
or alleys projected, railroad right-of-way lines, the corporate limit lines,
all as they exist upon the effective date of this Chapter. If said boundary
lines do not follow any of the above described lines, the district boundary
lines are established as drawn on the Zoning Districts Map. (1982 Code)
10-3-4: ANNEXED TERRITORY
   Any land which may be annexed to the Municipality in the future shall be
placed in the A Agriculture District until special action of the City Council
shall definitely assign such land to another district. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 4
A AGRICULTURAL
SECTION:
   
10-4-1: Intent
   
10-4-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-4-3: Uses by Special Permit
10-4-1: INTENT
   The intent of this Article in establishing an Agricultural District is to
allow maximum freedom of operation for agricultural uses, and to protect such
uses from untimely encroachment by potential conflicting uses. It is also the
intent to protect the natural amenities of the Lanark area from harmful
exploitation.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the City and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond the
corporate limits for any purpose other than listed below. (1982 Code)
10-4-2: USES PERMITTED
   A.    Farmsteads and agricultural operation including residences of the farm
owners or tenants and their immediate families.
   B.    One-family nonfarm dwellings including the keeping of animals such as
horses, provided such dwellings are located on soils that are suitable for the
use of septic tanks.
   C.    Public parks and other recreational uses of a noncommercial nature.
   D.    The renting of no more than one apartment or two (2) rooms for lodging
purposes in a one-family residence.
   E.    Customary home occupations, provided that:
      1.    Such occupation is carried on in the principal building.
      2.    Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of
the residence is used for this purpose.
      3.    Only articles made or originating on the premises shall be sold on
the premises.
      4.    No person is employed other than a member of the household residing
on the premises.
   F.    Cemeteries.
   G.    Customary accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses
such as private garages, screen houses, signs and play equipment. (1982 Code)
   H.    Multiple-family residences of up to two (2) stories in height. (Ord.
659, 3-15-94)
10-4-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
   A.    Recreation facilities of a commercial or semi-public nature such as
golf courses, pistol and rifle ranges, sportsmen's clubs and resorts.
   B.    Nurseries and greenhouses.
   C.    Structures for the storage of farm crop products such as grain and
corn.
   D.    Kennels and veterinary establishments.
   E.    Roadside stands for the sale of farm products.
   F.    Other uses similar in nature to the above uses and which, in the
opinion of the City Council will not be detrimental to the integrity of the
Agricultural District. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 5
R1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENCE
SECTION:
   
10-5-1: Intent
   
10-5-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-5-3: Uses By Special Permit
10-5-1: INTENT
   The intent of this article in establishing a low density residence district
is to provide for the normal outward residential expansion of Lanark according
to current standards of development, and to protect the desired quiet living
environment from encroachment from potential conflicting uses.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the city and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits from any purpose other than as listed below. (1982 Code)
10-5-2: USES PERMITTED
Churches and public and parochial schools.
Customary accessory uses incidental to the principal uses such as private
garages, sheds, gazebos, screened in structures, outdoor furnaces, signs and
play equipment provided that:
   A.    A freestanding principal dwelling shall exist as the main use of the
lot area, prior to the installation of any accessory structures.
   B.    Any subordinate use of an accessory structure shall conform to the
provisions applicable to the principal dwelling.
   C.    In the event that a party owns two (2) or more adjoining lots and
intends to build or has built a residence on these multiple lots, said multiple
lots shall be considered a single lot for purposes of this provision of the
zoning ordinance. The adjoining lots must adjoin along a substantial portion of
their boundary lines and two (2) lots which are adjoining only at a point where
two (2) corners come together shall not be considered adjoining lots for
purposes of the zoning ordinance.
Customary home occupations provided that:
   A.    Such occupation is carried on in the principal building.
   B.    Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the
residence is used for this purpose.
   C.    Only articles made or originating on the premises shall be sold on the
premises unless such articles are incidental to a permitted commercial service.
   D.    No articles for sale shall be displayed so as to be visible from any
street.
   E.    No mechanical or electrical equipment is used if the operation of such
equipment interferes with the desired quiet residential environment of the
neighborhood.
Farmsteads and agricultural operations including residences of the farm owners
or tenants and their immediate families.
One- and two-family detached dwellings.
Public parks, playgrounds, athletic fields and other recreational uses of a
noncommercial nature.
The renting of rooms by a resident family for lodging purposes only, and for
not more than two (2) roomers in a one-family dwelling.
(1982 Code; amd. Ord. 777, 11-25-2003)
10-5-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
Fire station, city hall, library, court house, hospital, nursing home, old age
home, rest home, cemetery and similar uses of a public service nature.
Mobile home courts subject to section 10-11-5 of this chapter.
Multiple-family dwellings of up to two (2) stories in height.
Nurseries and greenhouses.
Roadside stands for the sale of farm products. (1982 Code; amd. Ord. 659, 3-15-
1994)
ARTICLE 6
R2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENCE
SECTION:
   
10-6-1: Intent
   
10-6-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-6-3: Uses by Special Permit
10-6-1: INTENT
   The intent of this Article in establishing a Medium Density Residence
District is to protect those residential areas of Lanark that were developed in
most part prior to World War II, from encroachment from potential conflicting
uses, and to provide for future residential and related development and
redevelopment consistent with proper existing development and with minimum
standards for the provision of health, light, air and visual appeal.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the City and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits for any purpose other than as listed below. (1982 Code)
10-6-2: USES PERMITTED
   Same as permitted in the R1 Low Density Residence District. (1982 Code)
10-6-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
   Same as permitted in the special uses in the R1 Low Density Residence
District. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 7
C1 HIGHWAY/AUTO COMMERCE
SECTION:
   
10-7-1: Intent
   
10-7-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-7-3: Uses By Special Permit
10-7-1: INTENT
   The intent of this Article in establishing a Highway/Auto Commerce District
is to provide appropriate areas for commercial establishments which are
oriented to the motoring public or which require large sites for off-street
parking or display of merchandise. Additionally, the establishment of such
District is in recognition of existing uses of this nature in decentralized
locations, due in part to the past and present shortage of potential commercial
sites within the downtown area.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the City and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits for any purpose other than as listed below. (1982 Code)
10-7-2: USES PERMITTED
   A.    Commercial establishments which are oriented to the motorist such as
eating places, automobile service stations, auto repair shops, car washes and
motels.
   B.    Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses such as off-
street parking signs. (1982 Code)
   C.    Multiple-family residences of up to two (2) stories in height. (Ord.
659, 3-15-1994)
   D.    All uses which are permitted under C2 Downtown Commerce District may
be permitted. (Ord. 695, 10-1-1996)
10-7-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
   Commercial establishments requiring large sites for off-street parking or
for outdoor display and sales such as farm implement sales, mobile home sales,
and building material sales. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 8
C2 DOWNTOWN COMMERCE
SECTION:
   
10-8-1: Intent
   
10-8-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-8-3: Uses By Special Permit
10-8-1: INTENT
   The intent of this article in establishing a downtown commerce district is
in recognition of the existing downtown commercial development and the need for
its future expansion, rehabilitation and redevelopment.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the city and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits for any purpose other than as listed below. (1982 Code)
10-8-2: USES PERMITTED
   A.    Commercial establishments including but not limited to the following:
      1.    Retail establishments such as grocery, hardware, drug, clothing and
furniture stores; eating and drinking places; auto dealers; and automobile
service stations.
      2.    Personal services such as laundry, barber, shoe repair shop and
photography studio.
      3.    Professional services such as medical and dental clinic and
attorneys' offices.
      4.    Repair services such as auto, jewelry and radio and television
repair shops.
      5.    Entertainment and amusement services such as motion picture theatre
and bowling alley.
      6.    Lodging services such as hotel and motel.
   B.    Tourist attractions such as historic structures and sites.
   C.    Public and semi-public buildings such as post office and city hall.
   D.    Private clubs.
   E.    Apartments, provided they are located above the first floor level.
   F.    Automobile parking lots.
   G.    Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses such as off-
street parking and loading and unloading areas, signs, storage of merchandise,
and wholesaling and manufacturing when incidental to a permitted use. (1982
Code)
   19
10-8-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
   None. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 8A
C3 MIXED RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL SECTION
SECTION:
   
10-8A-1: Intent
   
10-8A-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-8A-3: Uses By Special Permit
10-8A-1: INTENT
   The intent of this Article is to establish an area of mixed residential and
commercial uses. The purpose of this Article reflects areas along existing
highways which in the past have been used both for residential and commercial
purposes. It is the intent to reflect a situation that already exists and to
minimize the requirements of special uses and variances in areas that are
categorized as residential now but have traditionally had a commercial
influence.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the City and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits for any purpose other than as listed below. (Ord. 659, 3-15-
1994)
10-8A-2: USES PERMITTED
   A.    All uses which are permitted under Class C1 Highway/Auto Commerce
shall be permitted. (Ord. 659, 3-15-1994)
   B.    All uses which are permitted under R2 Medium Density Residential
District may be permitted. (Ord. 690, 9-5-1996)
10-8A-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
   A.    All uses by special permit which may be permitted under Class C1
Highway/Auto Commerce shall be permitted. (Ord. 659, 3-15-1994)
   B.    All uses by special permit which may be permitted under R2 Medium
Density Residential District may be permitted. (Ord. 690, 9-5-1996)
ARTICLE 9
I INDUSTRY
SECTION:
   
10-9-1: Intent
   
10-9-2: Uses Permitted
   
10-9-3: Uses by Special Permit
10-9-1: INTENT
   The intent of this Article in establishing an Industry District is in
recognition of existing industrial development within the community and of the
desirability of reserving additional land for possible new, expanded or
relocated industries. It is intended that land zoned for industry would be
located such that conflict with incompatible uses would be minimized.
   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any building or premises
within the City and within the area one and one-half (1 1/2) miles beyond its
corporate limits for any purpose other than as listed below. (1982 Code)
10-9-2: USES PERMITTED
   A.    All fabricating, manufacturing, processing or storage of materials,
goods and products provided the regulations set forth in Section
10-11-1 or this Article are complied with.
   B.    Wholesaling.
   C.    Accessory uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses. (1982 Code)
   D.    Multiple-family residences of up to two (2) stories in height. (Ord.
659, 3-15-94)
10-9-3: USES BY SPECIAL PERMIT
   None. (1982 Code)
ARTICLE 10
DISTRICT LOT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   
10-10-1: District Lot Regulations
10-10-1: DISTRICT LOT REGULATIONS
   It shall be unlawful to erect or alter any building within the City unless
the following minimum lot and yard areas and bulk controls are provided and
maintained in connection with such building.
   MINIMUM LOT REQUIREMENTS BY DISTRICT
         Area    Width Yard Setback Side      Side
District Sq. Ft. Feet  Frontb Rear  Interiorc Corner
                Area    Width Yard Setback Side      Side
District        Sq. Ft. Feet  Frontb Rear  Interiorc Corner

                                                
A                                                
One-family                                       
dwellings       1 acrea 150   30     35    15        25
                                                
R1                                               
One-family                                       
dwellings       10,000d 75d   30     35e   10f       15
                                                
Two-family                                       
dwellings       Variesg 90    30     35e   10f       15
                                                
Multiple-family                                  
dwellings       Variesg 100   30     35e   12        15
                                                
Other uses      10,000  90    30     15    15        20
                                                
R2                                               
One-family                                       
dwellings       7,200d  60d   30     35e   7h        10
                                                
Two-family                                       
dwellings       Variesi 75    30     35e   7h        10
                                                
Multiple-family                                  
dwellings       Variesi 90    30     35e   10        12
                                                
Other uses      8,500   75    30     15    12        15
                                                
C1                                               
All usesi       15,000  100   30     20    15        20
                                                
C2                                               
All uses        2,000   20    none   10    none      none
One-family                                       
dwellings       7,200d  60d   30     35e   7h        10
                                                
Two-family                                       
dwellings       Variesi 75d   30     35e   7h        10
                                                
Multiple-family                                  
dwellings       Variesi 90    30     35e   10        12
                                                
Commercial      15,000  100   30     20    15        20
                                                
I                                                
All usesi       15,000  100   30     20    12        20
                                                
 
(1982 Code; amd. Ord. 691, 9-5-1996)
Notes:
   a.   A lot area of less than one acre may be permitted if the owner or
developer can show by means of soil percolation tests that a lesser area would
be sufficient for the proper functioning of septic tanks but in no case shall a
one-family dwelling be built on a lot less than 1/2 acre in size. (1982 Code)
   b.   Where adjacent structures have front yard setbacks different from those
required, the minimum front yard setback shall be the average setback of said
structures. (Ord. 659, 3-15-1994)
   c.   Buildings over 11/2 stories in height shall require 5 feet for each
additional story in addition to the required minimum side yard.
   d.   A one-family dwelling may be erected on a lot having less than the
minimum required area and width provided the lot existed by virtue of a
recorded plat or deed at the time of passage of this Article; however, in no
event shall a one-family dwelling be erected on a lot less than 5,000 square
feet in area or less than 50 feet in width. (1982 Code)
   e.   Detached residential garages shall have a minimum rear yard of 5 feet.
In addition, there shall be no setback requirement for driveways to detached
residential garages and all other driveways located on property in the city.
There shall be no required setback on driveways to attached residential garages
or driveways on property going to any other type of building or acting as a
driveway without being connected to a building. It shall be permissible to have
driveways built on the boundary line of a property or, in the alternative,
located anywhere on the property that the owners desire. Nothing in this
subsection shall in any way confer a right for a driveway to be constructed in
a way in which it is allowed to constitute a trespass on adjoining property.
(Ord. 652, 5-18-1993)
   f.   Interior side yards may be 6 feet on the side where there is an
attached garage. Detached residential garages may be located within 4 feet of a
side lot line provided such garages are located within the required minimum
rear yard.
   g.   10,000 square feet for 1 dwelling unit plus 2,700 square feet for each
additional efficiency or 1 bedroom unit, and/or 3,600 square feet for each
additional unit containing 2 or more bedrooms.
   h.   Interior side yards may be 4 feet on the side where there is an
attached garage. Detached residential garages require no side yard provided
such garages are located within the required minimum rear yard.
   i.   10,000 square feet for 1 dwelling unit plus 2,200 square feet for each
additional efficiency or 1 bedroom unit, and/or 2,700 square feet for each
additional unit containing 2 or more bedrooms. (1982 Code)
   j.   An accessory structure such as a private garage, shed, gazebo, screened
in structure, outdoor furnace, sign, or play equipment shall not be constructed
or placed on a residential lot without an existing principal building already
present for residential occupancy.
   k.   A major residential accessory structure shall not be located in front
of the principal building or in the front yard of a lot area. Any accessory
structure shall be located within the minimum rear and side yard setbacks from
the lot lines. For purposes of this note, a "major residential accessory
structure" shall be considered a shed, garage, gazebo, screened in porch,
outdoor furnace or any other substantial construction. Small signs and play
equipment shall not be considered major structures and may be located in front
of the principal building or in the front yard of the lot area. Other small
easily moveable items may also be located in the front of the lot area. If a
dispute arises as to what is a major structure, a decision shall be rendered by
the zoning board of appeals and the decision shall be final. For purposes of
this note, attached garages which are located at the front of a residence shall
not be considered a violation of this note.
   l.   Any structure directly attached to a principal building shall not be
considered as accessory. The minimum separation distance between a detached
accessory structure and the principal building shall be 3 feet.
   m.   In the event that a party owns 2 or more adjoining lots and intends to
build or has built a residence on these multiple lots, said multiple lots shall
be considered a single lot for purposes of this provision of the zoning
ordinance. The adjoining lots must adjoin along a substantial portion of their
boundary lines and 2 lots which are adjoining only at a point where 2 corners
come together shall not be considered adjoining lots for purposes of the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 777, 11-25-2003)
ARTICLE 11
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
   
10-11-1: Performance Standards
   
10-11-2: Off Street Parking Requirements
   
10-11-3: Off Street Loading And Unloading Requirement
   
10-11-4: Signs
   
10-11-5: Mobile Homes
   
10-11-6: Minimum Dwelling Size
   
10-11-7: Dwelling Below Ground Level
   
10-11-8: Antennas
10-11-1: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
   The following regulations shall apply to all zoning districts unless
specifically stated otherwise. Determination of potential or actual
noncompliance with such special regulations shall be made by the city council
or its duly appointed agent.
   A.    Residential Features: No activity or operation shall be established or
maintained which by reason of its nature or manner of operation will cause the
emission of noise, odor, toxic or noxious fumes, smoke, dust and particulate
matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, welfare, and safety or cause injury to property or business.
   B.    Glare: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area or
sign shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential property or from the public streets. Direct or sky reflected glare,
whether from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property.
   C.    Explosives: No activities involving the storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials, goods or products which could decompose by detonation
shall be permitted except such as are specifically licensed by the city
council.
   D.    Vibration: No activity or operation shall cause earth vibrations
perceptible beyond the limits of the lot upon which the operation is located.
   E.    Activity Within Enclosed Buildings: All fabrication, manufacturing,
processing or production shall be undertaken within completely enclosed
buildings. (1982 Code)
   F.    Screening: (Rep. by Ord. 591, 8-6-1985)
   G.    Refuse: All waste material, debris, refuse, or garbage not disposed of
through the public sanitary sewerage system shall be kept in an enclosed
building or properly contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land
free of refuse.
   H.    Landscaping: In all but the C2 and I zoning districts, all developed
uses shall provide a landscaped yard along all streets. Such yard shall be kept
clear of all structures and storage except off street parking. Such yard shall
be at least eight feet (8') in depth along all streets, measured from the
street right of way. Except for driveways, the yard shall extend the entire
frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case of a corner lot.
   I.    Drainage: No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted
that results in water runoff, flooding, or erosion on adjacent properties. Such
runoff shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, watercourse, ponding
area, or other public facilities.
   J.    Construction Within Floodplain: No structure shall be permitted on any
land that is subject to flooding, except for park or recreation structures such
as picnic tables, shelters and barbecue pits. (1982 Code)
10-11-2: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
   A.    Minimum Number of Parking Spaces Required:
      1.    None required in C2 District (to be provided in common area).
      2.    Dwellings: 1 per dwelling unit.
      3.    Churches, auditoriums, mortuaries, and other similar places of
assembly: 1 per every 4 seats.
      4.    Sanitariums, convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes: 1 per
every 6 beds.
      5.    Retail Commerce other than in C2 District:
         Restaurants - 1 per every 3 seats.
         Other retail - 1 per every 100 square feet of retail floor space but
in no case less than 1.5 (gross parking area) to 1.0 (gross building floor
area).
      6.    Service Commerce other than in C2 District:
         Motels - 1 per unit.
         Personal and professional offices - 1 per every 150 square feet of
office floor space.
         Other Service Commerce - 1 per every 200 square feet of gross floor
space.
      7.    Industrial including wholesale: 1 per every 2 persons of maximum
employment during any work period.
   B.    Minimum Size of Parking Space: 250 square feet of standing and
maneuvering space. Fractional spaces over 1/2 count as one space.
   C.    Location of Parking Spaces:
      1.   Spaces for dwellings: On the same lot as the dwelling unit.
      2.    Spaces for commercial uses not in the C2 District or for public or
semipublic uses: Within 300 feet of the main entrance of the building served.
      3.    Spaces for industrial uses: Within 800 feet of the main entrance of
the building being served.
      4.    No off-street parking spaces to be located within 5 feet of any
street right of way. (1982 Code)
   D.    Surface and Drainage: Off-street parking areas and accessways other
than those for one and two-family dwellings shall be surfaced with a durable
material and shall be graded so as to dispose of all surface water. Nothing in
the proceeding paragraph shall prohibit the establishment or maintenance of a
parking area with a gravel surface. Provided, however, said gravel surface
shall be kept in an orderly manner, weeds shall not be allowed to grow in a way
that may be harmful to the City either from providing seeds to the adjoining
areas to providing an unpleasant view or otherwise detrimental to the well-
being of the City. Said graveled area shall be kept in a neat and orderly
appearance and a sufficient amount of gravel located on said gravel areas to
prevent large ruts or holes to appear in said parking area. (Ord. 591, 8-6-85)
10-11-3: OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS
   A.    Minimum Number of Off-Street Loading Spaces Required: An adequate
number of off-street loading spaces shall be provided for all structures which
require the receipt and distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles so as to assure unrestricted movement of both pedestrians and
motor vehicles throughout the active areas of Lanark.
   B.    Minimum Size of Off-Street Loading Berths:
      1.    Width: 10 feet.
      2.    Length: 25 feet.
      3.    Vertical Clearance: 14 feet.
   C.    Location of Off-Street Loading Berths: No closer than 25 feet from the
intersection of 2 street rights of way.
   D.    Surfacing and Drainage: Off-street loading berths and accessways shall
be hard surfaced to control dust and shall be graded to dispose of all surface
water.
10-11-4: SIGNS
   A.    The following signs shall be prohibited within the City:
      1.    Signs that, by reason of position, shape or color, would interfere
with the proper functioning of a traffic sign or signal.
      2.    Signs that resemble any official marker erected by a governmental
agency or that display the words "Stop" or "Danger".
      3.    Flashing signs.
      4.    Signs or sign structures that obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
for any building or structure. Signs painted on windows and doors are excepted.
      5.    Billboards.
      6.    Roof signs.
   B.    Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.    The owner, lessee, or manager of any ground sign or the owner of
the land on which the same is located, shall keep grass or weeds and other
growth cut, and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which
the sign is located.
      2.    Any sign or sign structure which may be, or may hereafter become
rotted, unsafe or unsightly shall be repaired or removed by the licensee, owner
or manager of the property upon which the sign stands upon written notice of
the Zoning Officer or police officer. (1982 Code)
10-11-5: MOBILE HOMES
   A.    All mobile homes within the City shall be located within a duly
permitted, designed and maintained mobile home court according to regulations
of this Article and to laws and regulations of the State.
   B.    The location of such mobile home court should be at the periphery of a
residential neighborhood and should be directly accessible from a collector or
arterial street as defined herein. The minimum size of a mobile home court
shall be two (2) acres.
   C.    The placement of mobile homes within mobile home courts shall comply
with yard requirements of the zoning district within which such court is
located. (1982 Code)
   D.    No permits of any type will be issued allowing the placement of a
single mobile home in District R1 Low Density Residence and R2 Medium Density
Residence. Single mobile homes may be allowed in any other district by special
use permit even though said districts may generally not allow special use
permits. This Section shall be interpreted in a way which is not in conflict
with relevant Illinois State statutes, and should a conflict develop, said
State statutes shall control.
   E.    At the time of the enactment of this Section, a number of mobile homes
are located within various districts in the City which said mobile homes
constitute prior nonconforming uses. Previously questions have arisen
concerning whether the mobile home shall constitute the prior nonconforming use
or whether the pad upon which said mobile home is located constitutes the prior
nonconforming use. In the event a mobile home, the site of which is clearly a
prior nonconforming use, is removed from its pad, it may be replaced by another
mobile home provided said replacement is placed upon the same spot within sixty
(60) days of removal. If the pad is allowed to remain vacant in excess of sixty
(60) days, the prior nonconforming use shall cease, and a second mobile home
may not be placed upon said site without obtaining a special use permit or
other provision allowing the placement of a new mobile home under the terms of
the City Zoning Ordinance. Any right to replace a mobile home on an existing
pad as a prior nonconforming use shall cease on the sixty first day after said
mobile home is removed.
   F.    Existing mobile home courts in the City may remain in existence and
may add or remove trailers without being subject to said sixty (60) day period.
(Ord. 659, 3-15-1994)
   G.    Resident structures which are commonly referred to as manufactured
sectional homes will not be restricted under the provisions of the mobile home
ordinance of the City and may be placed on all sites that are permissible for
all other types of residences provided they meet the following standards:
      1.    They shall have a minimum length of at least twenty feet (20') and
a minimum width of at least twenty feet (20').
      2.    If they arrive at the site by means of wheels fastened to the
structure, the wheels and all axles and all suspension items shall be
permanently removed.
      3.    They shall be placed on a permanent concrete foundation, either
with an enclosed basement or on a permanent cement slab foundation.
Provided all said requirements are satisfied, said homes shall not be
considered as mobile homes for any purposes under the terms of this subsection
G. (Ord. 710, 10-7-1997)
10-11-6: MINIMUM DWELLING SIZE
   The minimum gross floor area for a dwelling shall be nine hundred fifty
(950) square feet. (1982 Code)
10-11-7: DWELLING BELOW GROUND LEVEL
   No interior space below ground level shall be occupied for dwelling purposes
unless such space is part of a structure having at least one full story above
ground level and having its exterior portion in a structurally finished state.
This provision is limited to a prohibition against occupying a basement in
which at least one full story aboveground has not been completed. It shall not
apply to dwellings which are commonly referred to as earth sheltered dwellings
in which part or all of the dwelling is sheltered by earth or below ground
level when the structure is completed. (1982 Code)
10-11-8: ANTENNAS
   A.    No person shall construct an antenna, aerial or similar device with a
total height of greater than fifty feet (50') from the ground, and in the event
an aerial is placed on top of a building, including the height of the building,
except by special permit.
   B.    Said provision requiring a special permit for constructing aerials,
antennas or other structures higher than fifty feet (50') shall apply to all
zoning districts in the city of Lanark and shall only be permissible by special
permit anywhere within the city. (Ord. 754, 10-2-2001)
ARTICLE 12
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
   
10-12-1: Existing Use
   
10-12-2: Nonconforming Buildings
   
10-12-3: Nonconforming Use of Building or Land
10-12-1: EXISTING USE
   The lawful use of any land or buildings existing at the time of the adoption
of this Chapter may be continued, even if such use does not conform to the
regulations of this Chapter, except as provided below.
10-12-2: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS
   A.    Alterations: A nonconforming building or structure shall not be
reconstructed or altered to an extent exceeding twenty five percent (25%) of
its market value for assessment purposes unless said building or structure is
changed to conform with the regulations of this Chapter.
   B.    Enlargement: A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added
to or enlarged in any manner unless such additions or enlargements are made so
as to bring said building or structure into conformity with the regulations of
this Chapter.
   C.    Restoration: A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged by
fire or other cause to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its
market value shall not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of
this Chapter.
   D.    Abandonment: A nonconforming use of a building which has been
discontinued for a period of six (6) months shall not be re-established and any
future use shall be in conformity with the regulations of this Chapter. (1982
Code)
   E.    Residences: It is hereby specifically provided that a residence may be
renovated. If said residence was a prior nonconforming use at the time of the
start of renovation, said renovation is allowed even though the character or
value of the property is altered to an extent greater than twenty five percent
(25%) or is restored to an extent greater than fifty percent (50%). An
exception is hereby created allowing the renovation of houses, and anything in
conflict in a prior paragraph dealing with nonconforming buildings shall not
apply to a house used solely as a single family residence. (Ord. 598, 12-16-86)
10-12-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDING OR LAND
   A.    Extension:
      1.    A nonconforming use of a building may be extended throughout said
building provided no structural alterations are made therein except as required
by other codes or ordinances.
      2.    A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or enlarged.
   B.    Relocation: A nonconforming use shall not be moved to any other part
of the parcel of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of passage
of this Chapter.
ARTICLE 13
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
   
10-13-1: Permits
   
10-13-2: Variances
   
10-13-3: Special Uses
   
10-13-4: Amendment/Rezoning
10-13-1: PERMITS
   No building or other structure shall be erected, altered, added to, moved,
changed in use, or demolished without first securing a permit, unless said
activity fits within one of the exemptions set forth in this code. Any property
owner or contractor prior to undertaking any type of said activity shall
contact the Lanark City Clerk or Police Chief, and provide the details to
determine if a permit needs to be issued or whether one of the exemptions not
requiring a permit applies.
   A.   Permit Required. A permit shall be required prior to any construction,
reconstruction or alteration of a building where the estimated cost for such
work exceeds one thousand dollars ($1000) in combined materials and labor, and
the construction, reconstruction or alteration changes the footprint of
existing structures. The determination of labor costs pursuant to this
provision shall include labor of the homeowner, friends and relatives, to be
valued as if such services were obtained from a general contractor or
subcontractor.
      When an existing building or structure is intended to be torn down and
removed in order to replace or to build a new structure, then two (2) permits
shall be required. The first shall be a demolition permit to tear down the
existing structure, and the second shall be a building permit to reconstruct
the new structure. (Ord. 839, 9-2-2008)
      Instances where a building permit is required includes but is not limited
to the following:
      1.   The construction of a new building structure.
      2.   The construction of a new addition to a principal building
structure, including but not limited to, room additions, attached garages,
carports, roofed or enclosed porches, and other such similar additions.
      3.   Modification of a building structure for the purpose of changing the
use of the structure from that for which it was originally built and intended,
such as converting a detached garage to use for residential occupancy, or
converting a residential dwelling for use as a storage facility.
      4.   The construction of any fence or retaining wall.
      5.   The construction of an inground swimming pool, along with any
supporting equipment or structure such as a bathhouse.
      6.   The construction of any new cement or blacktop driveway.
      7.   The construction of freestanding solar panels or the attachment of
solar panels to an existing structure that alters the dimensions, ie,
footprint, of said structure.
   B.   No Permit Required. Exemptions where no building permit shall be
required even when the cost of work exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
include remodeling and improvements that do not change the footprint or
dimension of an existing structure, such as:
      1.   Any interior remodeling, including electrical, plumbing, mechanical
and structural alteration,
      2.   Addition or replacement of siding, soffit, shudders, spouting,
windows or doors.
      3.   Ordinary structural repairs such as repairing a roof or soffit, or
any existing porch, steps, patio, deck, fence or wall, or any other similar
structure,
      4.   Public utility structures and service components having a permanent
location either upon or under the ground and used to provide utility services.
      5.   Swing sets, playhouses, jungle gyms, trampolines and any other
related play equipment for children.
      6.   Garden or retaining walls and fences that are four feet (4') or less
in height.
      7.   Air supported structures, tents, above ground swimming pools, hot
tubs and other such similar equipment that can be placed upon the ground or on
a cement pad.
      8.   Antenna, satellite dishes and other similar equipment used to
receive or send telecommunication signals.
      9.   Any inground storage or shelter structure, such as a root cellar, a
storm shelter or other similar structure.
      Note: Any construction, reconstruction or alteration activity upon a
property located with the city of Lanark and not requiring a building permit
shall be required to comply with all provisions of the zoning regulations and
setback requirements set forth within the ordinances or the City of Lanark.
(Ord. 847, 7-6-2009)
   C.   Permit Fees.
      1.   Fees for building permits shall be as follows: $25.00 for
constructions or reconstructions valued less than $10,000.00. An additional fee
of $10.00 is added for every additional $10,000.00 of value. For example, in
the event a building is to cost $100,000.00, the fee shall be $25.00 for the
first $10,000.00 of value and $10.00 per $10,000.00 for the next $90,000.00 for
a total of $25.00 plus $90.00 or $115.00. (All values for fee calculation shall
be rounded to the nearest $10,000.)
      2.   A permit to tear down or remove a structure commonly referred to as
a demolition permit shall be issued without the payment of a fee.
      3.   In the event an applicant has had to apply for a variance or a
special use permit prior to receiving a building permit and has paid the fee
required for a variance or special use permit, they shall still be required to
pay the normal permit fee to be charged for the issuance of a building permit.
      4.   In the event construction is begun without first obtaining a permit,
a permit shall be issued which shall be considered a late permit. The fee for
issuing a late permit shall be twice what a normally issued permit would cost
under the given circumstances.
   D.   Application Process. If a permit is required, an application shall be
filled out and returned to the City Clerk or Police Chief. The Police Chief
will determine whether further investigation of construction, reconstruction or
alteration details is necessary, including but not limited to, an inspection of
the building site.
      The Police Chief will approve, conditionally approve, or deny the permit,
or refer said permit application to the Lanark City Council for approval,
conditional approval or denial.
      When the request for a permit is denied, the Police Chief or Council
shall provide the reason(s) for rejection and recommend alternative actions if
possible to pursue.
   E.   Application Exhibits. Each application for a building permit shall be
accompanied by the following exhibits unless waived by the Police Chief, and
shall additionally be accompanied by the applicable permit fee.
      1.   Boundary survey of an area including the property in question and
one hundred feet (100') beyond its outer boundaries showing existing utilities,
lot boundaries and dimensions, buildings and easements, Foliage, topography,
waterways and soil borings to be included if pertinent.
      2.   Plot plan indicating location, size and placement of proposed
structure and yards, parking and loading facilities, vehicular access and
egress and utility plan including surface drainage. (Ord. 735, 3-7-2000)
   F.   Receipt of Permit. Once a permit is issued, it shall be valid for one
year from the date of issue. In the event that exceptional and uncontrolled
delays occur and more time is needed to complete work on a permit, an extension
of time may be requested and granted by the Police Chief or Council.
      Upon receipt of a building permit, the owner of the property on which the
building permit is issued shall prominently display said permit during the
construction. Permit shall be placed in a plastic covering or behind a window,
protected from weather, along the periphery of the property where it can be
viewed. (Ord. 659, 3-15-1994)
   G.   Violations and Penalties. In the event the City Council, City Clerk, or
any employee of the City is provided with evidence indicating that a violation
of these provisions have taken place, the Police Chief shall undertake the
following:
      1.   Notify the property owner of a violation by personal service or by
certified mail indicating that a late permit must be acquired within ten (10)
days of the date of said letter.
      2.   In the event the property owner or person undertaking the work
including contractors, builders, etc., contacts the City Clerk or Police Chief
and obtains the necessary late permit, the matter shall be considered
concluded.
      3.   In the event the property owner or person undertaking the work
ignores the notification and does not obtain a late permit, the City shall file
a complaint in circuit court alleging a violation of the zoning ordinance. In
addition to obtaining a fine, an injunction stopping work may be granted.
      4.   Any person found violating the terms of this chapter, be they a
property owner, a contractor, or builder, or any person undertaking any type of
work or activity In violation shall be liable to a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per occurrence,
and/or imprisonment of not more than ninety (90) days for each offense. Each
day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      5.   Owners of property together with all persons hired to work on the
property including contractors, builders, etc., shall be liable to the terms of
this chapter and may be found to be in violation of said chapter. (Ord. 735, 3-
7-2000; amd. Ord. 1005, 8-6-2024)
10-13-2: VARIANCES
   Variations from the provisions of this chapter may be granted by the Lanark
City Council where practical difficulties or unusual hardships in complying
with such provisions are determined to exist.
   A.   Standards For Granting Variances.
      1.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the specific parcel of land involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience
if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out.
      2.   The conditions upon which the petition for a variance is based are
unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and one not
applicable, generally, to other property with the same zoning classification.
      3.   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
to increase the value or income potential of the parcel of land.
      4.   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by the provisions of
this chapter and has not been created by any persons presently or formerly
having an interest in the parcel of land.
      5.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the vicinity in which the
parcel of land is located.
      6.   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety,
or substantially diminish or impair property values within the vicinity.
      Note: A variance shall not be granted for the purpose of permitting a new
or different use of a property than what is permitted under its current zoning
designation. EG., a variance shall not be granted to permit a commercial use of
property zoned residential. Anyone seeking to change the use of a property from
what it is zoned shall proceed under section
10-12-3: Special Uses or
10-13-4: Amendment/Rezoning.
   B.   Application Process.
      1.   The property owner shall meet with the City Clerk or Police Chief to
explain his situation, learn the procedures and obtain an application form.
(1982 Code)
      2.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permits unless
waived by the Police Chief, and shall pay a filing fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00), (Ord. 891, 8-5-2014)
      3.   The City Clerk shall transmit the application to the City Council,
and the Council shall determine the time and place for a required public
hearing.
      4.   The City Clerk shall give notice of the scheduled public hearing to
all property owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the outer
boundaries of the property in question; however, failure of any property owner
to receive such notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      5.   The City Council shall hold the public hearing within forty five
(45) days of filing and shall take one of three (3) actions - approval, denial
or conditional approval. (Ord. 1005, 8-6-2024)
10-13-3: SPECIAL USES
   A special use permit may be granted by the City Council that will permit a
property owner to use a property inconsistent with said property's zoning
designation. Special use permits may be revoked by the Council at any time and
do not attach to the property. IE, when the property is conveyed to a new
owner, the special use permit is no longer valid. A new owner wishing to
continue said use must reapply for a special use permit for the property.
   A,   Standards For Granting Permits.
      1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary facilities
have been or will be provided.
      5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
      6.   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
   B,   Application Process.
      1.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permits unless
waived by the Police Chief, and shall pay a filing fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
      2.   The applicant shall provide a Petition of property owners within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property in question showing fifty percent
(50%) of such owners favoring the proposal.
      3.   The City Clerk shall transmit the application to the City Council,
and the Council shall determine the time and place for a required public
hearing.
      4.   The Clerk shall give notice of the public hearing to all property
owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the outer boundaries of the
property in question; however, failure of any property owner to receive such
notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      5.   The City Council shall hold the public hearing within forty-five
(45) days of filing and shall take one of three (3) actions - approval, denial
or conditional approval.
      Note: When a special use permit has been issued, such permit shall become
null and void unless work thereon commences within one year of receipt of such
special use. A special use permit authorizes only one particular use and
expires if that use ceases for more than twelve (12) consecutive months. (1982
Code; amd. Ord. 1005, 8-6-2024)
10-13-4: AMENDMENT/REZONING
   A change In a district's boundary or a change in a district's regulations
may be made by the City Council on its own consideration. Additionally, a
property owner may request a change in a district's boundary or a district's
regulations (rezoning).
   A.   Application Process.
      1.   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permits unless
waived by the Police Chief, and shall pay a filing fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
      2.   The applicant shall provide a Petition of property owners within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property in question showing fifty percent
(50%) of such owners favoring the proposal.
      3.   The City Clerk shall transmit the application to the City Council,
and the Council shall determine the time and place for a required public
hearing.
      4.   The Clerk shall give notice of the public hearing to all property
owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the outer boundaries of the
property in question; however, failure of any property owner to receive such
notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      5.   The City Council shall hold the public hearing within forty-five
(45) days of filing and shall take one of three (3) actions - approval, denial
or conditional approval. (Ord. 1005, 8-6-2024)
ARTICLE 14
FENCES
SECTION:
   
10-14-1: Junk Yards
   
10-14-2: Open Bodies of Water
   
10-14-3: Construction and Setback Requirements
10-14-1: JUNK YARDS 1
   Before any license under the provisions of Article 3 of Chapter 4 is issued,
any person desiring to operate a junk yard in the City shall first make a
verified application in writing to the City Clerk stating thereon the full name
of the applicant, the legal description of the premises where the junk yard is
to be located, the size and approximate location of each entrance thereto and
exit therefrom, whether or not the premises where the junk yard is to be
located is enclosed on its perimeter with a solid, nontransparent wall or fence
of a minimum height of seven feet (7') measured from the ground level excepting
the entrances and exits. (1982 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 4-3-3 of this Code. Placement as Section 10-14-1 pursuant
  to Ord. 659, 3-15-94.
10-14-2: OPEN BODIES OF WATER 2
   A.    Definition: "Swimming pools" and "man-made bodies of water" are hereby
defined as a receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water, having a
depth at any point of thirty one inches (31") or more, whether or not intended
for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings,
including portable or temporary-type pools of plastic, rubberized cloth or
similar materials, installed either above or below ground elevation, and
including all appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and maintained in or
above the ground outside of a building.
   B.    Compliance Required:
      1.    New Installation: It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain,
install or enlarge a swimming pool or man-made body of water within the City
limits except in compliance with the provisions of this Section.
      2.    Existing Pools or Ponds: All man-made ponds, swimming pools and
other receptacles containing water which are in existence at the time of this
Section shall have a period of thirty (30) days from the effective date of this
Section to be brought into compliance with the provisions of this Section.
   C.    Fence Requirements:
      1.    Aboveground Pools: All aboveground elevation swimming pools or
ponds within the City except swimming pools with a fence integral with the pool
wall shall be completely enclosed by a fence or other structure designed to
prevent small children from inadvertently wandering into the pool or pond. Such
fence or other structure shall not be less than four feet (4') in height. All
access gates or doors opening through such enclosure shall be equipped with a
self-closing and self-latching device designed to keep and capable of keeping
such door or gate securely closed and locked at all times when not in actual
use and to prevent small children from opening the access door or gate;
provided, however, that the door of any dwelling forming any part of the
enclosure hereinabove required need not be so equipped. Swimming pools with a
self-contained fence shall have at least four feet (4') in total height of pool
wall and fence from ground level to the top of fence.
      2.    Belowground Elevation Swimming Pools or Ponds: All swimming pools
and ponds within the City shall be completely enclosed by a fence or other
structure designed to prevent small children from inadvertently wandering into
the pool or pond. Such fence shall be erected along the periphery of the pool
or pond. All gates or doors opening through such enclosures shall be equipped
with a self-closing and self-latching device designed to keep and capable of
keeping such door or gate securely closed and locked at all times when not in
actual use and to prevent small children from opening the door or gate;
provided, however, that the door of any dwelling forming any part of the
enclosure hereinabove required need not be so equipped. All fences under this
subsection shall be at least four feet (4') in height.
      3.    Maintenance: All fences called for under the terms of this Section
shall be maintained at all times to provide the same restrictions to entry by
small children as they provide at the time of their initial installation.
Failure to maintain said fence shall constitute a violation of this Section.
(Ord. 546, 3-3-81)
      4.    Applicability of Provisions: The requirement for fencing set forth
in the previous subsection shall apply to any receptacle thirty one inches
(31") in depth at any point. It shall not be a requirement that there be thirty
one inches (31") of water placed in said receptacle. Regardless of the depth of
water in the receptacle, any receptacle with a thirty one inch (31") total
depth shall be subject to the fence provisions of this Section. It shall not be
a defense to a violation of this Section that a swimming pool or man-made body
of water was empty or partially filled or filled to a point at which at no
point there was thirty one inches (31") of water. A failure to have a fence and
properly maintain it shall be a violation even if the pool is empty. (Ord. 597,
10-7-86)
   D.    Penalty: Violation of this Section shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per violation. Each day a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 546, 3-3-81)
 
Notes
2 2. See also Section 5-2-21 of this Code. Placement as Section 10-14-
  2 pursuant to Ord. 659, 3-15-94.
10-14-3: CONSTRUCTION AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS 1
   A.    A fence is hereby defined for purposes of the ordinances of the City
as a hedge, structure or partition, erected for the purpose of enclosing a
piece of land, or to divide a piece of land into distinct portions, or to
separate two (2) contiguous estates. All such devices within the City shall be
considered a fence whether their purpose is to restrain animals, to restrain
small children, to prevent people entering upon property, for beautification or
otherwise for aesthetic purposes or for any other purpose.
   B.    It shall be unlawful to construct any fence on an area zoned in the
City to a height greater than eight feet (8') on the sides or rear of a
property or to a height greater than four feet (4') on the front of a property.
   C.    It shall be further provided that the eight foot (8') side fence shall
not extend further forward on a property than the minimum setback requirements
for constructing buildings on said property. It is further provided that the
side fence may extend forward from said setback line to the line at which a
front fence may be placed, but said additional side fence in front of said
setback line shall not be greater than four feet (4') in height. Further, there
shall be a setback requirement on the rear of the property of five feet (5') if
the property borders an alley. If there is no alley bordering all or a portion
of the property, there shall be no setback requirement along the portion of
said property that does not have an alley bordering it. It shall, therefor, be
possible to place a fence on the boundary line on the sides and on the rear
where no alley is involved. If an alley is involved on either the rear or the
side, then a five foot (5') setback shall be required along said alley. In the
event a lot is on a corner, all portions of the lot abutting a street shall be
considered front yard for purposes of the setback requirements and for purposes
of determining the height of fences.
   D.    The setback requirement on any fence on the front of the property
shall be such that the fence may be placed immediately inside the sidewalk on
said property if said sidewalk runs parallel to the street on which said
property fronts. In the event the property contains no sidewalk on its front,
the setback requirement on a fence on the front shall be back far enough to
allow the establishment of a sidewalk so that if said sidewalk were placed on
said property, the fence would be immediately inside of the said sidewalk.
(Ord. 598, 12-16-86)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section 5-5-25 of this Code. Placement as Section 10-14-
  3 pursuant to Ord. 659, 3-15-94.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
955      8-7-2018    5-11-1—
                     5-11-12
957      9-4-2018    2-10-1
956      8-7-2018    6-5-13,
                     6-5-18-1
959      10-16-2018  5-12-1
960      11-6-2018   2-20-1—
                     2-20-6
961      12-4-2018   2-2-2
964      7-16-2019   6-2-7-2,
                     6-4-2
969      8-20-2019   9-1-2
970      9-17-2019   4-1-3
971      10-15-2019  2-10-2,
                     2-10-4
                     5-1-3,
                     5-1-5,
972      12-3-2019   5-1-6,
                     5-1-18,
                     5-1-19
974      6-16-2020   2-20-1—
                     2-20-6
975      7-21-2020   2-10-1
977      9-15-2020   6-2-7-2,
                     6-4-2
979      9-15-2020   5-13-1—
                     5-13-18
                     6-1-1,
985      6-15-2021   6-1-5,
                     6-1-21,
                     6-1-22
                     6-1-5,
                     6-1-6,
987      8-17-2021   6-1-11,
                     6-1-21—
                     6-1-23, Repeals
                     6-1-24
989      6-7-2022    9-1-1—
                     9-1-4
                     6-2-7-2,
991      8-16-2022   6-4-2,
                     6-7-7
992      11-15-2022  6-2-7-2
993      2-7-2023    3-8-1—
                     3-8-6
994      2-21-2023   6-1-5,
                     6-1-22, Repeals 6-1-11, 6-1-20
998      12-12-2023  6-2-7-2
999      4-16-2024   2-10-1
1005     8-6-2024    10-13-1—
                     10-13-4, Repeals 3-2-1—3-2-8
1006     9-17-2024   5-1-15
                     6-2-7-2,
1009     11-19-2024  6-4-2,
                     6-7-7—
                     6-7-9
1011     3-18-2025   6-2-3,
                     6-3-3
1014     6-3-2025    6-2-7-2,
                     6-4-2
                    
 
