CITY CODE
of
LELAND GROVE
ILLINOIS
2008
Code current through:
Ord. 447, passed 1-26-2021
 
Published by:
STERLING CODIFIERS
an
American Legal Publishing Company
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Leland Grove, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 447, passed 1-26-2021.  Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Sterling Codifiers
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
LELAND GROVE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Leland Grove. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the LELAND GROVE CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2008 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2008 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2008 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed by the mayor and council prior to the
adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2008 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2008 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any part hereof, or any portion adopted by reference, or any
codes or portions of codes adopted herein, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part hereof or any portion adopted
by reference or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein. The council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Leland Grove".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Leland Grove, county of Sangamon, state of Illinois.
CODE: The city code of the city of Leland Grove.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Leland
Grove.
COUNTY: The county of Sangamon, state of Illinois.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the city.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2008 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, ordinances, or state statute, any person found to have been in violation
of any of the terms and provisions of this code shall be fined in accordance
with the classifications and fines set forth in subsections Band C of this
section.
   B.   Classifications: The following classifications are established to
reflect the relative seriousness of violations to the various sections of this
code and its ordinances:
      1.   Class A Violations: Actions which present an immediate risk to
health and safety. The fine for a class A violation shall be a minimum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00). The maximum fine for each day there is found to be a
violation shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   Class B Violations: Actions which disrupt the neighborhood, detract
from the residential character of the community, activity which could result in
substandard housing or unacceptable construction. Violations here are viewed as
presenting a limited health risk. The fine for class B violations shall be a
minimum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). The maximum fine for each day
there is found to be a violation shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      3.   Class C Violations: Nuisances which have a minimal effect on
neighbors, property values, safety or construction quality. The fine for class
C violations shall be a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The maximum
fine for each day there is found to be a violation shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
      Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. Fines may be imposed for each day a violation is found to exist. A
penalty for each offense may also include a requirement that the offending
patty perform some reasonable public service work such as, but not limited to,
picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways or performing
maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be established by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   C.   Specific Violations:
      1.   The following shall be classified as class A violations:
         a.   Fire hazards and the storage of certain materials more
particularly set forth in section
5-2-1 of this code.
         b.   Firearms violations as more particularly set forth in section
5-3-1 of this code.
         c.   Willful exposure of communicable diseases as more particularly
set forth in section
4-1C-9 of this code.
      2.   The following shall be classified as class B violations:
         a.   Public health department violations as more particularly set
forth in section
4-1A-3 of this code.
         b.   Failure to remove garbage, rubbish, solid waste, and weeds as
more particularly set fo1th in section
4-1E-2 of this code.
         c.   Failure to remove abandoned vehicles as more particularly set
forth in section
4-2-11 of this code.
         d.   Allowing dogs and cats to run at large or otherwise behave as a
public nuisance as more particularly set forth in sections
5-1-1 through
5-1-5 of this code.
         e.   Violation of the general traffic and driving rules as more
particularly set forth in sections
6-1-1 through
6-1-7 of this code.
         f.   Violation of the regulations related to driveways, and curb cuts
as more particularly set forth in section
7-1-2 of this code.
         g.   Violations of those regulations relating to excavations as more
particularly set forth in sections
7-2-1 through
7-2-9 of this code.
         h.   Building code violations as more particularly set forth in
section
8-1-1 of this code.
         i.   Violation of rules regulating swimming pools as more particularly
set forth in sections
8-2-1 through
8-2-5 of this code.
         j.   Violations related to the development of floodplain areas as more
particularly set forth in sections
8-3-1 through
8-3-14 of this code.
         k.   Violation of zoning regulations as more particularly set forth in
sections
9-2-1 through
9-2-9 of this code.
         l.   Violation of the rules regulating fireworks as more particularly
set forth in section
5-2-2 of this code.
      3.   The following shall be classified as class C violations:
         a.   Violation of rules regulating solicitors as set forth in sections
3-2-1 through
3-2-9 of this code.
         b.   Violation of burning regulations as more particularly set forth
in sections
4-3-1 through
4-3-3 of this code.
         c.   Violation of the curbside and recycling program more particularly
set forth in sections
4-4-1 through
4-4-7 of this code.
         d.   Violation of the regulations relating to tree preservation as
more particularly set fo1th in sections
4-5-1 through
4-5-13 of this code.
         e.   Parking violations as more particularly set forth in sections
6-2-1 through
6-2-8 of this code.
         f.   Prohibited deposits on public places as more particularly set
forth in section
7-1-1 of this code.
         g.   Children in vehicles and restraint systems as more particularly
set forth in section 5-3-2-1 of this code.
         h.   Prohibit smoking in motor vehicle with a minor present as more
particularly set forth in section 5-3-2-2 of this code.
         i.   Vehicle head lights as more particularly set forth in section 5-
3-2-3 of this code.
         j.   Seat belts as more particularly set forth in section 5-3-2-4 of
this code.
Section 5-3-2-l. - Children in vehicles and restraint systems.
   A.   All Children under the age of two (2) years shall be properly secured
in a rear-facing child restraint system unless the child weighs forty (40) or
more pounds or is forty (40) or more inches tall. All children under the age of
eight (8) shall be properly secured in an appropriate child safety restraint
system. This includes the use of booster seats, which must only be used with a
lap/shoulder safety belt. If the back seat of the vehicle is not equipped with
lap/shoulder type safety belts, a child weighing more than forty (40) pounds
may be transported in the back seat without a booster seat, secured with a lap
belt only.
Section 5-3-2-2. - Prohibit smoking in motor vehicle with a minor present.
   A.   For purposes of this Section: "Smoke" means to inhale, exhale, bum, or
carry a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, weed, plant, regulated narcotic, or
other combustible substance. "Vehicle" has the same meaning as defined in
Section 1-217 of this Code and does not include motorcycles as defined in
Section 1-147.
   B.   A person shall not smoke in a motor vehicle, whether it is in motion or
at rest, if a person under eighteen (18) years of age is in the vehicle,
regardless of whether the vehicle's windows are open. This subsection does not
apply to a person who is the sole occupant of a vehicle.
   C.   A police officer may not stop or detain a motor vehicle or its driver
nor inspect or search the vehicle, the contents of the vehicle, or the operator
or passenger of the vehicle solely for a violation or suspected violation of
this Section.
Section 5-3-2-3. - Vehicle Head Lights.
   A.   When operated upon any highway in this State, every motorcycle shall at
all times exhibit at least one (1) lighted lamp, showing a white light visible
for at least five hundred feet (500') in the direction the motorcycle is
proceeding. However, in lieu of such lighted lamp, a motorcycle may be equipped
with and use a means of modulating the upper beam of the head lamp between high
and a lower brightness. No such head lamp shall be modulated, except to
otherwise comply with this Code, during times when lighted lamps are required
for other motor vehicles.
   B.   All other motor vehicles shall exhibit at least two (2) lighted head
lamps, with at least one (1) on each side of the front of the vehicle, which
satisfy United States Department of Transportation requirements, showing white
lights, including that emitted by high intensity discharge (HID) lamps, or
lights of a yellow or amber tint, during the period from sunset to sunrise, at
times when rain, snow, fog, or other atmospheric conditions require the use of
windshield wipers, and at any other times when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the highway are not
clearly discernible at a distance of one thousand feet (1,000'). Parking lamps
may be used in addition to but not in lieu of such head lamps. Every motor
vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least two (2) lighted
lamps, commonly known as tail lamps, which shall be mounted on the left rear
and right rear of the vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for at least
five hundred feet (500') in the reverse direction, except that a truck tractor 
or road tractor manufactured before January 1, 1968 and all motorcycles need be
equipped with only one such tail lamp.
Section 5-3-2-4. - Seat Belts.
   A.   Each driver and passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a street or
highway in this State shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat safety
belt. A child less than eight (8) years of age shall be protected as required
pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection Act. Each driver of a motor vehicle
transporting a child eight (8) years of age or more, but less than sixteen (16)
years of age, shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened seat
safety belt as required under the Child Passenger Protection Act. Each driver
of a motor vehicle transporting a passenger who is unable, due to infirmity,
illness, or age, to properly adjust and fasten a seat safety belt and is not
exempted from wearing a seat safety belt under subsection.
   B.   Shall secure the passenger in a properly adjusted and fastened seat
safety belt as required under this Section.
   C.   Paragraph A shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   A driver or passenger frequently stopping and leaving the vehicle or
delivering property from the vehicle, if the speed of the vehicle between stops
does not exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      2.   A driver or passenger possessing a written statement from a
physician  that such person is unable, for medical or physical reasons, to wear
a seat safety belt.
      3.   A driver or passenger possessing an official certificate or license
endorsement issued by the appropriate agency in another state or country
indicating that the driver is unable for medical, physical, or other valid
reasons to wear a seat safety belt.
      4.   A driver operating a motor vehjcle in reverse.
      5.   A motor vehicle with a model year prior to 1965.
      6.   A motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
      7.   A moped.
      8.   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with seat
safety belts under federal law.
      9.   A motor vehicle operated by a rural letter carrier of the United
States postal service while performing duties as a rural letter carrier.
      10.   A driver or passenger of an authorized emergency vehicle, except
this exception does not apply to vehicles of the fire department; vehicles of
the Office of the State Fire Marshal; or ambulances, unless the delivery of
life-saving measures prohibits the use of a seat safety belt.
      11.   A back seat passenger of a taxicab. (Ord. 405, 11-24-2015; Ord.
439, 11-26-2019)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2008 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Wards And Ward Boundaries
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the city shall be as follows: A circular disc so designed
as to impress the words "City of Leland Grove, Illinois" on the periphery
thereof and "Corporate Seal" in the center. (Ord. 2, 6-30-1950)
1-5-2: WARDS AND WARD BOUNDARIES:
In order to equalize the population of the wards of the city and to make them
as compact and as contiguous as practicable, the city shall be divided into
three (3) wards, and the boundaries of the three (3) wards shall be as follows:
   A.   Ward 1: Beginning at the intersection of Wiggins Avenue and Laurel
Street, thence east to the intersection of Laurel Street and the alley between
Park and Lincoln Avenue, thence south to the northwest property corner of 1325
Ash Street, thence east to the northeast property corner of 1301 Ash Street,
thence north and east to the northwest property corner of 2048 Lincoln Avenue,
thence east to the northeast property corner of 2041 Douglas Avenue, thence
south to Cherry Road, thence west to the intersection of Cherry Road and Bates
Avenue, thence south to the intersection of Bates Avenue and Outer Park Drive,
thence west to the intersection of Outer Park Drive and Sylvan Avenue, thence
north to the intersection of Sylvan Avenue and Wiggins Avenue, thence north to
the point of beginning.
   B.   Ward 2: Beginning at a point at the southwest corner of Illini Country
Club, thence east to the northwest property corner of Lot 4 of Illini Circle
Subdivision, thence north to the northwest corner of Illini Circle Subdivision,
thence east to Chatham Road, thence north to the southeast property corner of
1401 Chatham Road, thence west to the southwest property corner of 1401 Chatham
Road, thence north to the northwest corner of 1401 Chatham Road, thence east to
Chatham Road, thence north to the northwest corner of Illini Country Club,
thence east to the northeast corner of Illini Country Club, thence south to the
northwest property corner of 1600 Illini Road, thence east to the northeast
property corner of 1523 Willemore Avenue, thence south to the northeast
property corner of 1636 Laurel Street, thence west to the northeast property
corner of 1640 Laurel Street, thence south to the southeast property corner of
1750 Illini Road, thence east to Wiggins Avenue, thence south to the
intersection of Wiggins Avenue and Sylvan Avenue, thence south to the
intersection of Sylvan Avenue and Outer Park Drive, thence west to the
intersection of Outer Park Drive and Wildwood Lane, thence south to the
southeast corner of Leland Knolls Addition 3rd Plat South, thence west to the
southwest corner of Leland Knolls Addition 3rd Plat South, thence north along
the west line of Leland Knolls Addition 3rd Plat South to the southwest corner
of Hillview Subdivision, thence north and east to the northeast corner of
Hillview Subdivision at Outer Park Drive, thence north to the intersection of
Outer Park Drive and Laurel Street, thence south and west to the intersection
of Laurel Street and Chatham Road, thence south to the northeast property
corner of 1775 Chatham Road, thence west to the northwest corner of Club View
Drive Subdivision, thence south to the southwest corner of Club View Drive
Subdivision, thence west to the northwest property corner of 2173 Lindsay Road,
thence north to the point of beginning.
   C.   Ward 3: Beginning at a point at the northwest property corner of 2173
Lindsay Road, thence east to the southwest corner of Club View Drive
Subdivision, thence north to the northwest corner of Club View Drive
Subdivision, thence east to Chatham Road, thence north to the intersection of
Chatham Road and Laurel Street, thence north and east to the intersection of
Laurel Street and Outer Park Drive, thence south to the northeast corner of
Hillview Subdivision at Outer Park Drive, thence south to the southwest corner
of Hillview Subdivision, thence west to the southwest corner of Lot 6 of the
Frank J. Mason Subdivision, thence north to the southeast corner of Lot 42 of
Fox Meadows Plat No. 1, thence west to the southwest corner of Lot 97 of Fox
Meadows Plat No. 4, thence north to the northwest corner of Lot 99 of Fox
Meadows Plat No. 5, thence east to a point 10 feet west and parallel to the
west property line of Lot 86 of Fox Meadows Plat No. 4, thence north along said
line to a point on the north property line of Lot 100 of Fox Meadows Flat No.
5, thence west to the northwest corner of Lot 100 Fox Meadows Plat No. 5,
thence north to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 227, 9-28-1987)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Meetings
1-6-2: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold one regular meeting each
month, and such meeting shall be held on the fourth Tuesday of each month,
commencing at six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be held from
time to time, but written notice of such special meeting must be served upon
the mayor, city clerk, and each member of the city council by mailing or
delivering a notice to each such person at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance of the special meeting. The notice must state the purpose for which the
special meeting is called. No business may be transacted at the special
meeting, except that for which it is called, unless all members of the city
council are present and agree to the transaction of other business. Public
notice of such special meeting shall also be given by posting a copy of the
notice at the building where the meeting is to be held, and such notice shall
be posted at least forty eight (48) hours in advance of the special meeting.
   C.   Holidays: If the fourth Tuesday of the month is a public holiday, the
city council shall meet at the same hour on a day determined by the city
council before or following the public holiday.
   D.   Location: All regular and special meetings of the city council shall be
held at 2000 Chatham Road, in Leland Grove, Illinois.
   E.   Adjourned Meetings: A regular or special meeting may be adjourned to a
later date, provided it is not beyond the date of the next regular meeting of
the city council. Any subject may be considered at an adjourned regular meeting
that might have been considered at the original regular meeting. No subject may
be considered at any adjourned special meeting that might not have been
considered at the original special meeting unless all members of the city
council are present and agree to the transaction of other business.
   F.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be open to the
public, except the following:
      1.   The appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance,
or dismissal of specific employees of the city or city attorney, including
hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the city or
against the city attorney to determine its validity.
      2.   Collective negotiating matters between the city and its employees or
their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one or
more classes of employees.
      3.   The selection of a person to fill a "public office", as defined by 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2, including a vacancy in a public office, when
the city is given power to appoint under law or ordinance, or the discipline,
performance or removal of the occupant of a public office, when the city is
given power to remove the occupant under law or ordinance.
      4.   Evidence or testimony presented in open hearing, or in closed
hearing where specifically authorized by law, to a "quasi- adjudicative body",
as defined by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2; provided, that the body
prepares and makes available for public inspection a written decision setting
forth its determinative reasoning.
      5.   The purchase or lease of real property for the use of the city,
including meetings held for the purpose of discussing whether a particular
parcel should be acquired.
      6.   The setting of a price for sale or lease of property owned by the
city.
      7.   The sale or purchase of securities, investments, or investment
contracts.
      8.   Security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to
respond to an actual, a threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the
safety of employees, students, staff, the public, or public property.
      9.   Student disciplinary cases.
      10.   The placement of individual students in special education programs
and other matters relating to individual students.
      11.   Litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
city has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative tribunal,
or when the city finds that an action is probable or imminent, in which case,
the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the minutes of the
closed meeting.
      12.   The establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided
in the local governmental and governmental employees tort immunity act 1 , if
otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or
the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management information,
records, data, advice or communications from or with respect to any insurer of
the city or any intergovernmental risk management association or self-insurance
pool of which the city is a member.
      13.   Conciliation of complaints of discrimination in the sale or rental
of housing, when closed meetings are authorized by the law or ordinance
prescribing fair housing practices and creating a commission or administrative
agency for their enforcement.
      14.   Informant sources, the hiring or assignment of undercover personnel
or equipment, or ongoing, prior or future criminal investigations, when
discussed by a public body with criminal investigatory responsibilities.
      15.   Professional ethics or performance when considered by an advisory
body appointed to advise a licensing or regulatory agency on matters germane to
the advisory body's field of competence.
      16.   Self-evaluation, practices and procedures or professional ethics,
when meeting with a representative of a statewide association of which the city
is a member.
      17.   The recruitment, credentialing, discipline or formal peer review of
physicians or other healthcare professionals for a hospital, or other
institution providing medical care, that is operated by the city.
      18.   Deliberations for decisions of the prisoner review board.
      19.   Review or discussion of applications received under the
experimental organ transplantation procedures act 2 .
      20.   The classification and discussion of matters classified as
confidential or continued confidential by the state government suggestion award
board.
      21.   Discussion of minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this
subsection, whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or
semiannual review of the minutes as mandated by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
120/2.06.
      22.   Deliberations for decisions of the state emergency medical services
disciplinary review board.
      23.   The operation by the city of a municipal utility or the operation
of a municipal power agency or municipal natural gas agency when the discussion
involves: a) contracts relating to the purchase, sale, or delivery of
electricity or natural gas; or b) the results or conclusions of load forecast
studies.
      24.   Meetings of a residential healthcare facility resident sexual
assault and death review team or the executive council under the abuse
prevention review team act 3 .
      25.   Such other exemptions authorized by law as now or hereafter
amended.
   G.   Taped Meetings:
      1.   All meetings of the city council shall be taped and maintained by
the city clerk.
      2.   The city clerk shall maintain all tape recordings of meetings of the
city council in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations of
the state and the city.
      3.   The city clerk shall use the tape recordings in the preparation of
the minutes of the respective meetings of the city council. The tape recordings
shall not constitute the official record of the city council.
      4.   All tape recordings shall be maintained until approval by the city
council of the minutes of the respective meeting. Upon approval of the minutes
of the meeting, the city clerk shall erase the tape recording; provided,
however, that all tape recordings of any executive session of the city council
shall be maintained on a separate tape and shall be retained as provided and
required by law.
   H.   Recording Meetings; Electronic Attendance:
      1.   Recording Of Meetings: Any person may record, by tape, film, digital
media, or other means, city council meetings which are open to the public. In
order to facilitate the timely conduct of the meeting and the observation and/
or participation of all attendees, the following rules shall apply:
         a.   The mayor shall be given advance notice to the extent
practicable.
         b.   The person planning to record the meeting will make advance
arrangements, if needed, to set up equipment so that the meeting is not
disrupted or delayed.
         c.   Any equipment used and the person or persons using it shall, to
the greatest extent possible, not block the view of other attendees, nor shall
they cause a distraction by talking or moving other than what is absolutely
necessary to the operation of the equipment.
         d.   If any person wishing to address the meeting refuses to do so if
he or she is being recorded, the mayor may require that recording be stopped
for the duration of that person's presentation to the council.
         e.   Should the recording process, or the person or persons making the
recording become disruptive to the conduct of the meeting, the mayor may order
the recording stopped and equipment removed or, alternatively, turned off and
left in place, until the meeting is concluded.
      2.   Electronic Attendance: When a member of the city council cannot
physically be present at a council meeting, he or she may be permitted to
attend electronically when the following conditions are met:
         a.   A quorum of the council is physically present.
         b.   The member who is prevented from physically attending the council
attests to the reason which must be one of the following:
            (1)   Personal illness or disability,
            (2)   Employment purposes or the business of the city of Leland
Grove,
            (3)   A family or other emergency.
         c.   A majority of the quorum physically present, by roll call vote,
agrees to allow the member to participate.
         d.   A member of the council, who anticipates not being able to attend
the meeting physically, shall notify the city clerk in advance of the meeting.
Should the member not know in advance or not be able to communicate with the
city clerk in advance, that member shall still be able to participate so long
as the requirements above are met. (Ord. 392, 11-26-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.
2 1. 20 ILCS 3935/1 et seq.
3 1. 210 ILCS 28/1 et seq.
1-6-2: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business of the city council shall be
as follows:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Minutes of preceding meeting.
      3.   Reports of officers.
      4.   Reports of committees.
      5.   Other business. (Ord. 3, 6-30-1950; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Resolutions: Any resolution submitted to the council shall be reduced
to writing before being voted upon on the request of any two (2) members of the
council.
   C.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than a member of the city council
shall address that body at any regular or special meeting except upon consent
of a majority of the members present.
   D.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the
deliberations of the council except when in conflict with any rule, resolution
or ordinance adopted by the council. (Ord. 3, 6-30-1950)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Bonds And Salaries Of Elected Officials
1-7-2: Personnel Code
1-7-3: Travel, Meal, And Lodging Expenses
1-7-1: BONDS AND SALARIES OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Bonds:
      1.   Amounts Established: The following are the bond amounts for the
designated city officials. The city council shall approve the securities on
said bonds.
 
Mayor          $50,000.00
City clerk     50,000.00
City treasurer 50,000.00
 
      2.   Filing Bonds: The bond of the mayor and city treasurer shall be
filed with the city clerk, and the bond of the city clerk shall be filed with
the city treasurer.
      3.   Additional Security: Additional security for each of the above bonds
shall be provided by a blanket position bond to be obtained from an insurance
company designated by the city council for the penalty amounts set forth above,
and the cost of the premium for such bond shall be paid by the city. (Ord. 166,
4-23-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Salaries:
      1.   Mayor: The mayor shall receive a salary of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) per month, payable monthly. (Ord. 329-A, 5-28-2002)
      2.   Aldermen: Each alderman shall receive a salary of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each regular meeting and each special meeting of the city
council at which that alderman shall be in attendance and at which a quorum is
declared present and official business of the city is thereafter conducted.
Said salaries shall be paid annually at the end of the fiscal year. (Ord. 329-
A, 5-28-2002; amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   City Clerk: The city clerk shall receive a salary of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) per month, payable monthly.
      4.   City Treasurer: The city treasurer shall receive a salary of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per month, payable monthly. (Ord. 329-A, 5-28-
2002)
1-7-2: PERSONNEL CODE:
The "Leland Grove Personnel Code", a copy of which is attached to ordinance
222, passed January 26, 1987, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
out herein. A copy of said ordinance is on file in the office of the city clerk
for public use and inspection. (2008 Code)
1-7-3: TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
    ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the township or by wards or charges of the township involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   B.   Official Business For Which Expenses May Be Reimbursed:
      1.   Effective January 1, 2017, an official of the city shall be entitled
to reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging, related to the
following types of official business:
         a.   Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of the
city.
         b.   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the city.
         c.   Administrative and legislative matters related to the business of
the city.
      2.   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, including
meals or lodging, related to the following types of official business:
         a.   Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of
the city.
         b.   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the city.
         c.   Administrative and legislative matters related to the business of
the city.
   C.   Maximum Allowable Reimbursement For Expenses: Unless otherwise excepted
herein, the maximum allowable reimbursement for an employee of officers of the
township shall be those rates set by the reimbursement schedule of the
governor's travel control board in effect at the time the expense was incurred.
   D.   Approval Of Expenses: The city council must approve the following
reimbursements for travel, including meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at
an open meeting of the city council:
      1.   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in subsection C of this section; or
      2.   Any expense of any member of the city council.
   E.   Documentation Of Expenses: Before any reimbursement for travel,
including meals or lodging may be approved pursuant to subsection D of this
section, a standardized form for submission of travel, meal, and lodging
expenses supported by the following minimum documentation shall first be
submitted to the city council:
      1.   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals or lodging
if the expenses have already been incurred;
      2.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the travel,
meal or lodging expense;
      3.   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      4.   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
All documents and information submitted under this section are public records
subject to disclosure under the freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/1 et seq.
   F.   Entertainment: No employee or officer of the city shall be reimbursed
by the township for any entertainment expense. (Ord. 415, 11-22-2016)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Interpretation
1-8-4: Prohibited Acts
1-8-5: Violations, Penalties And Prosecutions
1-8-6: Amendments
1-8-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-8-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10 through
430/10-40 of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this
chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the city to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 336, 5-25-2004)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 336, 5-
25-2004)
1-8-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 336, 5-25-2004)
1-8-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act, by any officer or employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 336, 5-25-2004)
1-8-5: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND PROSECUTIONS:
Persons violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this title per offense. Violations shall be prosecuted by the city
attorney at the specific request of a majority of the city council upon motion
duly made, seconded and adopted. In any case where a member of the city council
is accused of a violation of this chapter, such member shall abstain from any
such vote. In any case of an alleged violation of this chapter by the city
attorney, the city shall obtain separate counsel to handle the prosecution. In
a case where the city council believes a criminal act has occurred, the council
may direct the city attorney to refer the matter to the state's attorney for
prosecution. (Ord. 336, 5-25-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
1-8-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the city council. (Ord. 336, 5-25-2004; amd.
2008 Code)
1-8-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or
rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
city council if the act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme
court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act, as adopted by
this chapter, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the city council. (Ord. 336, 5-25-2004; amd.
2008 Code)
CHAPTER 9
COUNTY WASTE PLAN ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
1-9-1: City Participation
1-9-1: CITY PARTICIPATION:
   A.   Authorization: The city is hereby authorized to participate in the
county solid waste plan community advisory committee.
   B.   Appointment Of City Representatives: The mayor, with the consent of the
city council, shall appoint a resident to serve as the city representative on
the advisory committee. The mayor may appoint, in the same fashion, another
resident as the alternate representative. Replacement representatives or
alternate representatives may be appointed, at the discretion of the mayor,
from time to time. An elected or appointed official may serve as representative
or alternate representative. Notice of the appointment of a representative or
alternate representative or replacements shall be promptly given in writing to
the county department of public health. (Ord. 275, 7-27-1992)
CHAPTER 10
CITY DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Established
1-10-1: ESTABLISHED:
The following departments shall be established by the City: Building and
Zoning; Police and Public Safety; Health, Sanitation and Environment; Finance
and Revenue; Public Ways and Properties; Human Resources; and Administration.
Each department shall have a director and a codirector who shall be appointed
by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. Each department may utilize an
advisory committee which may include residents of the City for those matters
and in such capacity as is approved by the Mayor and the City Council. The
director shall be responsible for all functions within the director's
respective department, and the codirector shall act as and for the director in
the event the director is unavailable or unable to perform the functions of the
director. The duties and responsibilities of a department and its respective
director and codirector may be modified from time to time as necessary to give
full force and effect to all ordinances adopted by the City. A director and a
codirector may make recommendations to the Mayor and the City Council to adopt,
amend, repeal or modify in any fashion, in whole or in part, any ordinance,
resolution or motion of the City Council, subject to the approval of the Mayor
and the City Council.
   A.   The Building and Zoning Department shall be responsible for all
activities governed by titles 8, 9 and 10 of this Code. In addition, the
Department, through its contracted representatives, shall review all building
permit applications, including the approval or rejection of any application,
and shall provide for the issuance of permits upon approval. The Department
shall have the authority to direct any building inspections, to address all
concerns of residents and report the same to the City Council. At the
discretion of the Director of the Department, any matter may be referred to the
City's Zoning Board of Appeals.
   B.   The Police and Public Safety Department shall be responsible for all
activities governed by titles 5 and 6 of this Code. In addition, the Department
shall work with the Chief of Police with respect to any grant funds applied for
by the City and to address all personnel requirements for proper staffing. The
Department shall address all concerns of residents and report the same to the
City Council.
   C.   The Health, Sanitation and Environment Department shall be responsible
for all activities governed by title 4 of this Code. In addition, the
Department shall coordinate with the Sangamon County Public Health Department
and the Director shall have the authority to refer any matter to the Sangamon
County Public Health Department for review or prosecution as may be necessary
in the discretion of the Director. The Department shall have responsibility for
the administration of the International Property Maintenance Code as such shall
be in force and effect from time to time. The Department shall have
responsibility for researching and applying for grants on behalf of the City.
The Department shall address all concerns of residents and report the same to
the City Council.
   D.   The Finance and Revenue Department shall be responsible for all
activities governed by titles 2 and 3 of this Code. In addition, the Department
shall work with the City Treasurer and the City's Auditor with respect to the
City's finances. The Department shall have the responsibility for reviewing all
proposed sources of revenues, monitoring and implementing the budget and
appropriations process and making recommendations to the Mayor and the City
Council.
   E.   The Public Ways and Properties Department shall be responsible for all
activities governed by title 7 of this Code. In addition, the Department shall
establish long range plans for roads, sidewalks and other public ways and
properties, work with the City Engineer as required and coordinate with the
Springfield Area Transportation Study Technical Committee. The Department shall
research and apply for grants on behalf of the City and shall address all
personnel requirements for proper staffing of street crews. The Department
shall address all concerns of residents and report the same to the City
Council.
   F.   The Human Resources Department shall be responsible for all personnel
matters within the City. In addition, the Department shall review and make
recommendations to the City Council regarding salaries, wages and benefits for
City employees. The Department shall administer the City's Personnel Code as it
may be in force and effect from time to time.
   G.   The Administration Department shall be responsible for all activities
governed by this title. The Director shall be the Mayor and the Codirector
shall be the City Administrator. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
CHAPTER 11
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT IN ORDINANCE ADOPTION
SECTION:
1-11-1: Introduction Of Ordinances
1-11-2: Electronic Comments
1-11-3: Public Meeting Comment Procedures
1-11-4: Validity
1-11-1: INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES:
All written ordinances introduced for the consideration of the city council
making changes to this code, excepting ordinances related to budget or
appropriations, tax levy ordinances and ordinances which a majority of the city
council deems to be of an emergent nature, shall appear as either a discussion
or action item on a minimum of three (3) separate regular or special meeting
agendas before adoption. Thus at a minimum, a proposed ordinance should appear
as a discussion item on the agenda for the meeting at which it is introduced,
on another agenda as a discussion item at a second meeting and on a third
agenda as an action item at a third meeting. The three (3) agenda appearances
herein required need not be consecutive but all three (3), or if more, the
final three (3), must occur within twelve (12) consecutive months. (Ord. 369,
2-22-2011)
1-11-2: ELECTRONIC COMMENTS:
The city council shall make available to the public on the city's website a
form by which the public may transmit comments to the elected officials on all
ordinances that have been presented to the city council for consideration. At a
minimum, the website must include the full text of the ordinance as proposed
along with a brief description of the ordinance and why its proponent deems it
useful or necessary. This information shall be posted on the city's website
following the first time the proposed ordinance appears on the city council
agenda and prior to the second time. Comments may be submitted either directly
through the website or in writing to the city council at the address of the
city's offices. All public comments shall be provided to all members of the
city council prior to next scheduled meeting following submission of the
comment. No response to the individual submitting the comment is required.
(Ord. 369, 2-22-2011)
1-11-3: PUBLIC MEETING COMMENT PROCEDURES:
Members of the public may address the city council regarding proposed
ordinances at any regularly scheduled meeting at the point in the meeting so
identified in the agenda. In order to be eligible to speak, a person must file
with the city a written request on the form provided at least two (2) business
days in advance of the meeting at which the person desires to speak, which form
must specify the person's name, address, and the ordinance or agenda item on
which comment is to be made. Total public comment on any one ordinance or
agenda item is limited to forty five (45) minutes; such time includes
statements, questions or answers by members of the city council in response to
any public comment. Each individual who addresses the city council is limited
to five (5) minutes of comment per ordinance; such time includes statements,
questions or answers by the city council in response to the individual. As
presiding officer, the mayor retains the authority to recognize members of the
public to speak during the meeting and to further decrease the time limits to
each individual in order to afford others an opportunity to be heard. A
majority of those members of the city council present at a meeting may waive
the requirement that public comment occur at the point in the meeting
identified on the agenda. A majority of those members of the city council
present at a meeting may waive the time limits on comments provided in this
section. Any member of the public who makes public comments shall conduct
themselves at all times in a respectful manner. (Ord. 369, 2-22-2011)
1-11-4: VALIDITY:
No failure to comply with these provisions by the council or any of its agents
shall render invalid any ordinance otherwise lawfully adopted by the mayor and
the city council. (Ord. 369, 2-22-2011)
CHAPTER 12
BIDDING FOR THE PURCHASE OF GOODS AND SERVICES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Title
1-12-2: Procurement Methods
1-12-3: Procedures
1-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the LELAND GROVE BIDDING FOR THE PURCHASE OF GOODS
AND SERVICES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 383, 2-26-2013)
1-12-2: PROCUREMENT METHODS:
   A.   Selection Of Method: When it is determined that the city will purchase
goods or services, one of the following procurement methods shall be chosen,
based on the type of procurement and total dollar value of the goods or
services to be purchased.
   B.   Small Purchases:
      1.   General: Any contract not exceeding twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) for construction or public improvements and twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for goods or services may be made in accordance with the
small purchase procedures authorized by this section. Larger contracts shall
not be artificially divided so as to appear to be "small purchases".
      2.   Petty Cash Purchases: Small purchases under two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) that can be satisfied by local vendors may be processed using
a petty cash account. The contracting officer shall ensure that:
         a.   The account is established in an amount sufficient to cover small
purchases made during a reasonable period;
         b.   Security is maintained and only authorized individuals have
access to the account; and
         c.   The account is periodically reconciled and replenished by
submission of a voucher to the city treasurer.
      3.   Small Purchases Of Three Thousand Dollars Or Less: For small
purchases at or below three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) in value, only one
quotation need be solicited if the price received is considered reasonable.
Such purchases must be distributed equitably among qualified sources. If
practicable, a quotation should be solicited from other than the previous
source before placing a repeat order.
      4.   Small Purchases Over Three Thousand Dollars: For small purchases
estimated to have a value over three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), but not
greater than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) for construction or public
improvements and twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for goods or
services, no less than three (3) quotations shall be solicited. The quotations
may be obtained orally, by telephone, fax, e-mail, or in writing, as allowed by
federal, state, or local laws. Award shall be made to the offeror with the
lowest responsible and responsive bid whose bid meets the requirements of the
specifications unless the solicitation is for professional services.
When professional service quotations are solicited, the solicitation document
must specify the nonprice factors used to rate and rank the quotations
received. In lieu of the list of price quotations, a memorandum shall be
retained in the file documents how the quotes were rated and ranked.
If fewer than three (3) qualified vendors or contractors are available in the
market area within which it is practical to obtain quotations, a memorandum
shall be placed in the file documenting the limited number of qualified
vendors.
Records of all procurement actions shall include the names, addresses and/or
telephone numbers of those solicited and those provided quotations, and the
date and amount set aside for each procurement above the small purchase
limitation, as well as the cost/price analysis of the quotations received for
all procurements.
   C.   Sealed Bids:
      1.   Conditions For Use: Contracts shall be awarded based on competitive
sealed bidding if the following conditions are present:
         a.   A complete, adequate, and realistic specification of the
materials or goods to be purchased or the work to be accomplished has been
prepared;
         b.   The procurement lends itself to a firm, fixed fee contract; and
         c.   The selection of the successful bidder can be made principally on
the basis of price.
Sealed bidding is the preferred method for public improvement contracts. For
procurement under public improvement contracts to include projects funded by
the motor fuel tax, sealed bidding shall be used for all construction and
equipment purchases exceeding the small purchase threshold of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) for construction or public improvements and twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for goods or services.
      2.   Solicitation And Receipt Of Bids: An invitation to bid shall be
publicly advertised, and the bid package shall include specifications, drawings
(if applicable), and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
procurement, including a statement that the award will be made to the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder whose bid meets the requirements of the
invitation to bid. The invitation to bid shall state the time and place for
both the receipt of bids and the public bid opening. All bids received shall be
date/time stamped at receipt, but not opened, and shall be stored in a secure
place until bid opening. A bidder may withdraw its bid at any time prior to bid
opening.
   D.   Competitive Proposals:
      1.   Conditions For Use: Competitive proposals are used for professional
services including turnkey proposals for development, if there is an adequate
method to evaluate technical proposals. An adequate number of qualified sources
shall be solicited.
      2.   Solicitation: The request for proposals (RFP) shall clearly identify
the relative importance of price and other evaluation factors and subfactors,
including the weight given to each technical factor and subfactor. A mechanism
for fairly and thoroughly evaluating the technical and price proposals shall be
established before the solicitation is issued. The city shall not disclose the
number of offerors, identity of offerors, or the content of their proposals.
The proposals shall be evaluated only on the criteria stated in the request for
proposals.
      3.   Architect/Engineer Services: Procurement of architectural and
engineering (A&E) services in excess of the small purchase limitation may use
either the competitive proposal process or qualifications based selection (QBS)
procedures. Sealed bidding shall not be used to procure A&E services.
When QBS procurement is used, competitive qualifications are evaluated and the
most qualified offeror is selected, subject to the negotiation of fair and
reasonable compensation. Price is not used as a selection factor under this
method. (Ord. 383, 2-26-2013)
1-12-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Bidding And Contract Procedures:
      1.   Advertisement For Bids: When required by law or as a condition of
funding, a notice inviting bids shall be mailed, e-mailed, or delivered to
potential bidders by the responsible city official no less than ten (10) days
before the bid opening. The city shall also advertise all pending work or
purchases by posting a notice on the public bulletin board in the city hall, on
the city's website, and if deemed appropriate on an internet based site listing
potential contracts from other similarly situated municipalities.
      2.   Scope Of Notice: The notice required herein shall include a general
description of the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall
state where specifications may be secured, and shall specify the time and place
for opening bids.
      3.   Bid Deposits: When deemed necessary by the city council, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful
bidders shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of
the contract by the city council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid
deposit required by the city council upon failure on its part to enter into a
contract within ten (10) days after the award.
Such bid deposit may be in the form of a certified check, bond, or letter of
credit in an amount as specified in the advertisement for bids to ensure
finalization of the contract and to indemnify the city against all loss,
damages, and claims that may accrue against the city as a consequence of the
granting of the contract.
      4.   Bid Opening Procedure:
         a.   Sealed Bids: Sealed bids shall be submitted sealed to the city
and shall be identified as bids on the envelope.
         b.   Opening Bids: Opening bids shall be opened in public at the time
and place stated in the public notice.
         c.   Tabulation: A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by
the city council or by a city employee, in which event a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the city council at its next regular meeting.
      5.   Rejection Of Bids: The city, through its corporate authorities,
shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids when the
public interest will be served thereby.
      6.   Bidders In Default To City: The city shall not accept the bid of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other money
due the city.
      7.   Award Of Contract:
         a.   Authority In City: The city council shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this section.
         b.   Lowest Responsible Bidder: Contracts shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interests
of the city to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the city
council shall consider:
            (1)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
            (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
            (3)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
            (4)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws
and ordinances relating to the contract or service;
            (5)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service.
         c.   Performance Bonds: The city council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city
and to conform to the statutory requirements for such bonds.
      8.   Professional Services Exempt From Bidding Requirements: All
contracts for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys,
engineers, real estate appraisers, and architects, and any other profession
whose ethical code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal
bidding procedures, may be entered into by the city without observing the
bidding procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal
contracts.
Regular employment contracts in the municipal service shall likewise be exempt
from the provisions of this chapter.
      9.   Emergency Purchases: In case of an apparent emergency that requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials, or services, the city
council shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set
forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials, or
services regardless of the amount of the expenditure. A finding of such an
emergency shall be made in an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of
the city council at the time of such emergency contract or no later than the
first regular city council meeting thereafter.
      10.   Cooperative Purchasing: The city shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the city would be served thereby.
      11.   Change Orders: Change orders dealing with an increase or a decrease
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more or a change order which extends
the time of completion by thirty (30) days or more shall require approval by
the majority of the city council. Furthermore, determinations in writing must
be made as follows:
         a.   The circumstances said to necessitate the change in performance
were not reasonable or foreseeable at the time the contract was signed,
         b.   The change is germane to the original contract as signed, or
         c.   The change order is in the best interest of the city.
      12.   Contracts For Work On City Streets: All contracts for work on the
city's streets in excess of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) shall be bid in
accordance with the rules for bidding of the Illinois department of
transportation, applicable to projects to be funded with funds from the motor
fuel tax. (Ord. 383, 2-26-2013)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION HEARINGS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Adoption Of State Statute
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Code Hearing Office
1-13-4: Powers Of Hearing Officers
1-13-5: Requirements Of Hearing Officers
1-13-6: Code Hearing Procedure
1-13-7: Subpoenas
1-13-8: Default
1-13-9: Continuances And Representation At Code Hearings
1-13-10: Evidence At Hearing
1-13-11: Retaliatory Action Against Occupants Prohibited
1-13-12: Defenses To Code Violations
1-13-13: Findings, Decision, Order Of The Hearing Officer
1-13-14: Administrative Review Law To Apply
1-13-15: Enforcement Of Judgment
1-13-16: Findings And Sanctions To Run With Property On Code Violations
1-13-1: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE:
The city adopts division 2.1 of article I (the "division" 1 ) of the Illinois
municipal code as it may be amended from time to time and as allowed by said
division. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq.
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ALLEGED VIOLATOR: Person charged with violating any ordinance or law in the
Leland Grove city code of ordinances, as amended.
BUILDING CODE: Any municipal ordinance, law, housing or building code or zoning
ordinance that establishes construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures in a municipality.
CODE: Any ordinance or law listed in or adopted by the Leland Grove city code
of ordinances, as amended.
HEARING OFFICER: A city employee or an officer or agent of the city, other than
an inspector or law enforcement officer, whose duty it is to:
   A.   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or not
a code violation exists;
   B.   Hear testimony and accept evidence from the inspector, the building or
property owner and all interested parties relevant to the existence of a code
violation;
   C.   Take judicial notice of all public records of Sangamon County,
Illinois;
   D.   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing and
all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
   E.   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating whether a
code violation exists.
INSPECTOR: A full or part time city employee or contractor whose duties include
the inspection or examination of structures or property in the city to
determine if zoning or other code violations exist.
NONBUILDING CODE: Any ordinance or law listed in or adopted by the Leland Grove
city code of ordinances.
OFFICER: A full or part time Leland Grove police department officer. (Ord. 409,
7-26-2016)
1-13-3: CODE HEARING OFFICE:
   A.   There is hereby established a code hearing office within the city
administrator's duties, the function of which is to expedite the prosecution
and correction of code violations in the manner set out in the division and
this chapter. The hearing officer and such other agents or employees assigned
to assist the hearing officer by the mayor, shall constitute the code hearing
office.
   B.   The adoption of this chapter does not preclude the city from using
other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of this code. (Ord. 409, 7-26-
2016)
1-13-4: POWERS OF HEARING OFFICERS:
The hearing officers shall have the following powers:
   A.   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or not
a code violation exists;
   B.   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the existence of
a code violation;
   C.   Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
   D.   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing and
all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
   E.   Issue a written determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, stating whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision and order
including the fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must comply;
and
   F.   Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and assess
costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation. The maximum
monetary fine under this section shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00). The fine shall be exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs
imposed to secure compliance with the municipality's ordinances and shall not
be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of any tax imposed and
collected by the municipality. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-5: REQUIREMENTS OF HEARING OFFICERS:
Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings, administrative
hearing officers shall have successfully completed a formal training program
which includes the following:
   A.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
   B.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they will
adjudicate;
   C.   Observation of administrative hearings;
   D.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and
issuing final orders;
   E.   Every administrative hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years; and
   F.   Certification that subsections A through E of this section have been
met issued by the city attorney and the mayor. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-6: CODE HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.   When an inspector or officer finds a code violation, he shall note the
violation on a violation notice and report form, indicating the name and
address of the property owner or alleged violator, the type and nature of the
violation, the date and time the violation was observed, the names of witnesses
to the violation, and the address of the property or location where the
violation was observed.
   B.   The violation report form shall be forwarded by the inspector or
officer to the code hearing office where a docket number shall be affixed to
the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank spaces provided for that
purpose on the form. For any code violation, the hearing date shall not be less
than fourteen (14) days after a code violation is reported by the inspector or
officer. Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided that
for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations, if requested by the
defendant, the defendant shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of
process to prepare for a hearing. For purposes of this subsection B,
"nonemergency situation" means any situation that does not reasonably
constitute a threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare. If service is
provided by mail, the fifteen (15) day period shall begin to run on the day
that the notice is deposited in the mail.
   C.   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the code hearing office and shall be part of the record of hearing, one copy
of the report form shall be returned to the inspector or officer and one copy
of the report form shall be served by personal service or first class mail on
the alleged violator or the owner of the property, in the case of a code
violation, along with a summons commanding the owner to appear at the hearing.
For code violations, if the name of the owner of the property cannot be
ascertained or if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be
made on the owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on
the front door of the property where the violation was found, not less than
fourteen (14) days before the hearing date.
   D.   Parties shall be served with process in a manner reasonably calculated
to give them actual notice, including, as appropriate, personal service of
process upon a party or its employees or agents; service by mail at a party's
address; or notice that is posted upon the property where a code violation is
found when the party is the owner or manager of the property.
   E.   Parties shall be given notice of an adjudicatory hearing which includes
the type and nature of the code violation to be adjudicated, the date and
location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction
under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear
at the hearing.
   F.   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing during
which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross examine
opposing witnesses. Parties may request the hearing officer to issue subpoenas
to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production
of relevant documents. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-7: SUBPOENAS:
At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer assigned to hear the
case may, at the request of the inspector, the officer, or the attorney for the
city, or the alleged violator or his attorney, issue subpoenas directing
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-8: DEFAULT:
If on the date set for hearing the alleged violator or his attorney fails to
appear, the hearing officer may find the alleged violator in default and shall
proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a
code violation.
No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of the
evidence; provided, however, that a violation notice, or a copy thereof, issued
and signed in accordance with section
1-13-6 of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts specified therein. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-9: CONTINUANCES AND REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS:
The case for the city may be presented by the inspector, by any other city
employee or by an attorney designated by the city. However, in no event shall
the case for the city be presented by an employee of the code hearing office.
The case for a dwelling owner involving a code violation may be presented by
the owner, his attorney, or any other agent or representative. The case for an
alleged violator involving a code violation may be presented by the alleged
violator or his attorney.
For code violations, no continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer
in proceedings under this chapter except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the owner. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance.
Continuances should be scheduled with reasonable promptness. (Ord. 409, 7-26-
2016)
1-13-10: EVIDENCE AT HEARING:
At the hearing, a hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept any evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code
violation. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this chapter. Evidence, including
hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by
reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-11: RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST OCCUPANTS PROHIBITED:
No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or
other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an occupant
of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a
code violation hearing. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-12: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a defense to a code violation charged under this chapter if the
owner, his attorney, or any other agent or representative proves to the hearing
officer's satisfaction that:
   A.   The code violation alleged in the notice did not in fact exist at the
time of the alleged violation; or
   B.   The code violation has been removed or remedied by the alleged violator
at the time of the hearing, but only if the alleged violator has not had a code
violation within the previous twenty four (24) months. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-13: FINDINGS, DECISION, ORDER OF THE HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination, on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing, whether
or not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall
be designated as the findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and
order shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether
or not a code violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order,
ordering the owner to correct the violation or dismissing the case in the event
a violation is not proved. If a code violation is proved, the order may also
impose the sanctions that are provided in the code for the violation proved. A
copy of the findings, decision, and order shall be served on the owner within
five (5) days after they are issued; service shall be in the same manner as the
report form and summons are served pursuant to section
1-13-6 of this chapter. Payment of any penalty or fine shall be made to the
city treasurer's office and the disposition of fine money may be determined,
from time to time, by separate ordinance or resolution of the city council.
   B.   In the event that the order provides for the correction of the
violation, the hearing officer shall establish a hearing date which would be
after the date established for the correction of the violation in order to
determine compliance with the order. At such time, the hearing officer shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the correction of the
violation in accordance with the order. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-14: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW TO APPLY:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
and shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review law.
(Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-15: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois administrative
review law are a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by a
municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing
officer pursuant to this subsection C, the municipality shall provide notice to
the defendant that states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before
the administrative hearing officer to determine whether the defendant has
failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a
hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days from the date that notice
is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to
run on the date that the notice was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the code
of civil procedure or by the uniform commercial code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount
of any debt due and owing the municipality under this section. The lien may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   E.   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and set
a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after the
issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines that the
petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any time
if the petitioner establishes that the municipality did not provide proper
service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to this subsection E,
the hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any
lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the municipality as a
result of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
1-13-16: FINDINGS AND SANCTIONS TO RUN WITH PROPERTY ON CODE VIOLATIONS:
The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the city as
the result of a finding of a code violation under this chapter shall attach to
the property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision and order of a hearing officer under
this chapter. (Ord. 409, 7-26-2016)
CHAPTER 14
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-14-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-14-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-14-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-14-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-14-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-14-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-14-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the City of Leland Grove to prohibit harassment
of any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal
officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 420, 12-19-2017; Ord. 447, 1-26-
2021)
1-14-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This chapter adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   A.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person". (Ord. 420, 12-19-2017; Ord. 447, 1-26-2021)
1-14-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes she/he to be the
object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as directly and
firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to the offending
employee and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary for sexual
harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   A.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, the
City Administrator, or the Mayor of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this chapter is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   B.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   C.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 420,
12-19-2017; Ord. 447, 1-26-2021)
1-14-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
chapter,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this chapter, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 420, 12-19-2017;
Ord. 447, 1-26-2021)
1-14-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this chapter or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, applicable
discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State law or Federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
State or Federal agency. (Ord. 420, 12-19-2017; Ord. 447, 1-26-2021)
1-14-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 420, 12-19-2017; Ord.
447, 1-26-2021)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Fiscal Year
2-1-2: Deposit Of City Funds
2-1-3: Investment Policy
2-1-4: Joint Purchasing With State
2-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the City shall begin on June 1 of each year and end on May
31 of the following year. (Ord. 5, 6-30-1950)
2-1-2: DEPOSIT OF CITY FUNDS:
   A.   Depository Designated: A licensed financial institution located in
close proximity to the City shall be designated to be the depository for all
City funds. The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to open accounts in said
institution or institutions and endorse and deposit in said accounts of the
City any and all monies, checks, drafts, bills of exchange and other deposit
items.
   B.   Convenience Fee: The City shall charge a convenience fee of three
percent (3%) on all payments in which a credit or debit card is utilized. (Ord.
426, 6-26-2018)
   C.   Signature On Checks: The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to sign
checks or orders withdrawing or ordering payments from said accounts. (Ord.
195, 5-23-1983)
2-1-3: INVESTMENT POLICY:
An investment policy, in the form and manner attached to ordinance 318, passed
October 26, 1999, is hereby adopted by the City. A copy of said ordinance is on
file in the Office of the City Clerk for public use and inspection. (2008 Code)
2-1-4: JOINT PURCHASING WITH STATE:
The purchasing officials of the City designated by ordinance or resolution of
the City Council are hereby authorized to participate in joint purchasing
contracts with the State for the purchase of such supplies as the State
purchases through centralized procurement for public use. (Ord. 125, 2-26-1973)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
2-2-2: Municipal Use Tax
2-2-3: Municipal Gas Utility Tax
2-2-4: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
2-2-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code, approved May 29, 1961, as amended.
   B.   Collection And Enforcement Of Tax: The tax imposed hereby, and all
civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected
and enforced by the state department of revenue. The department shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section. (Ord. 234, 5-
24-1988, eff. 7-1-1988)
2-2-2: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions
of section
8-11-6 of the Illinois municipal code upon the privilege of using in the city
any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of
Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
selling price of such tangible property, with selling price to have the meaning
as defined in the use tax act 1 , approved July 14, 1955, as amended.
   B.   Scope Of Tax: The tax shall be collected from persons whose Illinois
address for titling is given as being in the city of Leland Grove.
   C.   Collection And Enforcement Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the
Illinois department of revenue for the city and shall be paid before the title
or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued. The
department of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 235, 5-24-1988, eff. 7-1-1988)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
2-2-3: MUNICIPAL GAS UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "gross receipts"
shall mean the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be;
and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property
of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall
be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of the service,
product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service
costs, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed on all persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or
consumption within the corporate limits of the city, and not for resale, at the
rate of five percent (5%) of the gross receipts therefrom.
   C.   Exemptions From Tax: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor
shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by
section
8-11-1, of the Illinois municipal code, as amended. (Ord. 236, 5-24-1988; amd.
2008 Code)
   D.   Scope Of Tax: Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or
value of products or services furnished to the city by the taxpayer as
compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or
installation and maintenance therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires,
pipes, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
(Ord. 236, 5-24-1988)
   E.   Effective Date Of Tax: The tax provided herein shall be based on the
"gross receipts", as defined in subsection A of this section, actually paid to
the taxpayer for services billed on or after September 1, 1988. The tax imposed
herein is reimposed from February 28, 1994, until such time as such tax is
amended or repealed by further action of the city council. (Ord. 236, 5-24-
1988; amd. Ord. 286, 2-22-1994)
   F.   Filing Dates Of Tax:
      1.   On or before December 31, 1988, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the city treasurer, for the months of September, October, and November 1988,
stating:
         a.   The taxpayer's name.
         b.   The taxpayer's principal place of business.
         c.   The gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which
the tax is imposed.
         d.   The amount of the tax. (Ord. 236, 5-24-1988)
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the city council
may require. (Ord. 236, 5-24-1988; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
taxpayer shall make a like return to the city treasurer for a corresponding
three (3) month period.
      3.   The taxpayer making the return provided for herein shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if
such taxpayer so elects, report and pay an amount based upon its total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   G.   Overpayment Of Tax; Refund: If it shall appear that an amount of tax
has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether
as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall
be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid for more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor
shall be so credited. (Ord. 236, 5-24-1988)
   H.   Penalties: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provisions of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due. (Ord. 236, 5-24-1988; amd. 2008 Code)
2-2-4: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under the
provisions of sections 5-25 and 5-30 of the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act, P.A. 92-0526 1 , is six percent (6%). This section
shall take effect for all gross charges billed by telecommunications retailers
on and after January 1, 2004. (Ord. 331, 8-26-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING FEES AND COMPENSATION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Fees For Hearings
2-3-2: Compensation Of Zoning Officials
2-3-1: FEES FOR HEARINGS 1 :
The fee for hearing appeals from decisions of the zoning official, or for a
special use permit, or for variations of the terms of the zoning ordinance by
the zoning board of appeals shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) to cover
the cost of the proceedings before the zoning board of appeals and any
inspections required by the city. These fees shall be paid to the city
treasurer. (Ord. 350, 1-24-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  9-2-7 of this code.
2-3-2: COMPENSATION OF ZONING OFFICIALS 1 :
Each member of the zoning board of appeals and the zoning official shall
receive a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for attendance at each hearing
session he or she attends, even if more than one matter is considered. These
fees shall be payable on an annual basis. (Ord. 350, 1-24-2006)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 9-2A-5 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Cable/Video Service Fee Imposed
2-4-3: Applicable Principles
2-4-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
2-4-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
2-4-6: Late Fees/Payments
2-4-7: Non Impairment Of Existing Or Renewed Agreements
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE      Means that term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
SERVICE
COMMISSION Means the Illinois Commerce Commission.
           Means all consideration of any kind or nature, including, without limitation, cash,
           credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the holder for the operation
           of a cable or video system to provide cable service or video service within the
           holder's cable service or video service area within the Village [City].
              (1)   Gross revenues shall include the following:
                 (a)   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
                 (b)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service, including, but not
           limited to, pay-per-view and video-on demand charges.
                 (c)   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service equipment.
              (2)   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
                 (d)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video service,
           including but not limited to activation, installation, and repair charges.
                 (e)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or video
           service, including but not limited to service order and service termination
           charges.      
                 (f)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and other
           charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
                 (g)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its affiliates
           pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for promotion or exhibition of
           any products or services derived from the operation of the holder's network to provide
           cable service or video service within the City. The allocation shall be  based on the
           number of subscribers in the City divided by the total number of subscribers in
           relation to the relevant regional or national compensation arrangement.
                 (h)   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the operation of
           the holder's network to provide cable service or video service with respect to
           commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for promotion or exhibition
           of any products or services on the holder's network, such as a ''home shopping'' or
           similar channel, subject to subsection (ix).
                 (i)   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
           integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the portion
           of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services, capabilities, or
           applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the holder can reasonably
           identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from its books and records that are
GROSS      kept in the regular course of business.
REVENUES         (j)   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
              (2)   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
                 (a)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt, subject
           to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(l)(vi).
                 (b)   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of
           gross revenues received by the holder of the State-issued authorization to the extent
           the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable service or video
           service.
                 (c)   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or functionally
           integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues received from services not
           classified as cable service or video service, including, without limitation, revenue
           received from telecommunication services, information services, or the provision of
           directory or Internet advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner
           advertisement, and electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder
           to noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
           records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable laws,
           rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
                 (d)   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
           purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
           subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will resell the
           service within the City and pay the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801 (b) with respect
           to the service.
                 (e)   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or the
           transaction by a city, State, federal, or any other governmental entity and collected
           by the holder of the State-issued authorization and required to be remitted to the
           taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
                 (f)   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
                 (g)   Amounts paid by subscribers to ''home shopping'' or similar vendors for
           merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable service
           or video service.
              (3)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the calculation of
           gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as revenue of the affiliate
           rather than the holder has the effect of evading the payment of the fee permitted by
           220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video
           service.
HOLDER     Means a person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide cable or
           video service from the Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
           Means the provision of ''cable service'' or ''video service'' to subscribers and the
SERVICE    interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received authorization to
           offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
           401.
SERVICE    Means the amount paid under this Chapter and 220 ILCS 5/21-801 by the holder to a City
PROVIDER   for the service areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
FEE
           Means video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
           selection or use of such video programming services, and which is provided through
           wireline facilities located at least in part in the public right-of-way without regard
VIDEO      to delivery technology, including Internet protocol technology. This definition does
SERVICE    not include any video programming provided by a commercial mobile service provider
           defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d) or any video programming provided solely as part of, and
           via, service that enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or
           other services offered over the public Internet. (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
 
2-4-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the City.
   B.    Amount of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues. Provided further that the fee
shall be subject to change to the extent that state statute authorizing this
fee is changed in the future.
   C.   Notice To The City: The holder shall notify the City at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the City.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the City. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of
the ordinance adopting this Chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
Chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
City.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty-five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the City in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under Section
2-4-2(b). (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
2-4-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
2-4-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the City, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the City's simplified
municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A state-issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
2-4-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The City will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the City imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the City. If all
local franchises between the City and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the City pursuant to the Local
Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of
amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
2-4-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers' Bill
of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
2-4-7: NON IMPAIRMENT OF EXISTING OR RENEWED AGREEMENTS:
Nothing contained herein shall abrogate, impair, or otherwise effect any cable/
video service agreements entered into with the City prior to the effective date
of this chapter. Renewals or revisions to such existing agreements may be
subject to the provisions herein if the cable provider elects to secure
authorization from the Commission as provided herein. (Ord. 445, 10-27-2020)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Required
3-1-3: Club License Only
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall be construed according to
the following definitions:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.05%) or less of alcohol by volume.
CLUB: The Illini Country Club, Leland Grove, Illinois.
SALE: The sale for use of consumption and not for resale. (Ord. 337, 6-22-2004;
amd. 2008 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale in the city any alcoholic liquor
without having a license from the city. (Ord. 337, 6-22-2004)
3-1-3: CLUB LICENSE ONLY:
   A.   Application For License: Application for a club license shall be made
in writing and shall be filed with the city clerk.
   B.   License Fee: A club in the city shall pay an annual license fee of
eight hundred dollars ($800.00). Said license fee shall be paid on or before
July 1 of each year, and the license shall run from July 1 through June 30 of
each year hereafter.
   C.   Number Of Licenses: There shall be issued in the city no more than one
club license, and there shall be issued no other liquor licenses of any kind.
   D.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation for any club license shall
be seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the next morning.
(Ord. 337, 6-22-2004)
CHAPTER 2
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Certificate Of Registration Required; Exemptions
3-2-3: Ineligibility For Certificate
3-2-4: Application For Certificate; Fee
3-2-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate
3-2-6: Contents Of Certificate
3-2-7: Revocation Of Certificate
3-2-8: Days And Hours Of Soliciting
3-2-9: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as herein provided, and which certificate is in the possession of
the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Going from residence to residence seeking to obtain orders for the
purchase of, or selling goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, or services of
any kind, character or description whatever, for any kind of consideration
whatever; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
Every person, except a resident of the city, desiring to engage in
"soliciting", as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter, from persons in residences within the city is hereby
required to make written application for a certificate of registration as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR CERTIFICATE:
No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois
or any other state or of the United States within five (5) years prior to the
date of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person whose
certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as
herein provided. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; FEE:
   A.   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the city clerk or the chief of police or his designee, and shall be
submitted to the chief of police or his designee. The applicant shall
truthfully state, in full, the following information requested on the
application: (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; business address if other than residence address;
social security number; and driver's license number. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985; amd.
2008 Code)
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than present address.
      3.   Physical description of the applicant.
      4.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
      5.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if
other than the present employer.
      6.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in.
      7.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
      8.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this chapter, if any.
      9.   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under this
chapter ever been revoked?
      10.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or the ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting?
      11.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or any law of the
United States?
      12.   Such additional information as the chief of police or his designee
may deem necessary to process the application.
   B.   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   C.   A fee of five dollars ($5.00) to defray the expense of investigation
shall be paid to the city clerk at the time the application is submitted.
   D.   The chief of police or his designee shall keep in his office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE:
The chief of police or his designee, after investigation and consideration of
the application and all information obtained relative thereto, shall, within
forty eight (48) hours, either approve the application and issue the
registration certificate or deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein required or if he
finds that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would
not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall
be made by the chief of police or his designee upon the approval of the
application or denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be
fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
(Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-6: CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE:
The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date thereof. (Ord.
209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-7: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by the chief
of police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false material statement in
the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately upon
such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the chief of police
or his designee to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of registration
shall become null and void. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-8: DAYS AND HOURS OF SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting", as
defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985)
3-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 209, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC HEALTH RULES AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A.  DEFINITIONS; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: County Department Of Public Health
4-1A-3: Violations And Violation Ticket
4-1A-4: Lien Provisions
4-1A-5: Penalty
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the words "building", "dwelling", "dwelling unit", or "premises" are
used in this chapter, including articles A through H, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words "or any part thereof". For the
purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
BASEMENT: A story partly below grade, with at least one-half (1/2) of its
height (measured from floor to ceiling) above grade.
BUILDING: Any structure, whether public or private, that is adapted for
transaction of business, or for human habitation or occupancy.
CELLAR: A story partly below grade with more than one-half (1/2) of its height
(measured from floor to ceiling) below grade.
DEPARTMENT OR PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Sangamon County department of
public health.
DIRECTOR OR DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH: The director of the Sangamon County
department of public health.
DWELLING: Any structure and any attachment to same which is wholly or partly
used or intended to be used for human habitation, provided that temporary
housing as herein defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
EMERGENCY HEALTH HAZARD: Any person, premises, or condition that is determined
to be of immediate harm, prejudice, or danger to the health of any person or
the public.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH INSPECTOR: Any designated representative of the public
health department authorized to inspect premises for public health purposes.
EXTENSIVE: Any alterations or additions costing more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the replacement value of the structure.
EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridors,
closets, and storage spaces.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any person, premises, or condition that is determined to pose a
threat of harm, prejudice, or danger to the health of any person or the public.
INFESTATION: The presence of any insects, rodents, or other pests on any
premises.
LEAD BEARING SUBSTANCE: Any paint, varnish, lacquer, or other applied surface
coatings or putty which contains a quantity of lead more than 0.06 percent by
weight of its nonvolatile content, or has more than seven-tenths (0.7) of one
milligram per square centimeter or such lower standard for lead content in
residential paint as may hereafter be established by federal law and
regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOUSE: A dwelling designed and built in accordance with the one-
and two-family dwelling specifications of the International Code Council, Inc.,
or an equivalent authority.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: Any dwelling containing more than two (2) dwelling units.
OCCUPANT: Any person who has the use of or occupies any dwelling or building,
or a part or fraction thereof, whether the actual owner or tenant. In the case
of vacant buildings or any vacant portion of a building, the owner, agent, or
other person having custody of the building shall have the responsibility of an
occupant of a building.
OWNER: Any person who:
   A.   Has legal or equitable title to any building, dwelling, or dwelling
unit; or
   B.   Has custody of the building, dwelling, or dwelling unit, or to whom
rent is paid; or
   C.   Manages, maintains, or controls a dwelling, dwelling unit, or building,
or is entitled to the control or direction of the management or disposition of
a dwelling, dwelling unit, or building.
PERMANENT HABITATION: A period of two (2) or more months.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, group, or association.
PEST ERADICATION: The elimination or extermination of pests within buildings so
that the buildings are completely freed of pests or there is no evidence of
pest infestation remaining.
PEST HARBORAGE: Any condition which provides shelter, food source, or
protection for pests, thus favoring their multiplication and continued
existence in, under or outside of a structure of any kind.
PESTPROOFING: A form of construction to prevent the ingress and egress of pests
from one building to another. Pestproofing consists of treating all actual or
potential openings in the exterior walls, ground or first floors, basements,
roofs, and foundations that may be reached by pests from the ground by climbing
or by burrowing.
PESTS: Undesirable arthropods (including certain insects, spiders, mites,
ticks, and related organisms), wood infesting organisms, rats, mice, and other
obnoxious undesirable animals. The term does not include a feral cat, a
"companion animal" as that term is defined in the humane care for animals act 1
, "animals" as that term is defined in the Illinois diseased animals act 2 , or
animals protected by the wildlife code 3 .
PLUMBING: Gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents, and any other similarly supplied fixtures, together with all
connection to water, sewer, or gas lines.
PREMISES: Land and its appurtenances including, but not limited to, buildings
or dwellings.
RANK GROWTH OF WEEDS: Weeds or grass growing upon property to a greater height
than one foot (1').
REFUSE HAULER: Any person in the business of collecting garbage or rubbish for
consideration.
RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY: Any federal, state, county, or municipal regulatory
agency.
SOLID WASTE: Putrescible and nonputrescible wastes including, but not limited
to, garbage, rubbish, dead animals, animal offal, animal feces, human wastes,
abandoned vehicles, machinery components, construction or demolition debris,
and landscape wastes.
SUPPLIED: Paid for, furnished, provided by, or under the control of the owner.
TOXIC HEAVY METAL BASED COATINGS: Any paint, varnish, lacquer, or other applied
surface coating and putty which contain antimony, arsenic, cadmium, mercury, or
selenium of which the total metal contents individually or in total exceeds
0.05 percent of its total weight.
UNDUE LEAD ABSORPTION: A level in the blood in excess of thirty (30) micrograms
of lead per one hundred milliliters (100 ml) of blood.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION: Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found
to be damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, or vermin infested;
lacking in illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities; or unsanitary or
dangerous to the occupants or the public by virtue of its general condition or
location. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. Ord. 237, 6-27-1988; 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 70/2.01a.
2 2. 510 ILCS 50/1.
3 3. 520 ILCS 5/1.1 et seq.
4-1A-2: COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH:
   A.   City Contract With County: The city contracts with Sangamon County for
public health inspection and control service, and the director of the county
department of public health shall have all of the powers in the city conferred
by this chapter.
   B.   Powers And Duties: Without limiting the powers and duties prescribed by
law and ordinance, the public health department shall:
      1.   Enforce all public health provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Establish and maintain programs regarding food sanitation, child
health, maternal health, housing standards, communicable disease control, solid
waste, dental health, nuisance control, chronic disease, and other programs
with emphasis on disease prevention and environmental protection.
      3.   Inspect any premises where the owner or occupant permits entry and
seek an administrative search warrant when entry is denied if, based on
probable cause, an emergency health hazard is believed to exist.
   C.   Jurisdiction: The jurisdiction of the public health department, for the
purpose of enforcing health and quarantine ordinances and regulations, shall be
throughout the corporate limits of the city and to a point one-half (1/2) mile
beyond. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1A-3: VIOLATIONS AND VIOLATION TICKET:
   A.   Authority To Issue: The public health department shall have the
authority to issue a public health violation ticket to any person who shall
violate the provisions of this chapter. The public health violation ticket is a
notice to the recipient of the ticket to correct the named violation.
   B.   Correction Of Violations: The violation shall be corrected within ten
(10) days or such lesser time as stated in the section cited by the owner or
the occupant of the premises on which the violation has occurred. Where a
violation constitutes an emergency health hazard, the violation shall be
corrected within twenty four (24) hours by the owner or occupant of the
premises on which the violation has occurred. However, in the case of an
emergency health hazard, the department may correct or have the violation
corrected on its behalf without first issuing a public health violation ticket
or without waiting twenty four (24) hours after the ticket is issued. In all
cases, it shall be the ultimate responsibility of the owner of the premises on
which the violation exists to correct the violation. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
   C.   Contents Of Ticket: The public health violation ticket shall contain
the name and address of the violator, the location of the violation, a
statement of the violation, including the specific section of this chapter
being violated, a statement that the violation shall be corrected within the
time specified in the public health violation ticket, a statement that failure
to correct the violation complained of within the time stated on the ticket may
result in the city itself correcting the violation or the filing of an
ordinance violation that may result, upon conviction, in a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each day the violation continues, or both. (Ord. 225, 3-
25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
   D.   Service Of Ticket: Service of the public health violation ticket shall
be made in the following manner:
      1.   The original shall be served on the violator either by personal
delivery or by the regular mail. An authorized official of the department of
public health shall certify that he delivered the ticket personally to the
violator or mailed the ticket by regular mail to the violator.
      2.   One copy shall be delivered to the city attorney.
      3.   One copy shall be retained by the department of public health.
   E.   Failure To Correct Violations: Any person who is issued a public health
violation ticket and does not correct the violation within the time limit
specified therein shall be subject to the penalties provided in this article.
   F.   Additional Remedies: In no instance shall the ticket enforcement
procedure preclude the city from enforcing public health violations through any
other available remedies provided by this chapter, state or federal statute, or
common law. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1A-4: LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the city corrects the violation itself or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, a lien for the amount of time and expense involved in
correcting the violation shall be filed against the land where the violation
occurred, unless the owner or occupant of such land shall reimburse the city
its expenses upon request. A minimum charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each hour, or part of an hour, shall be levied for work performed by or on
behalf of the city in correcting a violation. Said lien shall be recorded with
the county records division within sixty (60) days after the work is performed
by the city or on behalf of the city, and foreclosure suit to collect the cost
of the lien shall be filed within two (2) years after the recording of the
lien.
   B.   If the city corrects the violation itself or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, the violator shall nevertheless be subject to the fine
specified in this article in addition to a lien being placed on the violator's
property. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1A-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter, or fails to comply
with any notice given by the department of public health as aforementioned
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day during which a violation
continues beyond the specified time for correction shall constitute a separate
punishable offense. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE B.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-1B-2: Slaughtering Animals
4-1B-3: Abandoned Containers
4-1B-4: Animal Feces
4-1B-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The presence of the following within the city is declared to be detrimental to
the public health, safety, and welfare and constitutes a nuisance:
   A.   Sound or things which interfere with the peace or comfort or disturb
the quiet enjoyment of any person in the city;
   B.   Anything which is made, permitted, used, kept, maintained or  operated,
or any building or any animal that is kept in a manner which is offensive,
nauseous, dangerous to life, limb, or property, or detrimental to the health of
the persons residing in that area;
   C.   Any filthy, foul, or offensive matter or liquid of any kind discharged
into any street, alley, or public place, or on any adjacent lot or ground;
   D.   Any lot, ground, or premises within the city on which stagnant water
may be standing so as to become or likely to become foul, putrid, offensive, or
detrimental to the health and comfort of persons residing in the vicinity
thereof;
   E.   The emission of dense smoke from the chimney or smokestack of any
building or premises or from any garbage or rubbish container;
   F.   Any spoiled, tainted, or diseased perishable agricultural commodity;
and
   G.   In addition to what is herein declared to be a nuisance, those offenses
known to the common law or of the state or federal statutes as nuisances may,
in case the same exist within the city, be treated as such and proceeded
against as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1B-2: SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS:
Whoever shall, within the city, butcher or slaughter any cattle, sheep, swine,
or other animal, or use any building or premises for such purpose, shall be
deemed guilty of creating a nuisance. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1B-3: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
   A.   No person shall abandon or discard in any place accessible to children
any refrigerator, icebox, or ice chest of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2)
cubic feet or more which has an attached lid or door which may be opened or
fastened shut by means of an attached latch.
   B.   No owner, lessee or manager of any premises shall knowingly permit to
remain thereon in any place accessible to children an abandoned refrigerator,
icebox or ice chest of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more
which has an attached lid or door which may be opened or fastened shut by means
of an attached latch. Upon notification from the department of public health
that such a condition exists, the owner, lessee or manager shall immediately
remove the abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest. If the
owner, lessee, or manager refuses to do so, or cannot be located, the
department of public health shall remove the lid or door and issue a public
health violation ticket requiring removal of the refrigerator, icebox or ice
chest within three (3) days after receipt of the ticket. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1B-4: ANIMAL FECES:
No owner, occupant or lessee of any premises shall allow animal feces which
constitute a health hazard to remain thereon. Any violation of this section
shall be corrected within three (3) days after receipt of a public health
violation ticket. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
ARTICLE C.  COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
SECTION:
4-1C-1: State Regulations Adopted
4-1C-2: Report Of Diseases
4-1C-3: Reportable Diseases And Conditions
4-1C-4: Isolation
4-1C-5: Placarding Premises
4-1C-6: Disinfection Procedure
4-1C-7: Refusal Of Admittance To Schools
4-1C-8: Authority To Order Epidemiologic Investigation
4-1C-9: Wilful Exposure
4-1C-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The state rules and regulations for the control of communicable diseases
promulgated by the state department of public health pursuant to an act in
relation to public health, as now or hereafter amended, are adopted and
incorporated herein by reference. A copy of said rules and regulations is on
file in the office of the city clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord. 225,
3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1C-2: REPORT OF DISEASES:
   A.   Duty To Report: It shall be the duty of every physician, dentist, other
practitioner, nurse, laboratory, hospital, parent, school authority, or other
person having knowledge of a known case or carrier or a suspected case or
carrier of communicable disease or communicable disease death, to report
promptly such case, suspected case, carrier, or death by telephone, or in
writing, to the director, and to cooperate in any case investigation conducted
by the public health department. If a known or suspected case or carrier of a
reportable communicable disease is hospitalized or examined in a hospital or
long term care facility, the administrator shall report the case promptly to
the public health department. Each case of communicable disease shall be
investigated to determine the source, where feasible. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
   B.   Contents Of Report: The report required under this section shall
include the name, age, sex, and address of the case or carrier, and name of the
attending physician. The public health department may also procure or require
to be submitted any laboratory findings including clinical findings in support
of the diagnosis and facts relevant to the source and possible hazard of
transmission of the infection. The public health department shall maintain the
confidentiality of information that would identify individual patients. The
public health department shall follow all statutory regulations in cases of
reporting communicable diseases, including sexually transmitted diseases. (Ord.
225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1C-3: REPORTABLE DISEASES AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Diseases: The diseases listed in subsections A1 and A2 of this section
are declared to be contagious, infectious, communicable, and dangerous to the
public health, and each suspected or diagnosed case shall be reported to the
public health department.
      1.   Report By Telephone: The following diseases shall be reported by
telephone as soon as possible: anthrax, cholera, diarrhea of the newborn,
diphtheria, food borne illness, measles, meningitis, meningococcemia, plague,
poliomyelitis, rabies (human), smallpox, typhoid fever, and typhus.
      2.   Report By Mail Or Telephone: The following diseases shall be
reported by mail or by telephone: acquired immune deficiency syndrome,
amebiasis, animal bites, brucellosis, chancroid, chickenpox, encephalitis,
enteropathogenic escherichia, coli infections, giardiasis, gonorrhea, granuloma
inguinale, hepatitis type A viral, hepatitis type B viral, hepatitis viral
unspecified, histoplasmosis, intestinal worms (tapeworms and ascariasis),
leprosy, leptospirosis, lymphogranuloma venereum (lymphogranuloma inguinale;
lymphopathia venereum), malaria, mumps, ophthalmia neonatorum (gonococcal),
psittacosis, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, rubella including congenital rubella
syndrome, salmonellosis (other than typhoid fever), shigellosis, staphylococcal
infections occurring within a healthcare institution or with onset less than
thirty (30) days following discharge, streptococcal infections including
complications, syphilis, tetanus, trachoma, trichinosis, tuberculosis, whooping
cough (pertussis).
   B.   Increased Incidence: The occurrence of any increase in incidence of
disease of unknown or unusual etiology should be reported with major signs and
symptoms listed. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1C-4: ISOLATION:
On being informed of the existence of a case or a carrier or of a suspected
case or carrier of a communicable disease, the director may require the
isolation of a patient or person when such isolation is warranted by medical or
clinical evidence. Duration and termination of an isolation order required by
the director shall follow rules and regulations prescribed by statute or in
accordance with medical or clinical evidence of freedom from communicable risk.
(Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1C-5: PLACARDING PREMISES:
Placarding shall only be necessary in unusual and compelling circumstances when
the control of the communicable disease cannot otherwise be implemented. In
cases when placarding is necessary, only the words "Keep Out" shall appear
visible to the approaching visitor. Placards shall only be removed by order of
the director. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1C-6: DISINFECTION PROCEDURE:
The director may order disinfection procedures in accordance with the standard
medical and environmental procedures pertinent to the communicable disease and
contributing contamination factors. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1C-7: REFUSAL OF ADMITTANCE TO SCHOOLS:
When a communicable disease occurs in a school, daycare center, or like
institution, children or any other person infected or suspected of being
infected with a reportable disease for which isolation is required, shall be
refused admittance to the institution. Authorities of these institutions shall
follow control recommendations of the public health department. (Ord. 225, 3-
25-1985)
4-1C-8: AUTHORITY TO ORDER EPIDEMIOLOGIC INVESTIGATION:
The director shall have authority to order that an epidemiologic investigation
be conducted to help control communicable disease. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1C-9: WILFUL EXPOSURE:
   A.   No person having any communicable disease enumerated herein, or in the
case of any severe health risk declared by the State of Illinois, or any person
who has been exposed to any communicable disease enumerated herein or declared
to be a significant health risk by the State of Illinois shall wilfully expose
others to the condition on any public street, public place, conveyance, or
vehicle while in danger of transmitting the disease to others. Any driver or
owner of such vehicle or conveyance shall immediately disinfect the same under
the direction of the public health department.
   B.   No person shall give, lend, sell, transmit, convey, or expose any
clothing, rags, bedding, or other things which have been exposed to infection
or contagion. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. Ord. 440, 3-24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-
2020)
ARTICLE D.  FOOD AND FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-1D-1: State Regulations Adopted
4-1D-2: Milk Sales And Distribution
4-1D-3: Food Service Establishments And Retail Food Stores
4-1D-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The state rules and regulations on food services sanitation and retail food
store sanitation, such as are now in force and effect or as may hereafter be
revised or amended, promulgated by the state department of public health, as
amended, are adopted and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of each of
said provisions is on file in the office of the city clerk for public use and
inspection. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1D-2: MILK SALES AND DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: All the minimum sanitary requirements of the
grade A pasteurized milk and milk products act 1  for the producing,
distributing, delivering, selling, offering for sale, collection, handling,
processing, storing, bottling, packaging, pasteurizing, labeling, preparing for
selling, or distributing of milk and milk products under a grade A pasteurized
label shall be in effect as fully as if set forth in detail in this section,
and such minimum sanitary requirements are declared to be absolute and
compulsory.
   B.   Grade A Pasteurized Milk Or Milk Products Only:
      1.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or deliver any milk or milk
products to any final consumer within the city except grade A pasteurized milk
or grade A pasteurized milk products which are so labeled.
      2.   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or deliver any raw milk to any
consumer, whether for human consumption or animal consumption, within the city.
   C.   Examination Of Milk And Milk Products:
      1.   The director of public health shall be authorized to take and
examine samples of milk and milk products from any person as often as he deems
necessary for the protection of the public health.
      2.   All proprietors of hotels, hospitals, food service establishments,
retail food stores, and other similar establishments shall furnish the
director, upon his request, the names of all distributors from whom their milk
and milk products are obtained. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 635/1 et seq.
4-1D-3: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS AND RETAIL FOOD STORES:
   A.   Certificate Required: No food service establishment or retail food
store shall be issued a food service establishment license, itinerant food
service establishment license, mobile food service establishment license or
retail food store license pursuant to the provisions of this article unless it
has been inspected by the director of public health or a designated
representative, it has been determined that the food service establishment
complies with all the requirements of this article, and the food service
establishment or retail food store has been issued a certificate to operate.
   B.   Display Of Certificate: The certificate issued pursuant to this section
shall be displayed in a conspicuous public place in the food service
establishment or retail food store before such food service establishment or
retail food store can be considered to be in compliance with this article.
   C.   Renewal Of Certificate: Food service establishment or retail food store
certificates shall be renewed every six (6) months following an inspection by
the department. In the event the inspection for the renewal of a certificate
reveals the existence of any emergency health hazard or any health hazard, or
repeated violations of this article, the certificate will not be renewed, and
the department shall notify the certificate holder immediately thereof. Such
notice shall state the reasons for nonrenewal of the certificate and shall also
state that an opportunity for a hearing, pursuant to the requirements of this
section, shall be granted. This notice shall be delivered to the certificate
holder in person or may be sent by certified mail.
   D.   New Certificate Required After Voluntary Closing: If a food service
establishment or retail food store ceases operation for one month or longer for
any reason, a new certificate must be obtained before the food service
establishment or retail food store may be reopened. If ownership of the food
service establishment or retail food store changes, the new operator may not
open the food service establishment or retail food store until a new
certificate and new license are obtained pursuant to the procedures set forth
in this article.
   E.   Inspections:
      1.   At least once every six (6) months, an environmental health
inspector shall inspect each food service establishment or retail food store
and shall make as many additional inspections and reinspections as are
necessary for the enforcement of this article. The environmental health
inspector, after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter at any time
during business hours any food service establishment or retail food store for
the purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this article. In
case of suspected or verified food borne disease outbreaks, the environmental
health inspector shall be permitted to examine the records of the food service
establishment or retail food store which contain pertinent information relative
to persons employed and food and supplies purchased, received or used.
      2.   The environmental health inspector shall record all findings on an
inspection report form provided for this purpose and shall furnish a copy of
such inspection report form to the certificate holder at the time of
inspection.
      3.   Whenever the environmental health inspector discovers that any of
the requirements of this article have been violated, he shall notify the
certificate holder or food service establishment or retail food store manager
of such violations by means of the inspection report form or other written
notice from the department. In such notification, the environmental health
inspector shall:
         a.   Set forth the specific violation found.
         b.   Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for the
correction of the violations found.
         c.   State that failure to comply with any notice issued in accordance
with the provisions of this article may result in immediate suspension of the
certificate.
         d.   State that an opportunity for appeal from any notice or
inspection findings will be provided if a written request for a hearing is
filed with the director within the period of time established in the notice of
correction.
      4.   Notices provided for under this section shall be deemed to have been
properly served when the original copy of the inspection report form or other
notice has been delivered personally or by certified mail, addressee only, to
the certificate holder or manager of the food service establishment or retail
food store. A copy of such notice shall be filed with the records of the
department.
   F.   Examination And Condemnation Of Food:
      1.   Food may be examined or requested for analysis by the department as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from adulteration or
misbranding. The director may, on written notice to the certificate holder or
the food service establishment or retail food store manager, place a hold order
on any food which is determined to be unwholesome or otherwise adulterated or
misbranded. Under a hold order, food shall be permitted to remain on the
premises; provided, that it is suitably stored and not served.
      2.   No person shall remove or alter a hold order notice or tag placed on
food or on the food service establishment or retail food store by
representatives of the department, and neither such food nor the containers
thereof shall be relabeled, repacked, reprocessed, altered, disposed of, or
destroyed without permission of the director, except on order by a court of
competent jurisdiction. After the certificate holder or food service
establishment or retail food store manager has had a hearing as provided for in
this section, and on the basis of evidence produced at such hearing, or on the
basis of an examination in the event a written request for a hearing is not
received within ten (10) days, the director may vacate the hold order or may,
by written order, direct the certificate holder or food service establishment
manager or retail food store manager of the food which was placed under the
hold order to destroy such food or bring it into compliance with the provisions
of this article.
   G.   Establishments Outside Jurisdiction Of Department: When food from food
service establishments or retail food stores outside the jurisdiction of the
department is sold within the jurisdiction of the department, such food service
establishments or retail food stores should conform to the provisions of this
article or to equivalent provisions of another jurisdiction. To determine the
extent of compliance with such provision, the department may accept reports
from responsible authorities in other jurisdictions where such food service
establishments or retail food stores are located.
   H.   Suspension Of Certificate; Reinstatement:
      1.   Temporary Suspension:
         a.   Food service establishment and retail food store certificates may
be suspended temporarily by the director for failure of the certificate holder
to continue to comply with the requirements of this article.
         b.   Whenever a certificate holder has failed to comply with any
notice issued under the provisions of this section, the certificate holder
shall be notified in writing that the certificate is, upon service of the
notice, immediately suspended, and that an opportunity for a hearing will be
provided pursuant to this section. Whenever alleged violations of this article
constitute an emergency health hazard, the director shall issue a written
notice to the certificate holder citing such conditions, specifying the
corrective action to be taken and specifying the time period within which such
action shall be taken, and if deemed necessary, such order may state that the
certificate is immediately suspended, and all operations as a food service
establishment or retail food store are to be immediately discontinued.
         c.   Any person to whom such an order is issued shall comply
immediately therewith but, on written application to the director, shall be
afforded a hearing as soon as possible, but in no event, later than two (2)
working days after issuance of the order.
         d.   The city attorney shall be notified of each food service
establishment or retail food store that has had its certificate to operate
suspended and shall enforce that ruling.
      2.   Reinstatement Of Suspended Certificate: Any person whose food
service establishment or retail food store certificate has been suspended by
the director may make an application for the purpose of reinstatement of the
certificate. Reinspection shall be made by the director or his representative
on the next working day following receipt of a written request which shall
include a statement signed by the certificate holder that, in his opinion,
conditions causing suspension of the certificate have been corrected. If the
former certificate holder is in compliance with the requirements of this
article, the certificate shall be reinstated.
   I.   Hearings: Any person affected by an order or notice issued by the
director or a designee in connection with the enforcement of any provision of
this article pertaining to food service establishments or retail food stores
may file in the office of the director a written petition for a hearing by the
director. The director or a designee shall hold a hearing at a time and place
designated by him within fifteen (15) days of the date on which the written
petition was filed. The petitioner shall be notified of the time and place of
the hearing not less than five (5) working days prior to the date on which the
hearing is to be held. If, as a result of the hearing, the director or a
designee finds that strict compliance with the order or notices would cause
undue hardship on the petitioner, and that the public health would be protected
by varying or withdrawing the order or notice and, as a condition for such
action, may, where he deems necessary, make requirements which are additional
to those prescribed in this article for the purpose of protecting the public
health. The director or a designee shall render a decision in writing within
ten (10) days after the date of the hearing and place a copy of the decision on
file in the office of the director as a matter of public record. (Ord. 225, 3-
25-1985)
ARTICLE E.  GARBAGE, RUBBISH, SOLID WASTE AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-1E-1: Accumulation Of Garbage And Rubbish Prohibited
4-1E-2: Removal Of Garbage, Rubbish, Solid Waste And Weeds Required
4-1E-3: Garbage Receptacles
4-1E-4: Burning Garbage And Rubbish
4-1E-5: Unlawful Deposits
4-1E-6: Exemptions From Provisions
4-1E-7: Tree Limb And Branch Pick Up Program
4-1E-1: ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PROHIBITED:
No person shall allow or cause the accumulation of garbage or rubbish except as
provided in this article, nor allow or cause any vehicles containing garbage or
rubbish to remain on or along any railroad, street, or highway in the city.
(Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1E-2: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, SOLID WASTE AND WEEDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Garbage And Rubbish: The owner, occupant, lessee or contract for deed
buyer of any premises shall remove or have removed from his premises any
garbage and rubbish at least once each week.
   B.   Brush, Trees, Stumps And Solid Waste: The owner, occupant, lessee or
contract for deed buyer of any premises shall remove or have removed from his
premises any brush, dead or dying trees, stumps, roots, or solid waste
material. The removal shall be performed within ten (10) days after receipt by
the owner, occupant, lessee, contract for deed buyer, or his agent of a public
health violation ticket; provided, that the removal of solid waste material
shall be performed within three (3) days after receipt of the ticket. (Ord.
225, 3-25-1985)
   C.   Weeds: The owner, occupant, lessee or contract for deed buyer of any
premises shall remove or have removed from his premises any rank growth of
weeds. The removal shall be performed within five (5) days after receipt of
notice. The notice shall also contain a statement that failure to remove the
rank growth of weeds within five (5) days may result in the city itself, under
the direction of the department of public health, correcting the violation, or
the filing of an ordinance violation that may result, upon conviction, in a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day the violation continues, or both. Service of
the notice shall be made by regular mail with one copy delivered to the city
attorney and one copy retained by the department of public health. (Ord. 225,
3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1E-3: GARBAGE RECEPTACLES:
   A.   Required; Specifications:
      1.   The owner or occupant of any single-family residence or multiple-
dwelling residence with less than four (4) dwelling units shall provide, or
cause to be provided, and shall maintain clean and in good repair, a receptacle
or receptacles that are:
         a.   Galvanized metal or plastic with a close fitting metal or plastic
cover.
         b.   Watertight.
         c.   A capacity of not less than five (5) nor more than thirty five
(35) gallons.
         d.   With suitable handles for carrying.
         e.   Sufficient to contain the accumulation of waste material for a
period of at least seven (7) days.
      2.   In all cases, it shall be the ultimate responsibility of the owner
to provide the proper receptacles for the premises.
   B.   Use Required: It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any
premises to dispose of any garbage and rubbish in receptacles described in this
article. The removal of any garbage or rubbish shall be accomplished in a
manner which does not create a nuisance or cause annoyance or discomfort to any
person.
   C.   Placement For Collection: All receptacles for the collection of garbage
and rubbish shall be placed on the owner's premises in an accessible place at
ground level. No receptacle shall be placed on public property or right of way
so as to impede or interfere with pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic. (Ord.
225, 3-25-1985)
   D.   Unlawful Use:
      1.   The removal of any garbage or rubbish from any receptacle for any
purpose while awaiting its collection is prohibited, unless the removal is by
the owner or occupant of the premises on which the receptacle belongs. (Ord.
225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   The tipping over of any receptacle provided for the placement of
garbage or rubbish, or the removal of any cover from a receptacle without
replacement in its proper position, is prohibited. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1E-4: BURNING GARBAGE AND RUBBISH 1 :
No person shall burn or cause to be burned any garbage or rubbish in the city.
(Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 3 of this title.
4-1E-5: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS 1 :
   A.   No person shall deposit, collect, or transport garbage or rubbish in
such a manner that it may be spread by natural elements, such as wind or rain,
or by animals onto any premises.
   B.   No person shall deposit garbage or rubbish on any public place. This
subsection shall not apply to goods or merchandise deposited on a public place
pursuant to a permit authorized by ordinance of the city if the goods or
merchandise are removed from the public place within two (2) hours after having
been deposited, or to articles deposited in the city sewage system through
lawful drains in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  7-1-1 of this code.
4-1E-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to apply to persons hired
or employed for the purpose of collecting garbage or rubbish and disposing
thereof; however, all receptacles shall be replaced after collection in an
upright position with the covers on them. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1E-7: TREE LIMB AND BRANCH PICK UP PROGRAM:
   A.   The city of Leland Grove shall provide for the pick up and removal of
tree limbs and branches from residences in the city for property located within
the city's geographic boundaries. The pick up will be conducted on the first
Monday of every month and shall begin in the city ward as is determined on a
rotating basis by need.
   B.   Tree limbs and branches which are eligible to be included in the city's
pick up program must consist of branches and limbs less than two inches (2") in
diameter and must be placed in a residential sized receptacle for garbage or
trash. All bushes must have the root ball removed and be in pieces smaller than
two feet (2') in diameter and six feet (6') in length. The owner of the subject
property must perform all work on the property and no material may be moved
from any other property into the city or from one property to another property
within the city.
   C.   The volume of limbs and branches picked up at any one time shall be
limited to one pile no more than six feet (6') long by six feet (6') wide by
six feet (6') tall. Any item of less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter must
be placed in a yard waste bag, with the appropriate sticker and disposed of by
a licensed waste hauler at the property owner's expense. The property owner may
request that additional limbs and branches be removed for the requisite fee, as
established from time to time by the city at the direction of the mayor,
subject to the city's ability and availability to remove any additional limbs
or branches.
   D.   The following items will not be eligible for the pick up program:
      1.   Leaves, grass clippings, weeds, and other yard waste.
      2.   Whole bushes, vines and hedge trimmings.
      3.   Compost material.
      4.   Roots.
      5.   Tree limbs larger than eight inches (8") in diameter.
      6.   Whole trees.
      7.   Any paper or plastic bag or other nonorganic matter.
   E.   The tree limbs and branches must be located on the city right of way
directly in front of the subject property, but shall not be located on the
pavement portion of any street or on any other city property. Any material
shall not be placed in the right of way earlier than the Saturday prior to the
scheduled pick up date. (Ord. 368, 2-22-2011)
ARTICLE F.  HOUSING STANDARDS
SECTION:
4-1F-1: Minimum Standards For Equipment And Facilities
4-1F-2: Minimum Standards For Light, Ventilation, Heat And Pest Control
4-1F-3: General Requirements For Safe And Sanitary Maintenance
4-1F-4: Minimum Space, Use And Location Requirements
4-1F-5: Responsibilities Of Owners And Occupants
4-1F-6: Dwellings Unfit For Human Habitation
4-1F-7: Enforcement
4-1F-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
All dwellings or dwelling units, or any portion thereof, that are used,
designed, or intended to be used for human habitation shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Water And Sewer Utilities:
      1.   All fixtures in such dwelling or dwelling unit required by the
provisions of subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section shall be properly
installed and connected to a public sewer.
      2.   If a water main is located in, over, or under the lot or land on
which a dwelling or dwelling unit is situated or such water main is located in
a street or alley abutting such lot or land, all fixtures in such dwelling or
dwelling unit required by the provisions of this section shall be properly
installed and connected to such water main.
   B.   Sanitary Facilities:
      1.   Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system
in compliance with this article.
      2.   Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall contain, within a room which
affords privacy to a person within the room, a flush water closet and a
lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system in compliance with this article.
      3.   Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall contain, within a room which
affords privacy to a person within the room, a bathtub or shower in good
working condition and properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      4.   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower required
under the provisions of subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section shall be
properly connected with hot and cold water lines.
   C.   Garbage And Rubbish Storage Facilities: Every dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be supplied with adequate garbage and rubbish storage facilities.
   D.   Exits:
      1.   Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means
of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the
laws of the state and this article.
      2.   Every dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units shall
provide at least two (2) means of egress leading to safe and open space at
ground level from each story above the first story.
   E.   Water Heating Facilities: Every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be
supplied with water heating facilities which are properly installed, are
maintained in safe and good working condition, are properly connected with the
hot water lines required under the provisions of this article and are capable
of heating water to such temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water
to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower
at a temperature of not less than one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit
(120°F).
   F.   Signage: Every residence or dwelling unit shall have the numerical
street number visible from a distance of twenty feet (20') and visible from the
street, in a size of not less than three inches (3") in height and in a color
contrasting to that of the surface on which they are placed on the residence or
dwelling unit. (Ord. 382, 2-26-2013)
4-1F-2: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, VENTILATION, HEAT AND PEST CONTROL:
All dwellings or dwelling units, or any portion thereof, that are used, or
designed or intended to be used, for human habitation shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Light And Ventilation:
      1.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area, measured
between stops, for every habitable room shall be ten percent (10%) of the floor
area of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window
of any such room and such light obstructing structures are located less than
three feet (3') from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling
of the room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least
fifteen percent (15%) of the total floor area of such room.
      2.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate
the room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be
equal to at least forty five percent (45%) of the minimum window area size or
minimum skylight type window size as required in subsection A1 of this section,
except where there is supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation
and approved by an environmental health inspector.
      3.   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in subsections
A1 and A2 of this section; except, that no window or skylight shall be required
in adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with
a mechanical ventilation system capable of exhausting twenty five (25) cubic
feet of air per minute which is kept in operating condition and approved by an
environmental health inspector.
      4.   Where there is an electric power line available in a street, alley,
or utility easement abutting the lot or land on which a dwelling is situated,
or such line is available over or under such lot or land, every habitable room
of such dwelling shall contain at least two (2) convenience outlets, or one
such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling type electric light fixture;
and every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room,
public hall, and stairway shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall
type electric light fixture. Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly
installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be
connected to the source of electric power in conformance with this article.
      5.   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing
four (4) or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every
public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and
containing not more than three (3) dwelling units may be supplied with
conveniently located light switches controlling an adequate lighting system
which may be turned on when needed instead of full time lighting.
   B.   Heat: Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are
properly installed, maintained in a safe and good working condition, and
capable of safely and adequately heating every habitable room, bathroom, and
toilet compartment in every dwelling to a temperature of at least sixty eight
degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) every day other than during the period from May 15
through October 14, inclusive, in each year. The temperature shall be read at a
height of three feet (3') above floor level at any point in the room more than
two feet (2') from the inside of any exterior wall.
   C.   Insect And Rodent Control 1 :
      1.   From May 1 to November 1, every door opening directly from a
dwelling unit to outdoor space shall be supplied with screens and a self-
closing device, and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space
used or intended to be used for ventilation shall likewise be supplied with
screens as a protection against mosquitoes, flies, and other insects.
      2.   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See also article H of this chapter.
4-1F-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE:
All dwellings or dwelling units, or any portion thereof, that are used, or
designed or intended to be used, for human habitation shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodentproof; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   B.   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight, and rodentproof and shall be kept in sound working
condition and good repair.
   C.   Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   D.   Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being opened from
the inside and without the use of a key. Hasp locks are prohibited.
   E.   Every exterior door, door hinge, and door latch shall be in good
condition and shall fit reasonably well within its frame when closed.
   F.   In every dwelling or multiple dwelling, every water line, plumbing
fixture, drain, and every stack, waste and sewer line shall be so installed and
maintained as to function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks,
and defects.
   G.   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
and so as to permit such floor to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   H.   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this section shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working
condition.
   I.   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment, or utility, which is required under this section, to be removed from
or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling let or occupied by
him, except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual
repairs or alterations are in process.
   J.   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy. (Ord. 225, 3-
25-1985)
4-1F-4: MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
All dwellings or dwelling units, or any portion thereof, that are used, or
designed or intended to be used, for human habitation shall meet the following
requirements:
   A.   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least one hundred fifty (150)
square feet of floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least one
hundred (100) additional square feet of floor space for every additional
occupant thereof, the floor space to be calculated on the basis of total
habitable room area.
   B.   In every dwelling unit of two (2) or more rooms, every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least seventy (70)
square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by
more than one occupant shall contain at least fifty (50) square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
   C.   No dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units shall have such
room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet compartment can be
had only by going through another dwelling unit, nor shall room arrangements be
such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
dwelling unit.
   D.   At least one-half (1/2) of the floor area of every habitable room shall
have a ceiling height of at least seven feet (7'), and the floor area of that
part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall not
be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total floor area of
the room for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy
thereof.
   E.   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit
unless:
      1.   The floor and walls are protected against leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are protected against dampness;
      2.   The total window area in each room is equal to the minimum window
area sizes as required in this article;
      3.   Such required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining such window area;
      4.   The total openable window area in each room is equal to the minimum
as required under this article; and
      5.   All window safety bar obstructions are prohibited and must be
removed unless designed and constructed so as to break away from the inside or
have latches that allow them to be opened from the inside.
   F.   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
(Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1F-5: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Every owner of a dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units
shall be responsible for maintaining, in a clean and sanitary condition, the
shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises.
   B.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep, in a clean
and sanitary condition, that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
which he occupies and controls.
   C.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
garbage and rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the
containers required by this article.
   D.   The owner or occupant of any single-family residence or multiple-
dwelling residence with less than four (4) dwelling units shall provide, or
cause to be provided, and shall maintain clean and in good repair, a receptacle
or receptacles as provided this article.
   E.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens whenever the same is required under the provisions of this
article or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant hereto, except where the
owner has agreed to supply such service. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
   F.   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents, or other pests
therein or on the premises, and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
pestproof or reasonably pestproof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two (2) or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall
be the responsibility of the owner. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
   G.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof. (Ord. 225,
3-25-1985)
4-1F-6: DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION:
The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the determination and placarding of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Determination Of Unfit Dwellings: Any dwelling or dwelling unit which
shall be found to have any of the following defects shall be declared as unfit
for human habitation and shall be so designated and placarded by the
environmental health inspector:
      1.   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or of the public.
      2.   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public.
      3.   One which, because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   B.   Premises Placarded And Vacated: Any dwelling or dwelling unit
determined as unfit for human habitation, and so designated and placarded by
the environmental health inspector, shall be vacated within a reasonable time
as ordered by the environmental health inspector.
   C.   Approval For Use Of Placarded Premises: No dwelling or dwelling unit
which has been determined and placarded as unfit for human habitation shall
again be used for human habitation until written approval is secured from, and
such placard is removed by, the environmental health inspector. The
environmental health inspector shall remove such placard only when the defects
on which the determination and placarding action were based have been
eliminated and after the dwelling or dwelling unit has been inspected and been
found to comply in all respects with the requirements of this article.
   D.   Tampering With Placard Prohibited: No person shall deface or remove the
placard from any dwelling or dwelling unit which has been determined as unfit
for human habitation and placarded as such, except as provided in subsection C
of this section. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1F-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the director or a designee has determined
that any premises fails to meet the requirements set forth in this article or
in applicable rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto, he shall issue
a notice setting forth the alleged failures and advising the owner or occupant
that such failures must be corrected. This notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Set forth the alleged violations of any applicable ordinance, rule,
or regulation;
      3.   Describe the dwelling or dwelling unit where the violations are
alleged to exist;
      4.   Specify a reasonable time limit for the correction of any violation
alleged; and
      5.   Be served on the owner or occupant of the dwelling or dwelling unit
personally, or by certified mail. If one or more persons to whom such notice is
addressed cannot be found after diligent effort to do so, service may be made
on such persons by posting the notice in or about the dwelling unit described
in the notice.
   B.   Inspections: At the end of the period of time allowed for the
correction of any violation alleged, an environmental health inspector shall
inspect the dwelling or dwelling unit described in the notice.
   C.   Remedies: If, on inspection, the violations are determined not to have
been corrected, legal proceedings may be initiated for the immediate correction
of the alleged violations, or other appropriate action may be taken. (Ord. 225,
3-25-1985)
ARTICLE G.  LEAD AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
4-1G-1: Use Restricted
4-1G-2: Labeling Requirements
4-1G-3: Responsibility Of Public Health Officials
4-1G-4: Responsibility Of Owner
4-1G-5: Prohibited Eviction Of Occupants
4-1G-6: Reporting Requirements
4-1G-1: USE RESTRICTED:
No person shall use or apply lead bearing substances or toxic heavy metal based
coatings in or on any surface of any dwelling or dwelling unit. (Ord. 225, 3-
25-1985)
4-1G-2: LABELING REQUIREMENTS:
Containers in which lead bearing substances or toxic heavy metal based coatings
are stored, sold, transferred, or added for wholesale or retail purposes shall
be labeled in conformance with state and federal laws, regulations and
recommended standards set forth in the federal hazardous substance labeling
act, as enacted and amended. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1G-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICIALS:
   A.   The director or his designee may inspect surfaces of dwellings or
dwelling units for the purpose of determining the presence of lead bearing
substances, and the director or his designee may cause testing to be performed
on the surfaces to determine whether or not they are in sound condition.
   B.   If, on inspection by the director or his designee, there is found to be
the presence of flaking, peeling, or loose paint, plaster, or any other
structural material on a surface in or around any dwelling or dwelling unit,
the director or his designee is empowered to take samples and to analyze or
have the samples analyzed to determine whether or not the material contains
substances prohibited by this article. In lieu of taking samples, the surface
may be tested by such method as is approved by the director or a designee.
   C.   In those cases where analysis reveals the presence of any lead bearing
substance, the director or his designee shall notify the owner in writing of
the conditions and may order the owner to remove all articles containing any
lead bearing substance or to cover such substances with an acceptable covering.
All coverings shall be securely attached to a smooth, sound surface and shall
be in accordance with existing building codes. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1G-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER:
The owner shall be required to make the necessary repairs to eliminate the lead
hazard within ten (10) days from the date of receipt of the notice sent by the
director or his designee pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. It shall
be a violation of this section if the owner fails to make such necessary
repairs in a specified time. The director or his designee may extend the time
required to perform the necessary repairs to eliminate the lead hazard for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days if the owners demonstrate a good faith
effort to make these repairs and some temporary repairs have been made to
alleviate any imminent danger caused by the lead hazard. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
4-1G-5: PROHIBITED EVICTION OF OCCUPANTS:
No owner found to be in violation of any provision contained in this article
shall evict or cause to be evicted or terminate the tenancy of a renter or
lessee for the purpose of avoiding corrective maintenance orders by the
director, court, or other appropriate authority. Occupants shall be permitted
to continue their occupancy in accordance with their lease or rental agreement
executed prior to corrective maintenance orders. Eviction or termination of
tenancy solely as retaliation for corrective maintenance shall be prohibited.
Eviction of tenants with dependent children and subsequent rental or leasing to
adult occupants only shall not constitute compliance with this article. (Ord.
225, 3-25-1985)
4-1G-6: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
Every physician, other diagnosing person, or director of a laboratory who has
evidence of undue lead absorption in any person shall make a report thereof to
the director within three (3) days of the finding. The report shall include the
circumstances of the case and the name and address of the person involved.
(Ord. 225, 3-25-1985)
ARTICLE H.  PEST CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1H-1: Building To Be Pestproofed
4-1H-2: Notice Requirements
4-1H-3: Pestproofed Buildings
4-1H-4: Future Construction
4-1H-5: Specific Pest Control Measures
4-1H-1: BUILDING TO BE PESTPROOFED:
It is provided and required that all buildings within the jurisdiction of the
public health department shall be pestproofed and freed of pests when directed
by the director of public health or his designee or as required in this
article. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1H-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice To Owner: Whenever the director or his designee notifies the
owner of any building in writing that there is evidence of the need for
pestproofing of the building, such owner shall take immediate measures for
pestproofing the building.
   B.   Notice To Occupant: Whenever the director or his designee notifies the
occupant of a building in writing that there is evidence of pest infestation of
the building or on the premises, such occupant shall immediately institute pest
eradication measures and shall continuously maintain such measures in a
satisfactory manner until the building or premises is pest free or the director
or his designee advises that there is no evidence of pest infestation. (Ord.
225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1H-3: PESTPROOFED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Maintenance Requirements: The owners of all pestproofed buildings are
required to maintain the premises in a pestproof condition and to repair all
openings or leaks that may occur in the pestproofing.
   B.   Inspections: An environmental health inspector shall make periodic
inspections of all pestproofed buildings to determine evidence of pest
infestation and the existence of new breaks or leaks in their pestproofing.
When any evidence is found indicating the presence of pests or openings through
which pests may again enter buildings, the environmental health inspector shall
serve the owners or occupants, or both, with notices of orders to abate the
conditions found.
   C.   Removal Of Pestproofing Prohibited: No occupant, owner, contractor,
utility company, plumber, repair person, or any other person shall remove the
pestproofing from any building for any purpose and fail to restore the same in
satisfactory condition or to make any new openings that are not closed or
sealed against the entrance of pests. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1H-4: FUTURE CONSTRUCTION:
No person shall construct, repair, or remodel any building, unless such
construction, repair, or remodeling shall render the building pestproof,
provided that only such repairs or remodeling as affect the pestproof condition
of any such building shall be considered as subject to the provisions of this
article. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
4-1H-5: SPECIFIC PEST CONTROL MEASURES:
   A.   Food Storage: All human or animal food or feed shall be stored in pest
free and pestproof containers, compartments, or rooms.
   B.   Garbage And Rubbish Disposal: All waste material on which pests may
feed and all small dead animals shall be placed and stored in covered metal
containers of a type prescribed by this chapter until collected.
   C.   Firewood, Lumber, Boxes And Barrels: No person shall place, leave,
dump, or permit to accumulate on any private or public premises, improved or
vacant, or on any open land, street, or alley, any firewood, lumber, boxes,
barrels, bottles, cans, containers, or similar materials unless the same shall
be placed on open racks that are elevated not less than eighteen inches (18")
above the ground, and evenly piled or stacked so that these materials will not
afford harborage for pests. (Ord. 225, 3-25-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Abandonment Prohibited; Removal Authorized
4-2-3: Duty To Notify Police Of Abandoned, Unclaimed Vehicle
4-2-4: Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicle On Street
4-2-5: Record Of Towed Vehicles
4-2-6: Owner Unknown
4-2-7: Reclamation Of Vehicle
4-2-8: Sale And Disposal Of Vehicle
4-2-9: Disposition Of Revenue
4-2-10: Nonliability Of Police And Towing Service
4-2-11: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition, or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years of
age or a bona fide replica thereof and which is driven on the highways only
going to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for
servicing or demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20)
years old which is not used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the
purpose of exhibition of demonstration.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley, or public way within the city. (Ord. 112, 12-28-
1970; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-2: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in the city is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth herein.
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on
private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the city is unlawful, except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or
upon the order of the city police department after a waiting period of seven
(7) days or more has expired. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970)
4-2-3: DUTY TO NOTIFY POLICE OF ABANDONED, UNCLAIMED VEHICLE:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this state not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the city police
department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the city. Upon
receipt of such notification, the police department shall authorize a towing
service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep
the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of the tow until the
vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 112, 12-28-1970)
4-2-4: ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLE ON STREET:
   A.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
city ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the city police department.
   B.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the city police department.
   C.   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the city police department, the owner of the vehicle
will be responsible for all towing costs. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970)
4-2-5: RECORD OF TOWED VEHICLES:
When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
police department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number and registration sticker year and number
displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of
tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of
the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-6: OWNER UNKNOWN:
   A.   When the police department does not know the identity of the registered
owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state of Illinois to be searched by a
directed communication to the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
   B.   The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
Illinois state police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois state police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois state police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the national crime information center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois state police. The information determined from these
record searches will be used by the police department in sending a notification
by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder or legally entitled
person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and
setting forth public sale information.
   C.   When the registered owner, lien holder or other person legally entitled
to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of this state or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the police department shall notify the Illinois
state police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the Illinois state police will be immediately forwarded to the police
department for notification of the owner. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970; amd. 2008
Code)
4-2-7: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner, lien holder or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police
department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this
section until all towing and storage charges have been paid. (Ord. 112, 12-28-
1970; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-8: SALE AND DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Vehicles Seven Years Of Age Or Newer:
      1.   Known Owner: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor
vehicle or other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by
the registered owner, lien holder or other legally entitled person for a period
of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the police
department shall cause it to be sold at public sale to the highest bidder.
Notice of time and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for
at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has
been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the police department
shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified
mail to the registered owner or other person known by the police department or
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle. In
those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the police department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
      2.   Unknown Owner: When the identity of the registered owner, lien
holder or other legally entitled persons of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed
vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or
disposed of in the manner authorized by this chapter without notice to any
person whose identity cannot be determined.
   B.   Vehicles Older Than Seven Years: When an abandoned vehicle of more than
seven (7) years of age is impounded as specified by this chapter, or when any
such vehicle is towed at the request or with the consent of the owner or
operator and is subsequently abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage
for a minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining the identity of
the registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled persons and
contacting the registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled persons
by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition and an examination of the state police stolen vehicle files for
theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten (10) day period,
without the benefit of disposition information being received from the
registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled persons, the vehicle
shall be disposed of as junk or salvage. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Hazardous Dilapidated Vehicles: Any hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle
impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, whether impounded at a
public facility or on the property of private towing service, shall be kept in
custody for a period of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining the
identity of the registered owner or lien holder and contacting such owner or
lien holder, if known, by regular U.S. mail. At the expiration of the ten (10)
day period, without benefit of disposition information being received from the
registered owner or lien holder, the police department will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk. (2008 Code)
   D.   Records Kept: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of
the police department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally
entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be
maintained by the police department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
   E.   Antique Vehicles Exempt: A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as
an antique vehicle is excluded from this section. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970)
4-2-9: DISPOSITION OF REVENUE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the city is authorized to
be towed away by the police and disposed of as set forth in this chapter, the
proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of towing,
storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the city treasury. (Ord.
112, 12-28-1970)
4-2-10: NONLIABILITY OF POLICE AND TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer or towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or legal representative, or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the
vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 112, 12-28-1970)
4-2-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder
as such. (Ord. 112, 12-28-1970; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BURNING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Trash, Rubbish And Garbage
4-3-2: Landscape Waste
4-3-3: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-1E-4 of this title.
4-3-1: TRASH, RUBBISH AND GARBAGE:
   A.   Burning of yard waste, garbage, construction materials, etc. is
prohibited. Fire pits are considered recreational fires. They should be a
sufficient distance from the structure or combustible materials to protect from
wind or other source reaching the structure. For portable outdoor fireplaces,
the standards shall also apply.
   B.   Both types of open burning (for all properties) must meet the several
conditions that follow:
      1.   Must use only dry wood or charcoal fuel;
      2.   Must be kept to a manageable size (three foot (3') diameter or less/
two foot (2') height or less);
      3.   Must have extinguishing capability readily available (garden hose/
fire extinguisher)
      4.   Must be constantly attended until completely extinguished;
      5.   Must be kept between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.;
      6.   Burning is not allowed during high winds (in excess of twenty (20)
mph);
      7.   Burning is not allowed during times of high fire;
      8.   There is no imminent health hazard to persons in the area. (Ord.
257, 3-26-1990; Ord. 443, 9-22-2020)
4-3-2: LANDSCAPE WASTE:
The burning of "landscape waste", as that term is defined in section 3.270 of
the Illinois environmental protection act 1 , is prohibited. (Ord. 257, 3-26-
1990; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 415 ILCS 5/3.270.
4-3-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The continued burning of any item prohibited in this
chapter shall constitute and be punishable as a separate offense. (Ord. 257, 3-
26-1990; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CURBSIDE RECYCLING PROGRAM
SECTION:
4-4-1: Program Created
4-4-2: Supervision
4-4-3: Definition
4-4-4: Use Of Bins Or Bags
4-4-5: Pick Up Of Recyclables
4-4-6: Voluntary Participation In Program
4-4-7: Violations; Penalties
4-4-1: PROGRAM CREATED:
A curbside recycling program is hereby created in the city. The program shall
begin on or after January 1, 1993. The program shall allow for the pick up of
recyclable materials by one or more waste haulers. (Ord. 283, 10-18-1993)
4-4-2: SUPERVISION:
The curbside recycling program shall be supervised by the individual appointed
by the mayor. That person shall be the city recycling coordinator and is
empowered to make rules, consistent with this chapter, for the orderly, safe
and sanitary operation of the program. Such rules and any amendments shall be
published in pamphlet form from time to time. (Ord. 283, 10-18-1993; amd. 2008
Code)
4-4-3: DEFINITION:
"Recyclable materials" include, but are not limited to, old newspaper, soft
drink containers made from high density polyethylene (HDPE), milk jugs made
from polyethylene terephthalate (PETE), bimetal food and beverage cans,
aluminum, clear glass, brown glass and green glass. (Ord. 283, 10-18-1993)
4-4-4: USE OF BINS OR BAGS:
All recyclable materials shall be placed in bins or kraft paper bags. (Ord.
283, 10-18-1993)
4-4-5: PICK UP OF RECYCLABLES:
All recyclable materials shall be picked up at curbside or, if a resident has
paid the waste hauler for special service, at another location on the
resident's premises. (Ord. 283, 10-18-1993)
4-4-6: VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM:
Participation by residents shall be promoted by free distribution of one
recycling bin to each residence. However, participation by residents shall be
voluntary, not mandatory. (Ord. 283, 10-18-1993)
4-4-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to set out recyclable materials
for collection more than twenty four (24) hours before the expected time of
collection.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the resident or an
employee of a waste hauler, to remove recyclable materials from that resident's
recycling bin or other recycling container. (Ord. 283, 10-18-1993)
   B.   Penalties: A first offense shall be punished only by issuance of a
written warning. Any second or subsequent violation of subsection A1 or A2 of
this section shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
283, 10-18-1993; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TREE PRESERVATION
SECTION:
4-5-1: Title
4-5-2: Purpose And Intent
4-5-3: Definitions
4-5-4: Trimming And Removal Of Protected Trees
4-5-5: Public Nuisance Trees
4-5-6: Responsibility Of Owners And Occupants
4-5-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-5-8: Arborist Registration
4-5-9: Administration And Enforcement Officials
4-5-10: Notice Of Provisions
4-5-11: Appeals
4-5-12: Unauthorized Entry Onto Private Property
4-5-13: Penalty
4-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the LELAND GROVE TREE PRESERVATION ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The city council finds that the preservation of existing trees and the
promotion of new planting is a public purpose that protects the public health,
safety, and welfare and the environment and aesthetics of the city and its
citizens.
   B.   The urban forest serves a wide variety of functions that promote the
purposes of this chapter, as follows:
      1.   Ensuring that trimming and removal of trees is carried out in a
responsible and safe manner.
      2.   Enhancing visual and aesthetic qualities of the city.
      3.   Creating a civic identity for the citizens of the city of Leland
Grove, a city named for its trees.
   C.   It is the intention of the city council that this chapter be enforced
so as to promote its purposes while simultaneously recognizing the legitimate
interests of owners of private property. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
ARBORIST: A person who, for profit:
   A.   Diagnoses the condition of trees and recommends or supervises their
treatment; or
   B.   In any manner treats trees by feeding, fertilizing, pruning, trimming,
removing, bracing, treating cavities, or other methods.
CITY: The city of Leland Grove, Illinois.
OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION LINES: The lines of a public utility that are suspended
aboveground and that have a sag or sway within ten feet (10') of the air space
occupied by a tree.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or
other legal entity.
PROTECTED TREE: A tree whose trunk enters the ground within a public easement
area or road right of way. A volunteer seedling less than two feet (2') tall is
not a protected tree.
PUBLIC EASEMENT AREA: A road right of way or other easement upon which the
public has a right of passage.
PUBLIC NUISANCE TREE: A tree determined by the city council to be a public
nuisance.
ROAD RIGHT OF WAY: The entire area, whether or not owned by the city, that is
dedicated to the purpose of public roads and upon which the city maintains a
roadway.
SAG AND SWAY: The distance determined by the city administrator that overhead
public utility transmission lines will move vertically and horizontally at
midspan due to normal and customary weather conditions. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-4: TRIMMING AND REMOVAL OF PROTECTED TREES:
   A.   Approval Required: A protected tree may be trimmed or removed only with
the approval of and within the limits set by the city administrator. If the
trimming or removal: 1) does not impair the public health, safety, welfare, or
environment; 2) does not unreasonably impair the value of adjoining property;
3) is a reasonable solution to the stated necessity for the trimming or
removal; and 4) is consistent with the overall purposes of this chapter, then
the city administrator shall grant approval, subject to reasonable limitations
and requirements set by the city administrator.
   B.   Notice To Adjacent Property Owners: After having received the approval
of the city administrator, the person with approval to trim or remove a
protected tree must give written notice to the owner or occupant of each parcel
of property located in whole or in part within twenty feet (20') of the trunk
of the tree to be trimmed or removed. The notice must indicate whether the tree
is to be trimmed or removed, and must indicate the time frame in which the
trimming or removal will begin, which must be at least seven (7) calendar days
after the notice has been delivered to the last of each of those entitled to
notice.
   C.   Trimming Standards And Guidelines: Unless the city administrator, with
the approval of the city council, provides otherwise, all trimming of protected
trees shall be done based on the standards and guidelines set forth in the most
current edition of: 1) "Pruning Trees Near Electric Utility Lines" by Dr. Alex
Shigo; 2) the National Arborist Association in "Pruning Standards For Shade
Trees"; and 3) "American National Standards For Tree Care Operations - Tree,
Shrub And Other Woody Plant Maintenance - Standard Practices", published by the
American National Standards Institute, Inc.
   D.   Electric Line Clearance Standards:
      1.   No person may trim a tree within ten feet (10') of an overhead
transmission line unless that person has a utility line arborist certification
in accordance with OHSA 1910269.
      2.   Protected trees may need to be trimmed to clearances in excess of
accepted standards for aesthetic or safety reasons. In that case, the city
administrator may issue a permit allowing a deviation from those clearance
standards to the extent and in the manner set forth in the permit. No fee shall
be charged for that permit. No tree trimming shall be done by any person, as
set forth in this subsection D2, except as authorized by the city
administrator.
      3.   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as preventing any
person from trimming or removing a tree or portion of a tree for the purpose of
restoring electric power that has been interrupted by reason of that tree or
portion of it having come into contact with an overhead transmission line.
   E.   Replacement Of Removed Trees: The standards and guidelines for trimming
and removal are those set forth in subsection C of this section.
      1.   If a protected tree is removed, either with or without the approval
of the city administrator, then the person who removed the tree, at his or her
cost, must promptly replace it with a tree or shrub approved by the city
administrator. For good cause shown, the city council may waive the requirement
of replacing the tree.
      2.   If, without the approval of the city administrator, a protected tree
is removed or is significantly damaged, whether by excessive trimming or
otherwise, then the person who removed or damaged the tree, at his or her cost,
must promptly replace the tree as provided in subsection E1 of this section
and, in addition, must pay a penalty to the city as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-5: PUBLIC NUISANCE TREES:
   A.   The city council may specify trees that are considered to be a public
nuisance.
      1.   Trees designated to be a public nuisance may not be planted either
on public right of way or on private property.
      2.   Trees designated to be a public nuisance are not protected trees as
defined in this chapter and may be removed from the public right of way by the
owner(s) of adjacent property(ies) if said owner(s) is willing to bear the cost
of removal.
      3.   A no cost permit must be obtained from the city administrator before
a nuisance tree is removed from any city right of way. As part of the permit
process, the city administrator will discuss with the applicant what trees are
approved for replacement and other requirements such as minimum height of the
replacement. The kind of replacement tree and any such requirements shall be
listed on the permit. A waiver for cause may be requested from and may be
granted by the city administrator.
   B.   Trees declared to be a public nuisance:
      1.   Sweet gum. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   The owner of the property where a tree is located, and the occupant of
that property if it is not owner occupied, must keep the tree trimmed: 1) so as
not to impede the passage of persons or vehicles along public easement areas;
2) so as not to obstruct the reflection of streetlights; 3) so as not to hide
from view or obstruct all or any part of a traffic control device or street
identification sign; and 4) so as not to threaten the safety of persons or
property.
   B.   If an owner or occupant is in violation of subsection A of this
section, it is the duty of the city administrator to notify that owner or
occupant in writing that, within five (5) calendar days after delivery of the
notice, the owner or occupant must trim the tree. The notice requirement under
subsection
4-5-4B of this chapter does not apply to this situation. If the owner or
occupant is notified and neglects or refuses to comply with this section, then
the owner or occupant is in violation of this chapter, and the city
administrator may cause the tree to be trimmed at the cost to that owner or
occupant. If a violation of subsection A of this section causes an imminent
danger to persons or property, then the city administrator may cause the
violation to be corrected and may charge the cost to the owner or occupant.
Costs charged to the owner or occupant are a lien on the premises. The lien may
be enforced as provided by law. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Enumeration Of Prohibited Acts And Conditions: Each of the following is
a violation of this chapter:
      1.   To plant or cause to be planted a tree that is on the list of
prohibited trees established and modified from time to time by the city
administrator if that tree, if planted, would be a protected tree.
      2.   To plant or cause to be planted a tree that has been declared a
public nuisance by the city council, whether planted on a public right of way
or on private property.
      3.   To plant or cause to be planted any tree in a public easement area
unless approved in writing by the city administrator. In granting or denying
approval, the city administrator shall take into consideration the distance
from the roadway, the expected height and overhang of the tree at maturity, and
any potential interference with preexisting overhead transmission lines.
      4.   To deposit, store, or maintain any stone, brick, sand, concrete, or
other material that may reasonably be expected to impede the free passage of
water, air, or fertilizer to the roots of any protected tree.
      5.   To cause or allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance that
reasonably may be expected to be toxic or otherwise harmful to trees to be
located where that substance reasonably may be expected to affect a protected
tree.
      6.   To attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any protected tree.
      7.   To attach any line, wire, or rope to any protected tree without the
permission of the city administrator. Any person, including a public utility,
that maintains poles, lines, wires, or ropes must, absent a specific and
contrary provision in a franchise or other agreement with the city: a) keep
those poles, lines, wires, or ropes free from and as far away as possible from
protected trees; and b) keep protected trees near any pole, line, wire, or rope
properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the city administrator, so that
no injury will be done either to the poles, lines, wires, or ropes or to the
trees.
      8.   For any person maintaining a gas pipe to fail to keep that pipe free
from leaks so that no injury is done to any protected tree.
      9.   For any person to make an excavation and fail to take proper care to
avoid injury to the roots of any protected tree. Whenever possible, tunneling
must be used instead of trenching.
   B.   Notice Of Violations; City Action; Costs: The city administrator may
order any person who violates any provision of this section to correct the
violation by giving written notice to that person. If that person fails to
correct the violation within a reasonable time after the notice, the City
Administrator may correct the violation, and that person shall be charged with
the expenses of correcting the violation. Those expenses may be collected by
the City through any available legal means, including an action commenced in
the Circuit Court. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-8: ARBORIST REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Required; Term; No Fee: Each arborist must register with
the City Administrator before doing business within the City. A registration is
valid for one (1) year from the date of issuance. No fee is required for the
registration.
   B.   Exemption From Registration: Any person acting within the scope of his
or her employment with a public utility or with the City is exempt from
registration.
   C.   Violations; Penalty: A person who violates this section is subject to
the penalty under section
4-5-13 of this chapter for each violation. A violation with respect to any
single tree constitutes a separate violation. For example, an arborist who
trims two (2) trees without having registered commits two (2) separate
violations. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   In administering this chapter, the City Administrator may consult with
any person who, by education, training, and experience, has significant
expertise in the respective trades.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in the Intergovernmental Agreement with
Sangamon County, the City Police Department, and the City Administrator each
have the authority to enforce this chapter. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
4-5-10: NOTICE OF PROVISIONS:
The City Administrator shall, from time to time, take reasonable steps to
ensure that all of the citizens and property owners of the City and all
registered arborists are informed as to the provisions of this chapter and any
lists maintained by the City Administrator pursuant to this chapter. When a
person applies for a building and zoning permit or for registration as an
arborist, the City Administrator must provide this chapter and any lists to the
applicant. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
4-5-11: APPEALS:
A petitioner who is aggrieved by any decision of the City Administrator under
this chapter may appeal that decision to the City Council by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Clerk no later than thirty (30) days after the person is
notified of the decision. The Mayor shall set a time for hearing the appeal,
which may be heard at either a regular or special meeting of the City Council.
Due and reasonable notice of the hearing shall be given to the person making
the appeal and, as appropriate, to nearby property owners. The person making
the appeal, who may be represented by an attorney, and the City Administrator
shall each be given the opportunity to present testimony and other evidence to
the City Council. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-12: UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Except for officers, employees, and agents of the City, nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to authorize any person to enter upon private property,
including, without limitation: a) any utility easement area; or b) any portion
of a road right-of- way that is clearly not intended to be open to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic. Nothing in this chapter, however, is intended to prohibit
any person from entering onto private property if that person has an
independent right to do so. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
4-5-13: PENALTY:
In addition to all other penalties or assessments under this chapter or
otherwise provided by law, a person who violates any provision of this chapter
is subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. The City Administrator shall assess the
penalty after taking the nature and relevant circumstances of the violation
into consideration. (Ord. 378, 5-22-2012)
CHAPTER 6
SEPTIC TANKS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Septic Tanks For Dwellings Prohibited
4-6-1: SEPTIC TANKS FOR DWELLINGS PROHIBITED:
No dwelling structure shall hereafter be constructed or remodeled in the city
unless provision is made to construct the sewer drain from the property to a
sanitary sewer maintained by the Springfield sanitary district. It shall be
illegal to use a septic tank or private sewage treatment system in the city to
dispose of sewage from any dwelling structure hereafter constructed or
remodeled in the city. (Ord. 210, 3-25-1985)
CHAPTER 7
VACANT PROPERTY REGISTRATION AND CARE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Registration
4-7-3: Maintenance And Upkeep
4-7-4: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
VACANT PROPERTY: A residential property in which no one is residing on a
permanent basis. Visitation on a sporadic basis to the property by an owner or
their designee does not qualify as residence within the property. (Ord. 422, 2-
27-2018)
4-7-2: REGISTRATION:
At the conclusion of thirty (30) days with no resident in the property, it is
required of all owners of property to register the fact that the property is
vacant. Such registration shall be on forms prepared and maintained at the
offices of the City. (Ord. 422, 2-27-2018)
4-7-3: MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP:
Owners of property which are vacant in addition to registration with the City,
must maintain the property in a safe manner. All entrances or windows must be
locked or permanently affixed to prohibit access by unauthorized individuals.
Repairs necessary to maintain the safety of the home must be made within a
timely manner. Vegetation and other plant material must be periodically cut and
removed in a manner consistent with a residential neighborhood in the City of
Leland Grove. (Ord. 422, 2-27-2018)
4-7-4: PENALTY:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be considered a Class C
violation in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 422, 2-27-2018)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definition
5-1-2: Running At Large Prohibited
5-1-3: Nuisance Dogs And Cats
5-1-4: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-1-5: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITION:
The term "animal control officer", as used in this chapter, includes a Sangamon
County animal control officer whose services are obtained through an
intergovernmental contract. (Ord. 297, 4-25-1995)
5-1-2: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No dog or cat shall be permitted by the owner or keeper thereof to run at large
within the city. (Ord. 297, 4-25-1995)
5-1-3: NUISANCE DOGS AND CATS 1 :
Any dog or cat which may in any manner disturb the peace and quiet of any
person or neighborhood, or shall destroy or in any manner injure any person,
animal, plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or
keeper, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such dog or cat shall
be taken up and impounded. (Ord. 297, 4-25-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 4-1B-4 of this code for feces accumulation prohibitions.
5-1-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Impoundment Authorized: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer to catch, take up, and impound at the county animal shelter any dog or
cat found running at large in the city contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: If ownership of the dog or cat can be
established through reasonable effort, the owner or keeper of such dog or cat
shall be given notice by mail of such impounding.
   C.   Use Of County Animal Shelter: Any dog or cat taken up or caught by the
animal control officer shall be impounded at the county animal shelter, and
shall be held at the county animal shelter pursuant to the regulations
established by the county.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Dog Or Cat: Any owner or keeper desiring to
redeem an impounded dog or cat which was caught and impounded by the animal
control officer shall first pay a fee of five dollars ($5.00) to the city clerk
or the city police department and obtain a receipt for such payment, which
shall be presented to the officials at the county animal shelter. The owner or
keeper may then redeem the impounded dog or cat by paying such other charges as
may be imposed by the county animal shelter as provided by law.
   E.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Dogs And Cats: Any dog or cat not redeemed by
its owner or keeper shall be disposed of as provided by regulations established
by the county. (Ord. 297, 4-25-1995)
5-1-5: PENALTY:
In addition to impoundment of a dog or cat, any owner or keeper of a dog or cat
who violates the provisions of this chapter by allowing a dog or cat to run at
large or by allowing such animal to behave as a public nuisance may be
prosecuted. Upon conviction, each offense shall be punished by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that any violation of this chapter shall occur or
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 297, 4-25-1995; amd. 2008
Code)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Fire Hazards; Storage Of Certain Materials Prohibited
5-2-2: Fireworks
5-2-1: FIRE HAZARDS; STORAGE OF CERTAIN MATERIALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Materials: It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any
person to store in any building in the city, other than a one- or two-family
dwelling house occupied by an owner or tenant, any of the following materials
or items:
      1.   Ten (10) or more mattresses.
      2.   Rugs and carpeting material in excess of the quantity required to
carpet the floors in a one- or two-family dwelling house.
      3.   Welding gases, paint, oil, and other petroleum products in excess of
five (5) gallons.
      4.   Furniture consisting of tables, chairs, and beds in excess of the
quantity required to furnish a one- or two-family dwelling house.
      5.   Lumber.
      6.   Other combustible materials.
   B.   Removal Required; Notice: Any person found to be in violation of this
section shall remove the combustible materials within thirty (30) days after
notice is sent by the city by certified mail. (Ord. 244, 9-1-1988)
   C.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate, neglect or refuse to comply
with, or who shall maintain or use any building or premises in the city in
violation of any of the provisions of this section shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each day that a violation is permitted
or continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense, and in addition to
the above penalty, such actions at law or in equity may be maintained by the
city or any interested persons as may be authorized by law. (Ord. 244, 9-1-
1988; amd. 2008 Code)
5-2-2: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, the term "fireworks" means and
includes any explosive composition, or any substance or combination of
substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons in
which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire underneath
to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, bombs
or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing any
explosive compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance or containing combustible substances producing visual effects, or any
other substance which is regulated by Illinois law, including 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 30/1 through 35/5; provided, however, that the term
"fireworks" shall not include snake or glowworm pellets; smoke devices; trick
noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby traps", "snappers", "trick
matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto burglar alarms"; sparklers, toy pistols,
toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing
0.25 grains or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
the explosion, and toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than
0.25 grains of explosive mixture. The use of such excluded articles shall be
permitted at all times. (Ord. 334, 8-26-2003; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Manufacture Of Fireworks: The manufacture of fireworks within the city
limits is prohibited except as authorized under the laws of the state, 425
Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/1 through 35/5 (or other applicable state law).
   C.   Sale Of Fireworks: No person shall offer for sale, expose for sale, or
sell at retail any fireworks within the city limits.
   D.   Display Of Fireworks; Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall possess, store, use, or explode any
fireworks unless he shall have been issued a fireworks display permit. No
person shall sell or use or explode any fireworks within the city without first
obtaining a permit as provided herein.
      2.   Eligibility For Permit:
         a.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be
eligible to be issued a display permit.
         b.   The city clerk is authorized to grant permits to groups of three
(3) or more adult individuals for supervised public displays of fireworks in
the city in accordance with the provisions of 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes
35/2.
      3.   Application For Permit: Any group of three (3) or more adult
individuals desiring a permit for a supervised public display of fireworks
shall file a written application with the city clerk at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the date of the display. Applications for such fireworks displays
shall state the names, addresses and ages of the three (3) or more adult
individuals applying for such permit; the date of the display; the location of
the display; and the location where the fireworks will be stored prior to the
display.
      4.   Bond: Each person shall furnish an indemnity bond in a sum of not
less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) conditioned on the compliance with
the provisions of this section.
      5.   Permit Fee: The city clerk shall collect a fee of ten dollars
($10.00) for the issuance of any permit authorized by this section.
      6.   Investigation Of Applicant; Approval Or Denial Of Permit: Each
application shall be investigated to determine whether the display is of a
character and so located so as not to constitute an unreasonable hazard to any
person or property. If, upon completion of the investigation, it is determined
that all requirements of this section are satisfied, the permit shall be
approved and issued. A copy of each permit shall be forwarded by the office of
the city clerk to the chief of police not less than forty eight (48) hours
before the display. In the event that the application is not approved, the
applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons therefor.
      7.   Nontransferability Of Permit: No permit granted hereunder shall be
transferable. Only the person named on the permit shall be authorized to
possess and display fireworks.
      8.   Conditions Of Permit:
         a.   Supervised public displays of fireworks shall be of such a
character, and so located, discharged or fired, so as not to be hazardous to
property or endanger any person.
         b.   The possession and use of fireworks by the permittee shall be
lawful only for the purpose of display contained in the permit.
         c.   Displays shall not be conducted before ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
or after ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M., except where prior approval is
granted for special programs.
   E.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be the responsibility of
parents or legal guardians of unemancipated persons under the age of eighteen
(18) years to assure that those persons comply with the restrictions of this
section. No parent or legal guardian of those persons shall knowingly permit or
assist in the violation of this section by any unemancipated person under the
age of eighteen (18) years.
   F.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit the use of fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies
for signal purposes or illumination, or the sale or use of blank cartridges for
a show or theater, or for ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military forces of the state of Illinois, the United States, or
authorized emergency services agencies such as rescue squad or fire and police
departments of the city or other municipalities. (Ord. 334, 8-26-2003)
CHAPTER 3
WEAPONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Firearms
5-3-1: FIREARMS:
   A.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or
discharge any rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver or other firearm, or air rifle
or air pistol, within the city; provided, however, that this subsection shall
not apply to police officers in the performance of their lawful duties. (Ord.
79, 5-18-1964)
   B.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian of any person under eighteen (18) years of age to permit or
allow such person under eighteen (18) years of age to handle or have in his
possession within the city any rifle, shotgun, pistol or revolver or other
firearm, or any air rifle or air pistol, or any other similar weapon, which, if
discharged, is of sufficient force or power to inflict bodily injury.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
section shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 79, 5-18-1964; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3.1
CANNABIS AND RELATED MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-3.1-1: Possession Of Cannabis Or The Synthetic Form Commonly Known As K2
Prohibited
5-3.1-2: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited
5-3.1-3: Tobacco And Minors
5-3.1-4: Penalty
5-3.1-1: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS OR THE SYNTHETIC FORM COMMONLY KNOWN AS K2
PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall possess ten grams (10 g) or less of any substance
containing cannabis, or the synthetic form of cannabis, 1-pentyl-3-(1-napthoyl)
indole, commonly known as K2.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, cannabis includes marijuana, hashish
and other substances which are identified as including any parts of the plant
cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted
from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or
preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germinating. (Ord. 416, 10-25-2016)
5-3.1-2: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall knowingly possess any item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it for the purpose of unlawfully ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body.
   B.   As used in this section, the following terms shall include and have the
following meanings:
    CANNABIS: Any substance defined as cannabis in section 3 of the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/3 as now or hereafter
amended.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any object or device used, designed for use or intended
for use in unlawfully ingesting, smoking, administering, or storing cannabis.
For the purposes of this section, drug paraphernalia includes but is not
limited to:
      1.   Metal, wooden, plastic, glass, stone or ceramic pipes, with or
without screens;
      2.   Water pipes;
      3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      5.   Roach clips;
      6.   Bongs;
      7.   One-hitters.
(Ord. 416, 10-25-2016)
5-3.1-3: TOBACCO AND MINORS:
   A.   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any
cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms, to any
minor under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   No minor under eighteen (18) years of age shall possess, purchase or
attempt to purchase any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any
of its forms.
   C.   For the purpose of this section, "smokeless tobacco" means any tobacco
products that are suitable for dipping or chewing. (Ord. 416, 10-25-2016)
5-3.1-4: PENALTY:
Whoever commits an offense set forth in this chapter or commits any other act
prohibited thereby for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall
be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Whoever commits an offense as set forth in section 131.01(g)
of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Whoever commits an offense as set
forth in section 131.05 of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Whoever commits
an offense as set forth in sections 131.07, 131.08 and 131.09(b) of this
chapter shall be fined not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00). Whoever
commits an offense as set forth in section 131.09(a) of this chapter shall be
fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any person who shall
violate section 131.02 or 131.09 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a
fine which may be reduced by no more than twenty five percent (25%) by approved
public or community service of not less than eight (8) hours nor more than
forty (40) hours for each violation. Any person who shall violate section
131.09 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine and attendance at an
approved course or counseling on the dangers of smoking. (Ord. 416, 10-25-2016)
CHAPTER 4
UNFAIR REAL ESTATE PRACTICES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Declaration Of Policy
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Prohibited Acts
5-4-4: Limitations
5-4-5: Fair Housing Commission
5-4-6: Grievance Procedure
5-4-7: Sanctions For Violations
5-4-8: Other Proceedings
5-4-9: Penalty
5-4-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared by the city council to be in the best interest of the
health, safety and welfare of the people of the city to assure equal
opportunity to all persons who engage in real estate transactions regardless of
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status,
physical or mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable
discharge from military service or familial status and, to that end, to
prohibit discrimination in real estate transactions. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968; amd.
2008 Code)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
DISCRIMINATION: Any act by any person who engages in real estate transactions,
which act does not assure equal opportunity to all other persons regardless of
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status,
physical or mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable
discharge from military service or familial status.
REAL ESTATE: Includes any lot, building, structure or portion thereof in the
city of Leland Grove which is used or occupied, or is maintained, arranged or
designed to be used or occupied, as a home, residence, sleeping place of one or
more persons, place of business or office, but such term shall not include
rooms for rental to one or two (2) persons in a single-family dwelling, the
remainder of which is occupied by: a) the owner or members of his immediate
family; or b) a lessee of the entire dwelling or members of his immediate
family.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any natural person, partnership, association or
corporation, or agent thereof, who, for a fee or other valuable consideration,
sells, purchases, exchanges, rents (or offers or negotiates to do any of the
foregoing) real property of another, or holds himself out as engaged in the
business of doing any of the foregoing, or manages and collects rent from the
real property of another. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968; amd. 2008 Code)
5-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real estate broker or salesperson,
lender, financial institution, advertiser, building contractor or agent of any
of the foregoing shall discriminate against any other person because of the
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status,
physical or mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable
discharge from military service or familial status of such other person, in
regard to the sale or rental of, or dealings concerning real estate. Any such
discrimination shall be considered an unfair real estate practice. Without
limiting the foregoing, it shall also be an unfair real estate practice and
unlawful for any real estate broker or other person to:
   A.   Publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published,
circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement,
sign, or other writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of
any real estate which will indicate or express any such discrimination.
   B.   Exploit or overcharge any person for real estate because of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical
or mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from military service or familial status.
   C.   Solicit for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease, of any real
estate on the grounds of loss of value due to the present or prospective entry
into any neighborhood of any person or persons of any particular race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or
mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from military service or familial status.
   D.   Make, distribute, or cause to be made or distributed, any written
material or statements designed to induce any owner of real estate to sell or
lease his property because of any present or prospective change in the race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical
or mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from military service or familial status of persons in the neighborhood.
   E.   Refuse to sell, lease or rent any real estate because of the race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical
or mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from military service or familial status of the proposed buyer or tenant.
   F.   Refuse examination of the copies of any listing of real estate by the
fair housing commission created by the provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Enter into a listing agreement which prohibits the sale or rental of
real estate to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or mental handicap, military
status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from military service or
familial status.
   H.   Act or undertake to act with respect to any real estate, the
disposition of which is prohibited to any person because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, physical or
mental handicap, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge
from military service or familial status. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968; amd. 2008 Code)
5-4-4: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property to the
public at large before selling or renting it, nor shall this chapter be deemed
to prohibit owners from giving preference to prospective tenants or buyers for
any reason other than race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry,
age, marital status, physical or mental handicap, military status, sexual
orientation, unfavorable discharge from military service or familial status.
(Ord. 96, 6-24-1968; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner to offer property for
sale or lease to any person if the owner has any reason to believe that such
person is not negotiating for the purchase or lease of such property in good
faith. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968)
5-4-5: FAIR HOUSING COMMISSION:
   A.   Created; Members; Appointment; Terms; Vacancies: A fair housing
commission shall be established in the following manner:
      1.   There is created by this chapter the fair housing commission,
hereinafter referred to as "the commission", to consist of seven (7) members,
all of whom shall have been bona fide residents of the city for two (2) years
immediately preceding said appointment. The members of the commission shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council.
      2.   The members of the commission shall be appointed for a term of three
(3) years, and in the event any member shall be, or shall during his term
become, unable or unwilling for any reason to serve as a member of the
commission, the mayor shall fill such vacancy by appointment, with the advice
and consent of the city council, for the remainder of the term vacated. All
appointments shall be in writing and shall be filed with the city clerk as a
public record. Upon the initial creation of the commission, two (2) members of
the commission shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years, two (2)
members of the commission for a term of two (2) years and three (3) members for
a term of one year. Thereafter, upon expiration of said terms, the succeeding
member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years.
      3.   At the first meeting of the commission, subsequent to May 1 of each
year, the members of the commission shall select one of its members to serve as
chair for the succeeding year and shall also appoint one of its members to
serve as secretary for the succeeding year.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the fair housing commission to:
      1.   Receive and investigate complaints charging unfair real estate
practices; and
      2.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, seek compliance by violators,
hold hearings, make findings of fact, issue recommendations and publish its
findings of fact and recommendations in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968)
5-4-6: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Complaint Filed: Any person aggrieved in any manner by an unfair real
estate practice may file a sworn written complaint with the commission setting
forth his grievance. Said complaint must be filed within thirty (30) days of
the commission of the alleged unfair real estate practice and shall state the
name and address of the complainant and of the person or persons against whom
the complaint is brought, and shall also state the alleged facts of the alleged
unfair real estate practice. A copy of said complaint shall be served on the
person complained against by certified or registered mail.
   B.   Investigation: After the filing of any complaint and service of a copy
of the complaint upon the person complained against, the chair of the
commission shall designate three (3) of the members to make an investigation in
connection therewith, and they shall file a written report of the results of
said investigation with the commission within twenty (20) days from the date of
their appointment. The commission may allow an additional twenty (20) day
period for investigation upon written application of the three (3) member
investigating committee filed within the original twenty (20) day period.
   C.   Remedies: If such three (3) members determine that probable cause
exists for crediting the alleged unfair real estate practice as a result of
said investigation, they shall immediately endeavor to eliminate the alleged
practice by conference, conciliation and persuasion.
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   In case of failure to eliminate such practice or in advance thereof,
if, in their judgment, circumstances so warrant, they shall send a written copy
of such complaint to all parties and at the same time notify them of a full
hearing of the alleged practice, at a time and place so specified in such
notice, which time shall not be less than ten (10) days following service of
the said notice. Following such notification, these three (3) members shall not
participate further in any action concerning the practice complained of, and
all future action shall be conducted by the remaining four (4) members of the
commission; provided, that the commissioners making such investigation are not
disqualified from testifying as any other witness.
      2.   Any real estate broker or other person charged with the unfair real
estate practice shall have the right to file an answer, and he and the
complainant may appear at the hearing in person, or be represented by counsel,
and submit testimony.
      3.   A copy of the complaint shall be mailed to the party complained
against prior to the hearing.
      4.   Such hearing shall be conducted by the four (4) members of the
commission who did not take part in the investigation. The commission shall not
be bound by the strict rules of evidence but shall decide the case in
accordance with the preponderance of the evidence, and which decision shall be
supported by substantial competent evidence. The commission shall have power to
administer oaths and to take sworn testimony.
      5.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the commission shall render a
written report and recommendations which shall be served by mail upon the
parties. No report shall be delayed more than sixty (60) days after the date of
the hearing. The commission shall keep a written record of the evidence of its
hearings. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968)
5-4-7: SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS:
At the conclusion of the hearing provided for in section
5-4-6 of this chapter, the commission may, as part of its findings, report and
order:
   A.   That no unfair housing practice has been proved and that no further
action is required.
   B.   Direct the city attorney to institute proceedings against any person
found to have committed an unfair real estate practice in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968)
5-4-8: OTHER PROCEEDINGS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit the right of the city or the
complainant to prosecute alleged violations of this chapter in the usual and
customary manner notwithstanding the fact that the investigating commissioners
determined that no probable cause existed for proceeding further with the
unfair housing practice or the fact that the commission may have decided
adversely to the complainant on his complaint. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968)
5-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person committing an unfair real estate practice shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 96, 6-24-1968; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Part Time Police
5-5-1: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The city of Leland Grove may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Leland Grove police department, but the number of hours a
part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois police training act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB as
now or hereafter amended.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said
employment, shall only be entitled to the pay and benefits afforded part time
employees, and may be removed by the city authorities at any time. Part time
police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the police department. (Ord. 376, 2-28-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Declaration
5-6-3: Curfew Authorized
5-6-4: Orders Authorized
5-6-5: Duration
5-6-6: Notice
5-6-7: Violations
5-6-8: Effect On Other Ordinances
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
EMERGENCY: A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force
or
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing
or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises
within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any governmental
unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to said civil
emergency.
In addition to the definition specified above an emergency shall also be deemed
to exist if the conditions specified in the Illinois Emergency Management
Agency Act 20 ILCS 3305/4 as now or hereafter amended shall apply herein. (Ord.
440, 3-24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-2: DECLARATION:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in subsection (a) of this section exists, the
Mayor or designee is authorized to declare the existence of a local state of
emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor or designee, under
oath, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the
nature of the emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the municipal clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
(Ord. 440, 3-24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-3: CURFEW AUTHORIZED:
After proclamation of a local state of emergency by the Mayor, he or she may,
after consultation with the Council, order a general curfew applicable to such
geographical areas of the city or to the city as a whole, as he or she deems
reasonable and advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night
as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 440, 3-24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-4: ORDERS AUTHORIZED:
After the proclamation of a local state of emergency, the Mayor may also, in
the interest of public safety and welfare, and to address this issues caused
threatened by the emergency, make take any or all of the following actions by
executive order during the state of emergency:
   A.   All actions reasonably necessary to sign contracts, hire temporary
workers, and make payment for services and equipment; or to conform with
emergency declarations made by County, State or Federal authorities to respond
to the emergency.
   B.   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality; and
   C.   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized  to approve new spending by the City during the existence of the
local state of emergency.
   D.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever. (Ord. 440, 3-
24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-5: DURATION:
The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a period of up to
thirty one (31) days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special
meeting of the city council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by
a proclamation of the Mayor, designee or, his or her interim emergency
successor, indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or
his or her interim emergency successor, shall have the power, after approval of
the Council, to re-proclaim the existence of an emergency at the end of each
thirty one (31) days period during the time said emergency exists. (Ord. 440,
3-24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-6: NOTICE:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the municipal clerk shall
notify the news media situated within the, and shall cause at least four copies
of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and any curfew to
be posted at the following places within the city: the city hall, the police
station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew. (Ord. 440, 3-24-2020;
Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-7: VIOLATIONS:
Any person violating the provisions of this section or executive orders issued
pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the City and shall be
punished as provided by section
4-1C-9 of the City code. (Ord. 440, 3-24-2020; Ord. 441, 4-28-2021)
5-6-8: EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES:
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code, giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the City. (Ord. 440, 3-24-2020; Ord. 441,
4-28-2021)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS; DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Through Streets
6-1-2: Stop Streets
6-1-3: One-Way Streets; Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
6-1-4: Speed Restrictions
6-1-5: Right Turn On Red Light At Chatham Road And Cherry Road
6-1-6: Reckless Driving; Driving Under Influence
6-1-7: Regulation Of Truck Vehicular Traffic
6-1-8: Road Closures
6-1-1: THROUGH STREETS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, the term "motor vehicle"
shall be taken to mean and include every self-propelled device in, upon, or by
which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway.
   B.   Authority To Designate: The Mayor or anyone designated by the Mayor as
Road Commissioner, in order to regulate traffic, shall have the power to
designate certain streets as through streets and to erect stop signs at the
intersections of such designated through streets.
   C.   Stops Required: It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor
vehicle to enter such designated through street, at which a stop sign has been
erected, without bringing such motor vehicle to a full and complete stop as
near the curb line of the through street as may be possible. (Ord. 28, 10-13-
1952)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be
prosecuted and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 28, 10-13-1952; amd. 2008 Code)
6-1-2: STOP STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to drive into the
following intersections without first completely stopping his or her vehicle as
required by the City and State Statute. The stop signs provided for herein and
the installation thereof shall conform to the requirements of the "Uniform
Manual on Traffic Control Devices" published by the Illinois Department of
Transportation. Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction, be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2008 Code)
Street Stop At Intersection With Direction Of Traffic Ordinance No.
Street         Stop At Intersection    Direction Of Traffic Ordinance No.
               With
Ash Street     Illini Road             West                 163; amd. 2008 Code
              Park Avenue             East and west        163; amd. 2008 Code
              Wiggins Avenue          East and west        175; amd. 2008 Code
Chatham Road   Laurel Street           North and south      126; amd. 2008 Code
Cherry Road    Noble Avenue            East and west        175; amd. 2008 Code
Laurel Street  Chatham Road            West                 126; amd. 2008 Code
Noble Avenue   Cherry Road             North and south      175; amd. 2008 Code
Park Avenue    Ash Street              North and south      163; amd. 2008 Code
               Chatham Road at or near
Private lane   the intersection of     East                 126; amd. 2008 Code
               Laurel Street
Wiggins Avenue Ash Street              North and south      175; amd. 2008 Code
Wildwood       Wildwood and Top Hill   North and south      371
 
6-1-3: ONE-WAY STREETS; OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in violation of
markings, signs, barriers, or other devices placed to designate streets, parts
of streets or specific lanes thereon upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed
in one direction during one period and the opposite direction during another
period of the day. (Ord. 321, 5-23-2000)
6-1-4: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Proper Speed: No vehicle may be driven upon any street,
alley or highway at a speed which is greater than is reasonable and proper with
regard to traffic conditions and the use of the street, alley or highway, or
endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact that the speed of a
vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does relieve the
driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a
hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special
hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of
weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the street, alley or
highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all persons to
use due care.
   B.   Statutory Speed Limits: No person may drive a vehicle upon any street,
alley or highway at a speed which is greater than the applicable statutory
maximum speed limit established by a regulation or ordinance.
   C.   Speed Limits Established:
      1.   Unless some other speed restriction is established by ordinance, the
maximum speed limit for all vehicles traveling within the boundaries of the
city is twenty five (25) miles per hour, except that section of Chatham Road
located within the boundaries of the city,  which shall have a speed limit of
thirty five (35) miles per hour.
      2.   The maximum speed limit for all vehicles traveling in an alley
located within the boundaries of the city is fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   D.   Alteration Of Speed Limits; Signs Posted: The mayor and the city
council may alter any speed restriction in subsection C of this section to a
higher or lower restriction, in which event, signs shall be posted upon such
street, alley or highway indicating the speed restriction. (Ord. 321, 5-23-
2000)
6-1-5: RIGHT TURN ON RED LIGHT AT CHATHAM ROAD AND CHERRY ROAD:
   A.   Right Turn Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for motor vehicle traffic
facing a steady red signal light at the intersection of Chatham Road and Cherry
Road, while proceeding in any direction on either street, to proceed into the
intersection for the purpose of making a right turn while such red light is
showing. At the intersection of Chatham Road and Cherry Road, motor vehicle
traffic approaching said intersection while facing a steady red signal light
alone must stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection and must remain stopped until a steady green signal light is
showing for the direction in which it is proceeding.
   B.   Signs Posted: An appropriate sign conforming to the uniform manual for
signs shall be erected at all four (4) corners of said intersection giving
notice of this regulation prohibiting right turns after stopping while facing a
steady red signal light. (Ord. 132, 2-25-1974)
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 132, 2-25-1974; amd. 2008 Code)
6-1-6: RECKLESS DRIVING; DRIVING UNDER INFLUENCE:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   For the purpose of this subsection, the term "motor vehicle" shall
be taken to mean and include every self-propelled device in, upon, or by which
any person or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway. (Ord.
27, 10-13-1952)
      2.   No person shall drive or operate a motor vehicle upon any street,
highway, or alley within the limits of the city in a reckless, heedless, or
wanton manner, or while under the influence of any alcoholic beverage, other
drug or intoxicating compound.
      3.   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this subsection shall
be prosecuted therefor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 27, 10-13-1952; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Drug And Alcohol Testing: The chief of police is hereby authorized in
his or her discretion to request or direct the administration of chemical
analyses or other tests to determine the concentration of alcohol, other drug
or intoxicating compound in the breath, blood, urine, or other bodily substance
of any person arrested upon a charge of violation of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-501, or any similar ordinance of the city. (Ord. 189, 12-28-1981;
amd. 2008 Code)
6-1-7: REGULATION OF TRUCK VEHICULAR TRAFFIC:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to regulate and restrict by
classification vehicular traffic upon certain city streets in order to prevent
infrastructure damage, promote safe and efficient traffic flows, and preserve
the integrity and safety of the city's residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Definitions: The terms used in this section shall have the following
meanings unless otherwise specifically provided:
    ARTERIAL: Those roadways designated as arterial on the five (5) year
classification map for the Springfield area prepared by the Illinois department
of transportation.
   CITY: The city of Leland Grove.
   DESTINATION POINT: The fixed location that the operator of a vehicle must
directly access in order to load or unload goods, passengers or other cargo, or
to perform services.
   VEHICLE: Includes the motorized unit and any trailer or semitrailer attached
to the motorized unit.
   C.   Operation Limited To Designated Arterial Roadways: Except as otherwise
provided by this section, the operation of the following vehicles shall only
occur upon the designated arterial roadways in the city:
Any vehicle designed or used for the transportation of commodities, equipment
or materials, which vehicle:
      1.   Extends more than eight feet (8') to the rear of the driving or
passenger compartment of the vehicle;
      2.   Exceeds eight feet six inches (8'6") in width, and/or twenty six
feet (26') in length;
      3.   Exceeds eight thousand (8,000) pounds' (4 tons) gross weight,
including vehicle and maximum load; this includes all vehicles registered as a
motor vehicle of the second division except those in class B.
   D.   Exceptions: The prohibitions set forth in this section shall not apply
to the following:
      1.   The operation of a vehicle upon any street where directly and
unavoidably necessary in order to access or depart from a destination point.
When a destination point is not located immediately adjacent to an arterial
roadway, the vehicle operator shall access and/or depart from a destination
point using the shortest and most direct city route to and from the nearest
arterial roadway.
      2.   The operation of emergency and law enforcement vehicles.
      3.   The operation of any vehicle owned or operated by the city, a public
utility or any contractor, while directly engaged in the repair, maintenance or
construction of streets, street improvements or utilities within the city.
      4.   The operation of any vehicle within and pursuant to any officially
established temporary detour route.
      5.   The operation of any vehicle directly engaged in the collection and/
or transport of waste from city residences and businesses, including, but not
limited to, recyclable material.
      6.   The operation of passenger buses, including, but not limited to,
mass transit vehicles and school buses.
      7.   The operation of a vehicle otherwise permitted by this code to be
operated or parked at a residence by a resident.
   E.   Enforcement; Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provision of this section shall be punished by a fine not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 397, 6-24-2014)
6-1-8: ROAD CLOSURES:
   A.   Purpose: The City Council finds that the closing of Greenbriar and
Huntleigh Roads at the City's Municipal boundaries is a public purpose that is
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the City, its
residents and all persons using the City's streets. In addition, the closing of
Greenbriar and Huntleigh Roads at the City's Municipal boundaries serves a wide
variety of functions that promote the purposes of this section. These functions
include, without limitation, each of the following:
      1.   Enhancing public safety by reducing vehicular traffic on roadways,
which have no sidewalks, curbs or street lights.
      2.   Enhancing public safety and controlling road maintenance costs of
the City by reducing vehicular traffic on roadways, thus slowing the
deterioration of asphalt pavements and oil and chip pavements.
      3.   Enhancing public safety and controlling police costs of the City by
reducing vehicular traffic on roadways, thus permitting City police to engage
in other public safety activities.
   B.   Definitions:
    AFFECTED STREETS: Greenbriar and Huntleigh Roads.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or other
legal entity.
   PUBLIC SERVICE VEHICLE: Any State, County and Municipal law enforcement
vehicle, Municipal Fire Department vehicle, public or private ambulance
vehicle, or any other emergency service vehicle, and includes school buses and
licensed waste haulers.
   C.   Closing Of Greenbriar And Huntleigh Roads:
      1.   From and after the effective date of this section, the affected
streets will be closed to vehicular traffic by any person, except a public
service vehicle, at the point on the street closest to the Municipal boundary
of the City of Leland Grove, Illinois, as determined by the Mayor and the City
Road Commissioner.
      2.   The appropriate means by which the closure of the affected streets
will be undertaken, including the necessary signage indicating the closure will
be determined by the Mayor and the City Council.
      3.   The total cost to be incurred for the closure of the affected
streets shall not be more than the amount budgeted, as set forth in the most
recent budget approved or as such may be modified with the approval of the City
Council. (Ord. 347, 9-27-2005)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Application Of Parking Ordinances
6-2-2: Method Of Parking
6-2-3: Parking Not To Obstruct Traffic
6-2-4: Parking Regulated
6-2-5: Parking Prohibited At Certain Places
6-2-6: Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours
6-2-7: Parking Prohibited On Specific Streets
6-2-8: Enforcement And Penalty
6-2-9: Administrative Towing Fee
6-2-10: Vehicles Subject To Seizure And Impoundment
6-2-11: Towing And Storage Fees
6-2-12: Procedure For Seizure And Impoundment Of Vehicles
6-2-13: Notice And Opportunity For Hearing
6-2-14: Administrative Hearings For Impoundment And Release Of Vehicles
6-2-1: APPLICATION OF PARKING ORDINANCES:
The provisions of any ordinances prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking
of vehicles shall apply at all times or at those times therein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer, authorized personnel or official traffic control device. (Ord.
324, 3-27-2001)
6-2-2: METHOD OF PARKING:
No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the curb
or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord.
324, 3-27-2001; amd. 2008 Code)
6-2-3: PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in a manner or under conditions
as to leave available less than fifteen feet (15') of the width of the roadway
for free movement of vehicular traffic on a two-way street or less than ten
feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic
on a one-way street. (Ord. 324, 3-27-2001)
6-2-4: PARKING REGULATED:
When signs have been erected upon any street indicating that stopping, standing
or parking is prohibited during designated hours or is permitted for a
specified period of time, no person shall park any vehicle on the street in
violation of the sign. (Ord. 324, 3-27-2001)
6-2-5: PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN PLACES:
The operator of any vehicle shall not stop, stand or park a vehicle in any of
the following places, except when necessary in an emergency to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with directions of a police officer,
authorized personnel, or official traffic sign or signal, or city ordinance.
For the purpose of this section, "official signs" shall mean all signs,
markings and devices which conform with the state manual and not inconsistent
with city ordinances, placed or erected by authority of the city for the
purpose of regulating, warning and controlling parking. Violations may be
charged as specified in section
6-2-8 of this chapter.
   A.   Within an intersection.
   B.   Upon a crosswalk.
   C.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel.
   D.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   E.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   G.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   H.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   I.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station, within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance, when properly
signposted.
   J.   On a sidewalk or parkway.
   K.   On any properly designated and marked fire or emergency lane.
   L.   On any public street or portion thereof at any time when such street is
being cleaned and which has been posted as such.
   M.   In any posted curb loading zone.
   N.   In any public alley, except for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise; provided that the flow of traffic in the alley may not be blocked
nor the vehicle left unattended.
   O.   In any bus stop; provided that vehicles other than buses may drive to
the curb at a bus stop for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers.
   P.   In any traffic lane; provided that a vehicle may be stopped briefly
within a traffic lane for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers.
   Q.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   R.   On any snow emergency route during a state of emergency as declared by
the city.
   S.   On any street adjacent to school property or playgrounds when official
signs are erected.
   T.   On any property owned by the city and used for the transaction of
public business when official signs are erected; provided, however, this
prohibition shall not apply to city owned vehicles operating in an emergency or
with prior approval from the city.
   U.   In front of a public or private driveway except briefly to pick up or
discharge passengers.
   V.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   W.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of this subsection
shall result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fifty
(50) hours of community service.
   X.   On any controlled access highway.
   Y.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
   Z.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 324, 3-27-
2001; amd. 2008 Code)
6-2-6: PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS:
No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle on any street or alley between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day,
except in an emergency. (Ord. 324, 3-27-2001)
6-2-7: PARKING PROHIBITED ON SPECIFIC STREETS:
No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, along the following streets. Appropriate signs shall be
erected designating the areas as no parking zones. Any person violating this
section shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (2008 Code)
 
Street           Location                   Sides          Ordinance No.
Cherry Road      Between Chatham Road and   South          137; amd. 2008 Code
                 Outer Park Drive
Laurel Street    Between Chatham Road and   North and west 89; amd. 2008 Code
                 Illini Road
Outer Park Drive Bates Avenue westward and  South and west 304; amd. 2008 Code
                 northward to Laurel Street                315; amd. 2008 Code
 
6-2-8: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Liability For Violations: The registered owner of a vehicle found in
violation of any parking or vehicle restriction in this chapter, as well as the
person in actual possession of the vehicle, shall be responsible for any
violation. The lessor of a vehicle is responsible for providing information
regarding the lessee of a vehicle within the appropriate time as may be set
forth in the Illinois vehicle code in order to avoid liability for unpaid
parking fines.
   B.   Separate Offenses: A separate offense shall be deemed committed each
hour during which a violation occurs or continues to occur.
   C.   Towing And Impoundment; Penalties: The chief of police is hereby
authorized to cause a towing service to remove and take possession of any
vehicle found in violation of this chapter. In addition to any towing or
impoundment expenses for any vehicle found in violation of this chapter, the
following penalties will be applicable to the owner or operator of a vehicle
for which a violation notice is issued; provided, that the amount is paid
within fourteen (14) days after the issuance of a violation notice: Two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00). If the amount is not paid within fourteen (14) days
after the issuance of a violation notice, the amount shall be doubled. Any
owner or operator who shall fail to pay the penalty as prescribed in this
section shall be prosecuted for violation of this chapter and shall pay a fine
of an additional twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day exclusive of court costs;
provided, that no fine shall exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
any single offense. (Ord. 402, 3-24-2015, eff. 3-24-2015)
6-2-9: ADMINISTRATIVE TOWING FEE:
The registered owner or the agent or agents of the owner shall be liable to the
city for an administrative fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in
addition to any and all applicable fines, costs, towing, and storage fees. The
administrative fee shall be collected by and paid to the city. Additional
towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to the person,
firm, or entity that tows or stores the vehicle impounded pursuant to section
6-2-8 of this chapter. The administrative fee provided for in this section
shall be waived by the city upon submission of verifiable proof that the
vehicle was stolen at the time that the vehicle was impounded.
If an individual tried for a violation of a state or federal law resulting in a
motor vehicle's impoundment receives a judgment of "not guilty" in a court of
competent jurisdiction, said administrative fee shall be refunded to the owner
of record. A disposition of court supervision is not a judgment of "not
guilty".
Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty, or
administrative fee imposed under this section which remains unpaid in whole or
in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under
the administrative review law may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 402, 3-24-2015, eff. 3-24-
2015)
6-2-10: VEHICLES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
A vehicle may be seized and impounded by the city when an arrest of a person is
made by a member of the police department and the motor vehicle was used at the
time of the arrest for the commission of any of the following violations or
offenses:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 2012; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act; or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of section 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1
of the criminal code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012; or
   F.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
vehicle code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois
vehicle code; or
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of article 16 of the criminal code
of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012; or
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
criminal code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012; or
   M.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of section 11-503 of
the Illinois vehicle code:
      1.   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
      2.   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession. (Ord. 402, 3-
24-2015, eff. 3-24-2015)
6-2-11: TOWING AND STORAGE FEES:
When a vehicle has been seized and/or impounded pursuant to the preceding
section or any other law or statute, the owner thereof or the agent of the
owner shall be liable to and shall pay and reimburse the city or other person
who shall have towed said vehicle for the reasonable fees for such towing, and
shall be liable to and pay and reimburse the city or other person for all
storage fees for the period of time that said vehicle remains in storage
following the seizure and impoundment. (Ord. 402, 3-24-2015, eff. 3-24-2015)
6-2-12: PROCEDURE FOR SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
Whenever a city police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle is
subject to impoundment pursuant to section
6-2-10 of this chapter, the officer may provide for the towing of the motor
vehicle to a facility authorized by the city.
Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within
thirty five (35) days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written
decision, as provided in section
6-2-14 of this chapter, shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of article II of chapter 4 of the Illinois vehicle code, or
as elsewhere provided for in this code. (Ord. 402, 3-24-2015, eff. 3-24-2015)
6-2-13: NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING:
   A.   At the time the vehicle is towed, the municipality shall notify or make
a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the
following:
      1.   The fact of the seizure and of the right of the vehicle owner or the
lessee to an administrative hearing, and
      2.   That the seized motor vehicle will remain impounded pending the
completion of an administrative hearing, unless the owner or lessee of the
vehicle, or a lienholder, posts with the city a bond equal to the
administrative fee as set forth in this chapter and pays all towing and storage
charges.
   B.   The registered owner or lessee of the vehicle and any lienholder of
record shall also be provided with a written notice of administrative hearing.
The notice shall:
      1.   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's
address as registered with the secretary of state;
      2.   Be served upon such interested parties within ten (10) days after
impoundment of a vehicle by the city; and
      3.   Contain a date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
   C.   An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than forty
five (45) days after the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing. (Ord.
402, 3-24-2015, eff. 3-24-2015)
6-2-14: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS FOR IMPOUNDMENT AND RELEASE OF VEHICLES:
In addition to the requirements for administrative hearings contained in
subdivision (b)(4) of section 11-208.3 of the Illinois vehicle code relating to
administrative hearings, the following are required:
   A.   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who is
an attorney licensed to practice law in this state for a minimum of three (3)
years;
   B.   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing officer
shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the vehicle
impoundment;
   C.   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the municipality;
   D.   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the administrative review law; and
   E.   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for the
vehicle impoundment no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid. (Ord. 402, 3-24-2015, eff. 3-24-2015)
ARTICLE A.  PARKING COMMERCIAL, NONCOMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Definitions
6-2A-2: Commercial Vehicles, Commercial Trailers And Boats
6-2A-3: Overnight Parking On Public Ways And In Front Yards
6-2A-4: Side And Rear Yard Parking
6-2A-5: Inside Storage Of Vehicles
6-2A-6: Limitations On Use Of Vehicles
6-2A-7: Loading, Unloading And Servicing Noncommercial Vehicles
6-2A-8: Existing Nonconformities
6-2A-9: Temporary Parking Permit
6-2A-10: Penalty
6-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known, or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or flight in the air.
BOAT: Any watercraft capable of being used as a means of human transportation
on water but not including inner tubes, air mattresses or similar devices.
CAMPING TRAILER: A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with partial
side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational camping or travel use and of a size or weight not
requiring an over dimension permit when towed upon an Illinois highway.
COMMERCIAL TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation designed to
carry freight, goods, wares, or personal property whether enclosed or open
which is used in a business with the motive or intent to generate profit or
income, or which actually generates profit or income. If such a commercial
trailer bears any advertisement or lettering other than the name of the make or
model of the unit, it shall be presumed to be a commercial trailer provided,
however, that the absence of such advertisement or lettering shall not be
presumed to indicate that the trailer is not used as a commercial trailer.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any "vehicle" or other unit defined in this section which
is used for hire exclusively, or with the motive or intent to generate profit
or income, or which actually generates profit or income. Any "vehicle" or other
unit defined in this section which bears any advertisement or lettering which
is more than the make or model name of such unit, or the name and location of
the dealer, shall be presumed to be a commercial vehicle. Semitrailer cabs and
semitrailers shall also be presumed to be commercial vehicles. A "vehicle"
which is used for both commercial and personal use including, but not limited
to, an automobile, pickup truck, van, sport utility vehicle, or crossover which
does not bear advertisement of a business entity shall not be presumed to be a
commercial vehicle.
HOUSE TRAILER: A trailer or semitrailer, not used commercially, equipped and
used for living quarters or for human habitation (temporarily or permanently)
rather than for the transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise.
MOTOR HOME:
   A.   A self-contained motor vehicle, not used commercially, designed or
permanently converted to provide living quarters for recreational, camping or
travel use, with direct walk through access to the living quarters from the
driver's seat. Any vehicle which has four (4) of the following items shall be
considered a motor home:
      1.   A cooking facility with an on board fuel source;
      2.   A gas or electric refrigerator;
      3.   A toilet with exterior evacuation;
      4.   A heating or air conditioning system with an on board power or fuel
source separate from the vehicle engine;
      5.   A potable water supply system that includes at least a sink, a
faucet, and a water tank with an exterior service supply connection; and
      6.   A one hundred ten (110) to one hundred twenty five (125) volt
electric power supply.
   B.   The term "motor home" shall also include mini-motor homes and van
campers.
MOTORCYCLE: Any motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground.
NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle other than a "commercial vehicle" as defined
in this section.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, mini- motor home,
travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially.
SEMITRAILER: A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
SEMITRAILER CAB: A motor vehicle designed and used for drawing a semitrailer.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, designed for carrying
boats, motorcycles, animals, fowl, freight, goods, wares or other personal
property. The term "trailer" shall also include boat trailers, horse trailers,
and utility trailers.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over dimension permit when towed on an Illinois highway.
TRUCK CAMPER: A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a portable
unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is designed or permanently
converted to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or
camping use, or such portable unit alone.
VEHICLE: Any unit defined in this section.
YARD TRACTOR: A motor vehicle designed primarily to provide motive power for
yard and landscaping work. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-2: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES, COMMERCIAL TRAILERS AND BOATS:
   A.   Regulations: No person shall keep, store or park overnight a commercial
vehicle or commercial trailer, boat, boat trailer, camper or recreational
vehicle within the city between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon Friday
and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon Monday. The keeping, storage, or parking of a
boat, boat trailer, camper or recreational vehicle must be limited to being
parked in a side or rear yard only. If parked in a side yard, no part of the
boat or vehicle may extend past the front of the building. The same may be
parked on a driveway while loading, unloading, or in transition. The forty
eight (48) hour period in question may only be utilized one time without the
written authorization of the zoning administrator.
      1.   Motor homes, trailers, campers, boats, and recreational vehicles are
not permitted on city owned property or on roadway rights of way. All of the
aforesaid vehicles and items must be operable and have a current Illinois
vehicle or boat license. For good cause shown, parking in other yards for a
period of not to exceed one week is permitted upon the issuance of a written
permit from the zoning administrator.
   B.   On Public Property: A commercial vehicle may not be kept, stored or
parked overnight on a city right of way or extend over a public sidewalk.
   C.   On Private Property: The keeping, storage or parking of a commercial
vehicle on private property must also conform to the off street parking
requirements of the city zoning ordinance 1 .
   D.   Exceptions: The restrictions of this section shall not apply to
commercial vehicles while being used for pick ups, deliveries or other service
within the city.
   E.   Effective Date: With respect to boats and boat trailers, this section
is effective April 15, 2016. In all other respects, this section is effective
immediately.
   F.   Violation: A violation of this section shall be a class C violation.
(Ord. 407, 2-23-2016)
   G.   Variations: The following rules shall govern the practice before the
city council whenever a variation in the application of the rules prohibiting
the parking of commercial vehicles or commercial trailers is sought:
      1.   Petition For Variation: A person desiring a variation in the
application of the regulations prohibiting the parking of commercial vehicles
and commercial trailers on city streets and residential property contained in
this article, or any amendments thereto, must be an owner or contract purchaser
and shall file with the city administrator a written petition seeking a
variation of enforcement and describing the reasons therefor. The petition
shall include the names and addresses of all the owners of parcels of land that
abut the land for which the variance is sought. For this purpose, the names and
addresses used for the most recent tax bill on such land shall be sufficient.
      2.   Petition Transmitted To City Officials: The city administrator shall
transmit the petition to the city clerk and the members of the city council for
hearing at a regularly scheduled meeting of the city council.
      3.   Standards For Variations: The city council may waive or vary the
enforcement of the prohibition against commercial vehicles and commercial
trailers on residential property where there are practical difficulties or
particular hardships in carrying out the strict letter of the regulations set
forth in this section. In its consideration of the standards of practical
difficulties or particular hardships, the city council may consider such
factors which include, but are not limited to, the following: enforcement will
cause undue hardship such as affecting the homeowner's ability to earn a
livelihood, lack of reasonable alternatives, previous history, size of the
vehicle and the vehicle's impact on local roads and rights of way.
      4.   Notice Of Hearing: There shall be notice of the time and place of
the public hearing. The notice shall contain the particular location for which
relief is requested as well as a brief description of the requested relief. A
notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be posted on or as
close as possible to the land for which relief is sought. Additionally, notice
of the time and place of the public hearing shall be mailed not less than ten
(10) days prior to the hearing to persons identified as owners of abutting land
in the petition.
      5.   Decisions: All decisions of the city council on variances shall
require a majority vote of the quorum and such decisions shall be final,
subject only to judicial review, in accordance with applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 410, 7-26-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-12 of this code.
6-2A-3: OVERNIGHT PARKING ON PUBLIC WAYS AND IN FRONT YARDS:
No person shall keep, store or park overnight any noncommercial vehicle or
commercial trailer on a city right of way or any closer than either thirty feet
(30') from the front lot line or in front of a line even with the front, load
bearing wall of the residence, whichever distance is greater, nor shall any
such vehicle be kept, stored or parked, or extended over a public sidewalk or
other city right of way. Except for the prohibition of keeping, storing,
parking, or extending any vehicle over a public sidewalk or other city right of
way, the restrictions in this section are not intended to preclude or prohibit
parking of noncommercial vehicles at any place on a designated driveway,
whether paved or established by permanent rock or gravel. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012,
eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-4: SIDE AND REAR YARD PARKING:
No person shall keep, store or park overnight any noncommercial vehicle in a
side yard or rear yard in such a way that it comes any closer than three feet
(3') from a side or rear lot line. This section shall not limit keeping,
storage or parking upon that portion of a driveway abutting a side lot line;
provided, that such vehicle is in compliance with the other provisions of this
article. No more than one noncommercial vehicle of the same kind may be kept,
stored or parked in a side or rear yard. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-5: INSIDE STORAGE OF VEHICLES:
Notwithstanding the requirements of sections
6-2A-2,
6-2A-3 and
6-2A-4 of this article, a person may keep, store or park any commercial
vehicle, commercial trailer, or noncommercial vehicle inside a fully enclosed
building or structure, so long as that building or structure otherwise complies
with other city ordinances. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-6: LIMITATIONS ON USE OF VEHICLES:
No person shall use any commercial vehicle, commercial trailer, or
noncommercial vehicle as sleeping or living quarters, even on a temporary
basis. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-7: LOADING, UNLOADING AND SERVICING NONCOMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
A person may keep, store or park a noncommercial vehicle upon a city right of
way in front of a residence for a period of no more than forty eight (48)
consecutive hours at any one time for the purpose of loading, unloading,
testing, or servicing such unit. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-8: EXISTING NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconformity; Compliance With Provisions: The keeping,
storage or parking of a commercial or noncommercial vehicle or commercial
trailer, except a semitrailer, existing at the effective date hereof, although
not conforming with the provisions hereof, may be continued for a period of
sixty (60) days following the effective date hereof, after which, all keeping,
storage and parking shall conform to the requirements of this article.
   B.   Change To Another Nonconformity: Keeping, storage or parking in a
different nonconforming position may not be substituted for keeping, storage or
parking in an existing nonconforming position.
   C.   Change To A Conforming Situation: Whenever an existing nonconformity
under this article has been brought into conformity, such shall not be changed
back to nonconformity.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Nonconformity: In the event that a nonconformity is
discontinued in less than sixty (60) days, the use shall thereafter conform to
the requirements of this article.
   E.   Transfer Of Nonconformity: Any nonconformity existing at the effective
date hereof may not be transferred to a new owner.
   F.   Scope: This section shall not allow any person to keep, store or park a
vehicle over or upon a public sidewalk or city right of way. (Ord. 379, 7-24-
2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-9: TEMPORARY PARKING PERMIT:
Notwithstanding the prohibitions of section
6-2A-3 of this article with regard to parking of noncommercial vehicles on the
city right of way, in the event of special occasions or extraordinary
circumstances whereby the established driveway or other parking areas on
private property will not accommodate the vehicles of guests or visitors, a
person may obtain a temporary parking permit from the city police department
for a period not to exceed seven (7) days (which permit may be renewed and
extended for good cause), informing the police department of the make, model,
color and style of the automobile, its owner, its license number, and the
street address at or near which said vehicle or vehicles will be temporarily
parked. (Ord. 379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
6-2A-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this article shall be punished by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation and may be ordered to take such actions
as are necessary to comply with the terms of this article. Each day upon which
a violation occurs or continues shall be viewed as a separate violation. (Ord.
379, 7-24-2012, eff. 9-1-2012)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Prohibited Deposits On Public Ways And Places
7-1-2: Driveways And Curb Cuts; New Street Intersections
7-1-3: Prohibited Activities On City Streets
7-1-1: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES:
   A.   Garbage And Rubbish: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw,
place, deposit, or leave, or cause or permit to be thrown, placed, deposited or
left, any rubbish, filth or garbage in or upon any portion of any street,
alley, sidewalk, ditch, culvert, stream or storm sewer within the limits of the
City. (Ord. 95, 5-27-1968)
   B.   Landscape Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit,
place, or leave, or cause or permit to be thrown, placed, deposited or left,
any accumulation of cut grass, cut weeds, tree leaves, tree limbs or similar
matter in or upon any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk, ditch, culvert,
stream, or storm sewer. However, no person shall be required to remove any
natural accumulation of such matter. (Ord. 95, 5-27-1968; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   Deposits Obstructing Drainage: It shall be unlawful for any person to
throw, place, deposit or leave, or cause or permit to be thrown, placed,
deposited or left, any object or any accumulation of any matter of any kind in
any street, alley, sidewalk, ditch, culvert, stream, or storm sewer so as to
interfere with or obstruct the drainage of surface water within the City
limits. (Ord. 95, 5-27-1968)
   D.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 95, 5-27-1968; amd. 2008 Code)
7-1-2: DRIVEWAYS AND CURB CUTS; NEW STREET INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Driveways And Curb Cuts:
      1.   Building And Zoning Permit Required: No person shall construct or
maintain an entrance or driveway crossing the curbing or edge of a City street
onto private land without first obtaining a building and zoning permit from the
City.
      2.   Building And Zoning Application; Fee: An application for a building
and zoning permit for a curb cut for an entrance or driveway shall be made in
writing, and shall be accompanied by one or more drawings to show the details
of the proposal. An applicant shall pay an application fee of twenty dollars
($20.00) for such application.
      3.   Conditions Of Building And Zoning Permit: A curb cut building and
zoning permit shall be issued to the applicant promptly after receipt of an
application unless a determination is made that such entrance or driveway
would:
         a.   Create a significant hazard to pedestrians using any sidewalk
intersected thereby; or
         b.   Create a significant traffic hazard; or
         c.   Be more than twenty feet (20') wide; or
         d.   Cause a stormwater drainage problem; or
         e.   Allow for a driveway or paved area covering more than fifteen
percent (15%) of a front yard; or
         f.   Constitute a violation of the zoning ordinance or the standards
set forth in the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
      4.   Issuance Of Building And Zoning Permit: The building official shall
be responsible for issuance or denial of any building and zoning permit.
      5.   Interfering With Stormwater Drainage Prohibited: No entrance or
driveway shall be constructed or maintained over a drainage ditch without
taking precautions not to disrupt the flow of stormwater. Whenever the building
inspector determines that an existing entrance or driveway is disrupting the
flow of stormwater, the property owner shall be given notice and ordered to
make repairs within a reasonable time so as to eliminate such drainage problem.
      6.   Restoration Of Damaged Right-Of-Way: Any portion of the City right-
of-way that is damaged or disturbed by a curb cut shall be repaired or restored
to the satisfaction of the City.
   B.   New Street Intersections: The intersection of all new public streets,
whether owned by the City or otherwise, which are to intersect with an existing
street shall fully conform to the land subdivision control ordinance.
   C.   Engineering Advice: The building official may seek and obtain
professional advice from the City Engineer in connection with the issuance or
denial of any permit under this section.
   D.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, with each day upon which a violation occurs or continues to
be viewed as a separate violation. Additionally, the City may defer acting on
the request for any type of license or permit sought by the same applicant
until such time as the situation giving rise to a violation is resolved. (Ord.
417, 3-28-2017)
7-1-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES ON CITY STREETS:
   A.   It shall be deemed a violation of this section punishable as a Class C
violation in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code, to engage in the following acts:
      1.   Operating a motor vehicle with no registration as required by State
law.
      2.   Improper display of registration through the use of tinting or other
obstruction to line of sight as provided by the Illinois Vehicle Code as now or
hereafter amended.
      3.   Failing to come to a complete and full stop at a crosswalk where
stops are required.
      4.   Operating a vehicle with either music or mufflers able to be heard,
in the case of music, from more than seventy five feet (75') away and in the
case of mufflers louder than those installed by the original vehicle
manufacturer.
      5.   Parking a motor vehicle on the streets of Leland Grove with a
registration which is expired and has been expired for a period equal to or in
excess of thirty (30) days.
      6.   Operating a motor vehicle while texting messages or otherwise
utilizing in violation of State law prohibiting other than hands free use of
cellular devices.
      7.   Operating a vehicle with windows tinted in violation of State law
including but not limited to after-market application to the windshield or
driver or front passenger door windows as provided by the Illinois Vehicle Code
as now or hereafter amended. (Ord. 421, 2-27-2018)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Emergencies Exempt
7-2-2: Application For Permit
7-2-3: Restoration Costs Estimated
7-2-4: Liability Insurance Or Bond
7-2-5: Deposit And Fee
7-2-6: Major Changes Or Improvements To Utility Systems
7-2-7: Restoration Of Excavated Area
7-2-8: Additional Charges Or Refunds
7-2-9: Penalties
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; EMERGENCIES EXEMPT:
   A.   Except in cases of emergency, no person or entity shall open, damage,
tear up, make any excavation in, or bore under any street, alley, public
sidewalk, or other public ground within the city without a contract with the
city or without first obtaining a written permit from the city clerk. (Ord.
298, 4-25-1995)
   B.   Under this chapter, an "emergency" shall exist if breakage or
malfunction of a water or natural gas main or pipe, sanitary sewer or
electrical or telephone wire or conductor disrupts service and requires the
immediate opening of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground. In
such emergency, the utility company responsible for such service may proceed to
make necessary repairs without first obtaining a permit, but shall give verbal
and written notice of such emergency repairs, as soon as possible, to the city
police department, to the city administrator, or to the city engineer. The
disruption of cable television service shall not be considered an emergency
under this chapter. Any work beyond that needed to restore disrupted service
shall be done only after obtaining a permit and otherwise complying with this
chapter. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995; amd. 2008 Code)
7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Except for work exempt under subsection
7-2-1B of this chapter, a written application shall be made for any permit,
which application shall be made in duplicate. No specific form must be used for
the application, but it must state the nature and extent of the work sought to
be performed. The application must be accompanied by a plat, tracing, sketch or
drawing showing the location, character and dimensions of the proposed opening
(s), including, but not limited to, alterations involving changes in the
location of pipes, conduits, wires or conductors. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995)
7-2-3: RESTORATION COSTS ESTIMATED:
Before a permit is issued, the city engineer shall estimate the cost of
restoration of any excavation. Such estimate shall include: a) the cost of
restoring the opening(s) in each such street, alley, public sidewalk or other
public ground to a condition as good as before the opening is made; and b) an
additional sum as margin for contingent damage to city property. The city
engineer shall advise the city clerk of the amount of the estimate. (Ord. 298,
4-25-1995)
7-2-4: LIABILITY INSURANCE OR BOND:
Before a permit is issued, the permit applicant shall supply a certificate of
insurance, a general liability insurance policy, or a surety bond, issued by a
company authorized to do business in Illinois. The limits for any such
insurance shall be not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for injury
to each person, and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for injury to all
persons in each accident, and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for property
damage claims. Further, such certificate or policy shall name the city as an
additional insured and shall covenant to defend and indemnify the city against
all claims arising from the excavation(s) or other work to be performed by or
for the permit holder. Alternately, a surety bond shall covenant that the
permit holder or surety will indemnify the city for any defense costs and for
damages recovered from the city arising from the excavation(s) or other work to
be performed by or for the permit holder. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995)
7-2-5: DEPOSIT AND FEE:
   A.   Payment Required; Fee Amounts: Before a permit is issued, the permit
applicant shall make a payment which shall consist of a refundable deposit in
the amount of the city engineer's estimate and a nonrefundable fee based on the
following schedule:
 
Streets or alleys constructed of a Portland cement,        $150.00 per opening
concrete or bituminous concrete surface
Streets or alleys constructed of a bituminous surface      100.00 per opening
treatment
Streets or alleys constructed of an earthen surface or an  50.00 per opening
aggregate surface
Sidewalks                                                  25.00 per opening
Excavations parallel to or along any street or alley,
extending diagonally into, through, or across any street   500.00
or alley
For excavations in the course of a major change or improvement, the fee
structure under section
7-2-6 of this chapter shall apply.
 
   B.   Refunds: The permit applicant's payment shall be promptly delivered to
the city treasurer, who shall not be required to hold it in an interest bearing
account. The refundable portion of any such payment shall be refunded to a
permit holder only after the city engineer determines that the surface has been
restored to a condition equal to or better than what existed prior to
excavation. If the restoration is unsatisfactory or is not completed within a
reasonable time, the refundable portion of such payment shall be applied to
such restoration. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995)
7-2-6: MAJOR CHANGES OR IMPROVEMENTS TO UTILITY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Definitions:
    MAJOR CHANGE OR IMPROVEMENT TO A UTILITY DELIVERY SYSTEM: One where the
cost of labor and materials exceeds twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), or
one which directly affects more than ten (10) residences or customers in the
city.
   UTILITY COMPANY: Includes Central Illinois Light Company; city water, light
and power; Springfield Metro sanitary district; Ameritech and Times-Mirror
Cable Television of Springfield; or any successor company.
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencing work on any major change or
improvement of a utility system within the city, the utility company proposing
such work shall obtain a permit. To do so, that utility company shall notify
the city engineer of the scope and type of work to be performed. Notice from
the utility shall be in the form of plans, in duplicate, delivered to the city
engineer.
   C.   Insurance Or Bond, Deposit Required:
      1.   Simultaneously with the delivery of plans to the city engineer, the
utility company proposing such work shall provide insurance or bond in
accordance with section
7-2-4 of this chapter, and shall pay a deposit of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), unless that amount is reduced or waived by the city engineer,
based upon the city engineer's opinion that a lesser amount will adequately
cover the expenses listed below.
      2.   Any deposit paid under this section shall be used to pay the
reasonable expenses incurred by the city as a result of a utility company's
major change or improvement, including:
         a.   The city engineer's review of the plans.
         b.   The city engineer's field check of the plans.
         c.   The city engineer's review, during construction, of:
            (1)   Interferences with streets, drainage, other utilities or
neighboring property;
            (2)   Restoration of roadway, turf or other surface; and
            (3)   Repairs to any city property damaged by the utility company,
its contractors or agents.
      3.   The deposit shall be paid to the city engineer, who shall forward it
to the city treasurer, who shall hold it in a separate, interest bearing
account. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995)
7-2-7: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA:
   A.   Restoration Required: The permit holder shall promptly restore such
street, alley, public sidewalk or other public ground to a condition equal to
or better than what existed prior to excavation. Upon completion of such
restoration, the permit holder shall notify the city administrator or the city
engineer. In turn, the city engineer shall promptly inspect the restoration and
shall report to the city administrator whether or not the restoration is
satisfactory. In the event the city engineer finds the restoration to be
satisfactory, the city administrator shall advise the city treasurer to refund
any remaining payment or deposit. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Trench Backfill: Any permit holder shall replace the earth removed from
the surfaced roadway and for a distance of two feet (2') on each side of the
surfaced roadway or sidewalk with trench backfill. "Trench backfill" shall
consist of filling such excavation, within the limits prescribed, with fine
aggregate consisting of sand, stone sand, stone screenings or chats conforming
to the following requirements:
      1.   Graduation of fine aggregate shall be uniform grades, and when
tested by laboratory sieves, shall conform to the following limits:
 
Passing 3/8 inch sieve                                      100 percent
Passing no. 4 sieve                                         85 to 100 percent
Passing no. 100 sieve                                       0 to 30 percent
Amount of material passing through no. 200 sieve shall not  10 percent
exceed
 
      2.   Surplus earth removed from such excavation and replaced with trench
backfill shall not be allowed to remain in the street or other public grounds,
either during the work or after completion of trench backfilling.
      3.   Placement and compaction of the trench backfill shall be in
conformance with the latest revision of "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", promulgated by the Illinois department of transportation.
(Ord. 298, 4-25-1995)
7-2-8: ADDITIONAL CHARGES OR REFUNDS:
The amount of the payment in section
7-2-5 of this chapter shall not limit the liability of a permit holder, and the
amount of the deposit paid under section
7-2-6 of this chapter shall not limit the liability of a utility company doing
major changes or improvements. Each, together with its contractors or agents,
shall remain liable for any surface restoration expenses or for damages
exceeding the refundable portion of the payment in section
7-2-5 of this chapter or the deposit in section
7-2-6 of this chapter. Conversely, any balance remaining after the payment of
all expenses or damages from the refundable portion of the payment in section
7-2-5 of this chapter shall be refunded to the permit holder. Any balance of
the deposit in section
7-2-6 of this chapter remaining after the payment of all expenses or damages,
together with interest on such balance, shall be refunded to the utility
company upon completion of any major change or improvement. (Ord. 298, 4-25-
1995)
7-2-9: PENALTIES:
A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed to have occurred each
day that any violation of this chapter takes place or continues. Any person or
entity in violation of this chapter shall be required to halt further work, and
failure to so halt work shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code per day for each day work continues after notice to halt is
given by the city. (Ord. 298, 4-25-1995; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required
7-3-2: Plans And Fee; Issuance Of Permit
7-3-3: Design And Construction Requirements
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No bridge shall be built on any public or private land within the city unless a
permit therefor has first been issued by the city clerk. (Ord. 114, 3-22-1971)
7-3-2: PLANS AND FEE; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Any person seeking a permit for construction of a bridge shall submit plans for
such bridge, prepared by a qualified engineer, to the city clerk, together with
a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). The city clerk shall refer the plans for
such bridge to the city engineer, and upon approval of the plans by the city
engineer, the permit shall issue. (Ord. 114, 3-22-1971)
7-3-3: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All Bridges:
      1.   The design of all bridges shall conform to the "Standard
Specifications For Highway Bridges" adopted by the American Association of
State Highway Officials, current edition. (Ord. 114, 3-22-1971)
      2.   The materials and construction of all bridges shall conform to the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" adopted by the state
department of transportation, current edition, and all amendments thereto.
      3.   The required waterway opening of any bridge shall conform to the
specifications adopted by the Illinois department of transportation.
   B.   Bridges Used By Motor Vehicles:
      1.   Any bridge constructed for use by motor vehicle traffic within the
city shall conform to the following loading specifications adopted by the state
department of transportation: (Ord. 114, 3-22-1971; amd. 2008 Code)
         a.   HS-20 loading for bridges on through arterial streets.
         b.   HS-15 loading for bridges on other streets which are not through
streets or arterial streets and bridges on private lands which are dead end
thoroughfares and which may be used by motor vehicle traffic traveling to land
other than the land owned by the owner of the land on which the bridge or any
part thereof is located.
         c.   HS-10 loading for bridges used only as a private entrance or
driveway to one household.
      2.   The loading requirements described in subsection B1 of this section
shall not apply to bridges for use only by persons traveling on foot or by
bicycle. (Ord. 114, 3-22-1971)
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose And Scope
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Annual Registration Required
7-4-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
7-4-5: Action On Permit Applications
7-4-6: Effect Of Permit
7-4-7: Revised Permit Drawings
7-4-8: Insurance
7-4-9: Indemnification
7-4-10: Security
7-4-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-4-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
7-4-13: General Construction Standards
7-4-14: Traffic Control
7-4-15: Location Of Facilities
7-4-16: Construction Methods And Materials
7-4-17: Vegetation Control
7-4-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-4-19: Clean-Up And Restoration
7-4-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
7-4-21: Variances
7-4-22: Penalties
7-4-23: Enforcement
7-4-24: Severability
7-4-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the City's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the City
rights-of-way and the City as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the City intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the City and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
City's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the City's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the City. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The City, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the City
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the City enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the City may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the City, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the City and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The City shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the City so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the City
to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code section 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The City of Leland Grove, Illinois.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non- recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Leland Grove, Illinois.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right-of- way lines of a
right-of-way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The City Director of Public Works and/or the City
Administrator or his or her designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right- of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The City Engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the City.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
City Director of Public Works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois Highway Code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and Video
Competition Law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois Commerce Commission.
IDOT: Illinois Department of Transportation.
JULIE: The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of- way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right-of-way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
7-4-4 and
7-4-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the City. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, State or Federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT-OF-WAY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the City has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the City. "Right-of-way" or "rights-of-way" shall not include any
real or personal City property that is not specifically described in the
previous sentence and shall not include City buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right-of-way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
7-4-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two- way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 USC sections 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended,
or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee
payable to the City through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the
Federal Communications Commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Means any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 428, 7-24-
2018)
7-4-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the City shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in section
7-4-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 428, 7-
24-2018)
7-4-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any City
right-of-way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the right- of-way, without
first filing an application with the City Director of Public Works and
obtaining a permit from the City therefor, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter. No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the City and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the City may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the City:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the City and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
subsection unless the City finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
7-4-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in section
7-4-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
7-4-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
City.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District (other local or State entities with jurisdiction), have been
satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the City within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee. No application fee is required to be paid by any
electricity utility that is paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure
maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the City Director
of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the City Director of Public Works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the City Director of
Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the City Director of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the City Director of Public Works, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the City
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the City not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The City Director
of Public Works shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the City Director of Public Works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the City by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the City, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
7-4-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the City
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a State-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the City, unless otherwise acted upon by the City, provided
the holder has complied with applicable City codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the City authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on City rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Pre-Construction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction meeting shall be
held at a date, time and place designated by the City with such City
representatives in attendance as the City deems necessary. The meeting shall be
for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing special
considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without
limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and
their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the City
does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the
City and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations. (Ord.
428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the City within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
7-4-21 of this chapter. If the City denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the City, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1
and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the City within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the City.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City Mayor of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the City of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the City evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the City evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection
A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self
insurer" under the Workers Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the City and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.) (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the City and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the City, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the City occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the City issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the City may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the City must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the City from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the City in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the City, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
City. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this subsection
shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
City and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the City of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the City and within the State
of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the City Director of Public Works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the City estimates are likely
to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the City, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the City Director of
Public Works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The City, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the City for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the City for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the City has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the City
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the City that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund,
the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the City,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the City, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the City for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the City to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the City as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the City with respect to the
Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the City, whether reserved
by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect any other
right the City may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall not be
entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which
may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   City Right To Revoke Permit: The City may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The City shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the City, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the City with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the City, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the City within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the City providing written proof of such removal to the
City within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The City may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the City may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of this
section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the City or its
designee may, at the option of the City: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon
not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to
the permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the City. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the City
for all costs of removal. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the City no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the City's right-of-
way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 428, 7-24-
2018)
7-4-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of-way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      2.   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      3.   Highway Design Manual;
      4.   Highway Standards Manual;
      5.   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      6.   Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   Flagger's Handbook; and
      8.   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the City Director of Public Works shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the City Director of Public Works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The City's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
7-4-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the City. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With City Facilities: No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the City Director of Public Works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
City's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the City's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way line
and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right-of-way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of City highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right- of-
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The City may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The City may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The City may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      2.   The City may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Above Ground: Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The City may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 428,
7-24-2018)
7-4-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the City
Director of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the City to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the City Director of Public Works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the City to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Director of Public Works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
Director of Public Works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
7-4-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Director of Public Works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the City.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
City.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or City approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the City. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                      Minimum Cover
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 City)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within City rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines", and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed.
Variances may be allowed if there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires
are equipped with guy guards for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the City. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a City approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192 - Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Director of Public Works. With the approval of
the Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation- free area. The housing for ground-mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right-Of-Way: No material shall be stored on the
right-of-way without the prior written approval of the City Director of Public
Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of- way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right-of- way, prior approval must be
obtained from the City.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the City
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the City, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Director of Public Works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the City, the hours of construction
are those between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the City shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The City will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the City or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois Underground Utility Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 .
(Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-4-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities - Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the City as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities - Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right- of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The City will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The City may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The City may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the City for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the City,
a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any City improvement in or upon, or the operations of the City in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the City, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The City retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the City, as the City may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the Municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the City, the utility shall notify the City within ninety (90)
days. Following receipt of such notice the City may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the City Director of Public Works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the City does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
City, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-19: CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights-of-way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the City. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the City Director of Public Works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the City Director of Public Works for good cause shown. (Ord. 428,
7-24-2018)
7-4-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the City and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the City police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the City a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the City Director of
Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The City Director of Public Works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The City Director of Public Works
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Director of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the City Council, or such other board or commission as it
may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
City Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the City will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the City's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit related
cost apportionment of the City. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the City may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
428, 7-24-2018)
7-4-24: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 428, 7-24-2018)
CHAPTER 5
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose And Scope
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
7-5-4: Dispute Resolution
7-5-5: Indemnification
7-5-6: Insurance
7-5-7: Severability
7-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within Leland Grove's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by Leland Grove exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 427, 7-24-2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to Leland Grove for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.I.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by Leland Grove
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated or located in Leland
Grove in public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by Leland Grove to perform an action
or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to Leland Grove.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
427, 7-24-2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
7-5-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
Leland Grove to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to Leland Grove, together with Leland Grove's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than Leland Grove, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: Leland Grove shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if Leland Grove fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify
Leland Grove in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy
no sooner than seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed
application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by Leland Grove. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude Leland Grove's denial of the permit request within
the time limits as provided under this section.
         c.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if Leland Grove fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission
of a completed application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify
Leland Grove in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy
no sooner than one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed
application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by Leland Grove. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude Leland Grove's denial of the permit request within
the time limits as provided under this section.
         d.   Leland Grove shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this section.
If Leland Grove determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations
that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions
contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be
replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
Leland Grove shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific Code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day Leland Grove denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by Leland Grove and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. Leland
Grove shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of Leland Grove's review period.
The applicant must notify Leland Grove in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Within thirty (30) days after an approved permit to collocate a
small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, Leland Grove and the
applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement, provided by
Leland Grove for the initial collocation on a Municipal utility pole by the
application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless
facility on a Municipal utility pole, Leland Grove and the applicant shall
enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, Leland Grove shall determine whether the application is
complete and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, Leland
Grove must specifically identify the missing information. An application shall
be deemed complete if Leland Grove fails to provide notification to the
applicant within thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees
specifically enumerated in Leland Grove's permit application form are submitted
by the applicant to Leland Grove.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time Leland Grove sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and Leland
Grove; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of Leland Grove shall be allowed,
at the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, Leland Grove may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. Leland Grove may issue separate permits for each
collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless Leland Grove makes a finding that the small wireless
facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the
applicable City codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in
this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to Leland Grove by personal
delivery at Leland Grove's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: Leland Grove may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for Leland Grove's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless Leland Grove reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
Leland Grove may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Electric Transmission Poles: The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an
electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on Leland Grove utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Public Safety: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local Code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by Leland Grove, a comprehensive
plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the
rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
Leland Grove may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by Leland Grove, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to Leland Grove, that is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of Leland Grove, provided Leland Grove may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit, variance or administrative waiver in
conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set forth in title 9 of this
Code.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between Leland Grove and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local Code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless Leland Grove and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless Leland Grove grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   Leland Grove shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the right- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies Leland Grove at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from Leland Grove to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
Leland Grove or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between Leland Grove and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on Leland Grove's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to Leland Grove before June 1, 2018, subject
to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with Leland Grove on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that Leland
Grove makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying Leland Grove
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on Leland Grove's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to Leland Grove before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to Leland Grove an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on Leland Grove utility pole.
If Leland Grove has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from Leland Grove notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by Leland Grove to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, Leland Grove may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to Leland Grove if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of Leland Grove.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 427, 7-24-2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
7-5-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Sangamon County, Illinois shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, Leland Grove shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
year per Municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final
resolution of the dispute. (Ord. 427, 7-24-2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
7-5-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold Leland Grove harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of Leland
Grove improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of
Leland Grove or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further
waive any claims that they may have against Leland Grove with respect to
consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the
theory of liability. (Ord. 427, 7-24-2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
7-5-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on Leland Grove improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of City improvements or
rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include Leland Grove as an additional insured on
the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of Leland Grove in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by Leland Grove. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to Leland Grove
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage limits required by Leland Grove. (Ord. 427, 7-24-2018, eff.
9-1-2018)
7-5-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each invalid
provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable. (Ord. 427, 7-24-
2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
TITLE 8
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Code
8-1-2: Building And Zoning Permits And Fees
8-1-3: Contractor Registration
8-1-4: Inspection
8-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The International Building Code, 2006 edition, and all
amendments thereto, and the International Residential Code, 2006 edition, both
published by the International Code Council, Inc., are hereby adopted by
reference as and for the building code of the City, pursuant to the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-1 et seq.; provided, that any reference
in said codes to the "building official" shall be read as meaning the Building
Official of the City or its designee; and provided further, that in the event
any of the provisions of said codes are in conflict with State law or with any
other ordinance of the City, the State law or other City ordinance shall
prevail. In addition the following codes as utilized by the Sangamon County
Department of Public Health are adopted by reference: 1997 Illinois
Accessibility Code or the most current edition by State statute; 2004 Illinois
Plumbing Code or the most current edition by statute; 2005 National Electrical
Code; 2009 International Energy Conservation Code.
   B.   Copies On File: Upon the effective date hereof, three (3) copies of
said codes are on file in the Office of the City Clerk for use and examination
by the public, and at least one (1) copy shall be kept on file in the Office of
the Building Official for public inspection.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
the codes adopted by this section shall be subject to a Class B violation and
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day any violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
8-1-2: BUILDING AND ZONING PERMITS AND FEES:
   A.   Building And Zoning Permit Required: Any person, prior to beginning
work on any of the items listed below, shall obtain a building and zoning
permit from the City Administrator.
      1.   New structures, changing the footprint or roof profile of any
structure; and/or
      2.   New driveways, sidewalks, retaining walls with exposed face of
twenty inches (20") high, swimming pools, outdoor kitchens, built in
fireplaces, or fences more than twenty inches (20") high measuring from the
ground; or changing the footprint or height of any of these listed items; and/
or
      3.   Any construction, modification, maintenance or repair that requires
installation or relocation of water lines, electrical lines, or sewer lines; or
that results in changes to the framing, support or foundation of exterior or
load bearing walls of a structure; and/or
      4.   Any work on City right-of-way.
      5.   Structures are defined under section
9-1-2, "Definitions", of this Code.
   B.   Fees: The fees to be paid for each permit are as follows:
      1.   Demolition permit: Seventy five dollars ($75.00). This includes
partial and entire demolition projects.
      2.   Building and zoning permit: Seventy five dollars ($75.00).
      3.   Other fees: As established by City Council and administrative order.
   C.   Fees Separate: Building and zoning permit fees are separate and
distinct from the inspection fees. Issuance of a building and zoning permit
does not exempt the property owner from compliance with Federal, State and
local laws, to include the City's building and zoning regulations.
   D.   Exemptions From Building And Zoning Permit: A building and zoning
permit is not required for minor repairs, maintenance, or other minor work.
   E.   Eligibility For Building And Zoning Permit: A building and zoning
permit shall not be issued to any person other than the owner or owners of the
real estate on which a building is to be constructed or remodeled, except the
contractor, as agent for the owners, may apply for or be issued a building and
zoning permit. A building and zoning permit shall not be issued to a contract
purchaser of real estate unless the owner or owners of the real estate join in
the application.
   F.   Required Documents:
      1.   All applications or requests for building and zoning permits shall
be accompanied by a drawing, preferably drafted to scale, showing the location
on the lot of the building or addition to a building, all applicable setback
lines, lot dimensions, and angles.
      2.   All requests or applications for building and zoning permits shall
be accompanied by building plans properly dimensioned and detailed, with
structural elements designated.
      3.   All applications and requests for building and zoning permits for
any new building or any addition to an existing building involving the
remodeling or installation of new plumbing, heating, ventilation, air
conditioning, or electrical systems shall be accompanied by a properly drafted
plan of the system involved, giving types of materials, unit capacities, wire
sizes, and breaker size service entrances.
      4.   An estimate of the anticipated cost of construction shall accompany
each request or application for a building and zoning permit.
      5.   Any and all contractors doing work within the City on projects that
require a building and zoning permit shall register with the City providing
documentation of license (as applicable by Federal, State or County
requirements), and proof of insurance in an appropriate amount, to include
liability, auto and workers compensation insurance. The registration shall be
valid for one (1) calendar year.
      6.   All of the documents required above to accompany a request or
application for a building and zoning permit shall remain on file with the
Building Official. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
8-1-3: CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration: Each contractor doing work within the City on projects
that require permits shall register with the City Administrator before doing
business within the City. A registration is valid for one (1) year from the
date of issuance. There shall be a registration fee of fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each contractor.
   B.   Exemption From Registration: Any person acting within the scope of his
or her employment with a public utility or with the City is exempt from
registration.
   C.   Violations; Penalty: A person who violates this section is subject to a
penalty for each violation. A violation with respect to any single job
constitutes a separate violation. For example, a contractor who works on a roof
one (1) day and comes back the second day to work on the roof without having
registered commits two (2) separate violations. More than three (3) violations
invalidates contractor from working in the City on any project for one (1)
year. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
8-1-4: INSPECTION:
   A.   The person receiving the building and zoning permit shall be
responsible to obtain any necessary inspections of the proposed construction.
The City will provide a system of inspections and enforcement of residential
building codes by Sangamon County. The owner shall be responsible for all
inspection costs. At a minimum, inspection shall be made at the following
stages of construction:
      1.   Setback inspection.
      2.   Footings. Footings must be inspected prior to pouring.
      3.   Plumbing ground work. Ground work installations must be inspected
prior to pouring.
      4.   Rough-in; plumbing, electrical and mechanical. These inspections
will be made after all internal and external electrical, mechanical and
plumbing work has been roughed-in and prior to installing drywall or other
surface.
      5.   Framing. This inspection shall be made prior to installing drywall
or other surface.
      6.   Electrical service.
      7.   Recommended final/certificate of occupancy, which shall be subject
to final review and approval.
   B.   The following types of work will require inspection:
      1.   New structures.
      2.   Changing the footprint or roof profile of any structure.
      3.   Construction, modification, maintenance or repair that requires
installation or relocation of water lines, electrical lines, or sewer lines; or
that results in changes to the framing, support or foundation of exterior or
load bearing walls of a structure. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
CHAPTER 2
PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definition
8-2-2: Fence And Barrier Requirements
8-2-3: Access To Aboveground Pools
8-2-4: Compliance With Provisions
8-2-5: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITION:
A "private residential swimming pool" is hereby defined as any receptacle or
containment for water, or any artificial pool of water having a depth of more
than twenty four inches (24") in any area of more than twenty five (25) square
feet, or containing or being capable of containing more than two hundred (200)
gallons of water intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion of
persons, and including all appurtenant equipment constructed, installed and
maintained in or above the ground outside of a building used for a dwelling
unit. The term "private residential swimming pool" includes hot tubs and spas.
(Ord. 174, 10-22-1979; amd. Ord. 296, 3-27-1995)
8-2-2: FENCE AND BARRIER REQUIREMENTS:
All outdoor private residential swimming pools, except those pools having walls
extending forty two inches (42") high or higher, above ground level, shall be
completely enclosed by a fence, wall or other effective barrier. All openings
in a fence, wall or other barrier shall be equipped with a gate. The required
fence, wall or gate(s) must be at least four feet (4') high, measured on the
inside and the outside, and shall not provide ready footing for climbing. All
gates shall be self-closing or self-latching, and shall be locked when the pool
is not in use. The device for operating the gate's self-closing or self-
latching mechanism shall be located at least forty two inches (42") above the
bottom of the gate. No opening in the fence, wall, gate or other barrier shall
exceed three inches (3") in width. No opening at the bottom of the fence, wall,
gate or other barrier shall exceed three inches (3") in height. A rigid cover,
when used with a hot tub or spa, shall be an acceptable substitute for a fence,
wall or other barrier. (Ord. 296, 3-27-1995; amd. 2008 Code)
8-2-3: ACCESS TO ABOVEGROUND POOLS:
   A.   All private residential swimming pools extending above the ground grade
level shall have means of egress in the form of one or more ladders or sets of
steps, which shall be removed when the pool is not in use. (Ord. 174, 10-22-
1979)
   B.   If an aboveground grade level private residential swimming pool is
surrounded or partially surrounded by a deck, the access to that deck shall be
limited in the same manner required under section
8-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 296, 3-27-1995)
8-2-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install or enlarge any private
residential swimming pool in the city except in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 174, 10-22-1979)
8-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 174, 10-22-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Authority And Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Duties Of City Administrator
8-3-4: Base Flood Elevation
8-3-5: Development Permit
8-3-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
8-3-7: Protecting Buildings
8-3-8: Subdivision And Other Development Requirements
8-3-9: Public Health And Other Standards
8-3-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
8-3-11: Variances
8-3-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
8-3-13: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-3-14: Violations; Penalties
8-3-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the City by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-
31-2 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   D.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   E.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   F.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
8-3-4 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure that is principally above ground,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The City Administrator, his/her designee or such other
person as may be designated by the City Council.
CRITICAL FACILITY:
   A.   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
   B.   Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations); schools; hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities;
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers) and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
      1.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building.
      2.   Substantial improvement of an existing building.
      3.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects.
      4.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences.
      5.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface.
      6.   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION CERTIFICATE: A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot (1') of freeboard, at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA):
   A.   These two (2) terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the City of Leland Grove, Illinois, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
City of Leland Grove, Illinois, or that may be annexed into the City of Leland
Grove, Illinois, that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the City of Leland Grove, Illinois, are generally identified as
such on Panel Number 243 of the countywide flood insurance rate map of Sangamon
County, Illinois, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
effective August 2, 2007. Floodplain also includes those areas of known
flooding as identified by the community.
   B.   The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Sangamon County,
Illinois, that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of
Leland Grove, Illinois, or that may be annexed into the City of Leland Grove,
Illinois, are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map
prepared for Sangamon County, Illinois, by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated effective August 2, 2007.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduces or eliminates flood damage
to real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Jacksonville Branch shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Sangamon County,
Illinois, prepared by FEMA and dated effective August 2, 2007. The floodways
for each of the remaining floodplains of the City of Leland Grove, Illinois,
shall be according to the best data available from the Federal, State, or other
sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the Historic District or a district preliminarily determined
by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the State Inventory of Historic Places by the
Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water Resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
NFIP: National Flood Insurance Program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date hereof and includes any subsequent improvements of
such structures.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis.
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size.
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of floodplain and special flood hazard area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building and zoning permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, "actual start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the effective date hereof equals
or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss buildings". See definition of repetitive loss.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the effective date hereof in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
      1.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
   B.   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure.
   C.   The term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
   D.   The term does not include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
State or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
required Federal, State, and/or local permits and elevation certification is
presumed to be in violation until such time as the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
8-3-3: DUTIES OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Administrator shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and shall ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the City meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the City Administrator shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
8-3-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
8-3-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
8-3-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the as built elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or the floodproofing certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
8-3-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
8-3-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
8-3-11 of this chapter are met, and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
8-3-14 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, State, and Federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with State and Federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of State and Federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-4: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Jacksonville Branch
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the countywide "Flood
Insurance Study Of Sangamon County, Illinois", prepared by the federal
emergency management agency effective August 2, 2007.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an AH zone
or AO zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
"Flood Insurance Rate Map Of Sangamon County, Illinois".
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A zone on the countywide "Flood Insurance Rate Map Of Sangamon
County, Illinois" shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Sangamon County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the "Flood Insurance Study Of
Sangamon County, Illinois", prepared by the federal emergency management agency
and dated effective August 2, 2007. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not
exempted by law shall commence any development in the floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the city administrator. The city
administrator shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for development permit shall be
accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   C.   Review Of Information; Documentation; Other Data:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the city
administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood
insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The city administrator shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification.
      3.   The city administrator shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit not required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
city administrator shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state,
and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety. The following specific development activities
shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources, statewide permit number 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot (1.0'); and
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a registered professional
engineer in the state of Illinois, and the designs must meet the conditions of
an IDNR/OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second registered professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3: The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier
cells, or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army
corps of engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         a.   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers, including foundation and poles, shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limits established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corp of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6. The following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         a.   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
         b.   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
         c.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
         d.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
         e.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
         f.   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or streambed shall be returned to its original condition.
         b.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1  shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to the materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural
areas, provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 .
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   (1) Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full
width and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
            (2)   For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along
the bank, toe of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the
cross sectional area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent
(10%) nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear
foot of the stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a
flatter slope and to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, and shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         d.   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of, the bank of the stream channel.
         e.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         f.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit. Plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         g.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel; and the cross sectional area of the
dredged channel shall conform to that of the natural channel upstream and
downstream of the site.
         c.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank, provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank, and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee, provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         d.   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         a.   A registered professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure; and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A registered professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
stream bank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
condition existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a registered professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure.
         f.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         g.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         h.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   The permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
8-3-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: In addition to the damage prevention
requirements of section
8-3-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the effective date hereof. If
substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the
flood protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the effective date hereof. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential Or Nonresidential Buildings:
      1.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
         a.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
            (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not
incorporated debris or refuse material, and shall not adversely affect the flow
of surface drainage from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary,
storm water management techniques such as swales or basins shall be
incorporated.
         b.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with
the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts,
piles, walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters;
            (2)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
            (3)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood
protection elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent
opening on each wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of
two (2) openings. The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the base flood elevation; and
            (4)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
               (A)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
               (B)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed;
               (C)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be
used solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied
as habitable space; or
               (D)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to
comply with these requirements may be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect.
         c.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. There shall be a minimum of one opening on each
wall having a total net area of not less than one square inch per one square
foot of enclosed area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above
grade;
            (3)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood
protection elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade;
            (4)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point;
            (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event;
            (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
            (7)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
      2.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         a.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
         b.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
         c.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
         d.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection B2.
   C.   Manufactured Homes Or Travel Trailers: Manufactured homes or travel
trailers to be permanently installed on site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B1 of this section; and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   D.   Travel Trailers And Recreational Vehicles: Travel trailers and
recreational vehicles on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days per
year shall meet the elevation requirements of subsection C of this section
unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement in the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and must either:
         a.   Be entirely be supported by jacks; or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   E.   Garages And Sheds: Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures
constructed ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted, provided
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-8: SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The city shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they are known, in
all official actions related to land management use and development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain. Where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
   B.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
8-3-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation, unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 100-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the city shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship
on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board
of appeals for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the
applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
city council. The city council may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   B.   Standards For Variance Request: No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   C.   Effects And Risks Of Approved Variance: The zoning board of appeals
shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of
the building protection standards of section
8-3-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   D.   Historic Landmarks: Variances to the building protection requirements
of section
8-3-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or "historic structure", as defined in
section
8-3-2 of this chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
8-3-6 and
8-3-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007)
8-3-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city to
fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program. However, this
chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and
other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 353, 3-
27-2007)
8-3-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Determination Of Violation; Notice: Failure to obtain a permit for
development in the floodplain or failure to comply with the conditions of a
permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon
due investigation, the city administrator may determine that a violation of the
minimum standards of this chapter exists. The city administrator shall notify
the owner in writing of such violation.
   B.   Penalties: If such owner fails, after ten (10) days' notice, to correct
the violation:
      1.   The city shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter; (Ord. 353, 3-
27-2007)
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; (Ord. 353, 3-27-2007; amd. 2008 Code)
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      4.   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   C.   Notice Of Possible Insurance Cancellation: The city administrator shall
inform the owner that any such violation is considered a wilful act to increase
flood damages and, therefore, may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance
policy to be suspended.
   D.   Stop Work Order: The city administrator is authorized to issue an order
requiring the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall
be in writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   E.   Hearing On Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         a.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         b.   The time and place of the hearing.
      2.   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning
board of appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   F.   Other Actions: Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 353, 3-27-
2007)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Rules Of Word Construction
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are hereby defined.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall
include the word "structure"; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not
directory. (Ord. 394, 2-25-2014)
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the main building or the main use of the premises. Private detached
garages are considered "accessory buildings".
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords a secondary means of
access to property abutting thereon.
BASEMENT: A story having part or all of its height below grade. A basement
shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of height regulation. A cellar
shall be considered a basement.
BUILDING: Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter or protection of persons, animals, or other property. When a structure
is divided into separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the ground up,
each part is deemed a separate building.
BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT: A building and zoning permit issued by the building
official, which authorizes performance of an activity that is subject to the
City Building Code. The fee schedule for a permit will be established by
ordinance of the City Council from time to time.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the ground grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or
the actual top of the ridgeline for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The City Administrator, his/her designee or such other
person as may be designated by the City Council.
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein goods, merchandise
or other property is exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention,
labor or materials, or where services are offered for compensation.
CARPORT: Any permanent structure, either attached to a building or unattached,
which is open on two (2) or more sides, has a roof, and is of sufficient size
to shelter one or more motor vehicles.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: A business which accommodates patrons' motor vehicles
and in which patrons may be served or may use goods or merchandise sold by such
business.
DRIVEWAY: Any surfaced area connecting a parking space with a street or alley
and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of a motor vehicle.
DRIVEWAY APPROACH: That part of a driveway between the edge of the paved
surface of a street to the front lot line. The "driveway apron" is that part of
the approach closest to the edge of the paved surface of a street.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof, but not a mobile home, trailer or
tent, which is designed or used primarily for residential purposes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building designed as or consisting of more than two (2)
dwelling units, intended for use by more than two (2) families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed as or consisting of one dwelling
unit, intended for use by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed as or consisting of two (2) dwelling
units, intended for use by two (2) families.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or part of a structure, which
are arranged, designed, used or intended as living quarters for one family, and
which includes complete kitchen and bathroom facilities, permanently installed
and not shared with another dwelling unit.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single
housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth, adoption or
marriage; but no unrelated group consisting of more than five (5) persons shall
be considered a family.
FENCE: A barrier more than twenty inches (20") uncovered from the ground
intended to prevent ingress or egress, to mark a boundary, or to create a sense
of privacy or security. An ornamental wall shall be considered a fence.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE: A building housing motor vehicles (whether attached to or detached from
the main building), which is the property of and for the private use of the
occupants of the lot on which the private garage is located. All garages shall
be limited to no more than forty percent (40%) of the living space. An open
sided garage, commonly known as a carport, shall be considered a garage for the
purpose of this title.
GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: Any building or premises, except that used as a private
garage, used for equipping, repairing, leasing, selling or storing motor
vehicles.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation, profession, avocation or hobby, whether or not
for profit, carried on in a residential district.
HOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms, a general kitchen and dining room,
a common entrance lobby, and halls, stairways or elevators, where each lodging
room does not have a doorway opening to the outdoors, in which lodging is
provided and offered to the public for compensation, and which is open to
transient guests, as opposed to a boarding house or lodging house.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
organization for public use.
LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped regularly to provide lodging) by prearrangement for a definite period,
for compensation, for three (3) or more, but not exceeding twelve (12),
individuals, not open to transient guests, in contradistinction to hotels or
motels open to transients. A boarding house shall be synonymous with a lodging
house.
LOT: A parcel of land, whether as described on a plat of subdivision or further
divided, which is occupied or intended for occupancy by one principal building
or one principal use permitted in this title, together with accessory
buildings, and together with yards and parking spaces required by this title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) streets at their intersection. Please
note that both abutting sides are considered frontage.
LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets,
as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT LINE: The dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and the
contiguous street, alley, or adjacent lots, tracts or parcels of land.
   A.   The "front lot line" is the front City right- of-way line. On corner
lots, the front lot line is that which faces the front door or wall of the
existing building, or when there is no existing building, the shorter street
line.
   B.   The "rear lot line" is the lot line most nearly parallel to the front
lot line.
   C.   Other lines are "side lot lines".
MOTEL: A building containing lodging rooms, where each lodging room has a
doorway opening to the outdoors, or other than a common entrance, in which
lodging is provided and offered to the public for compensation, and which is
open to transient guests, as opposed to a boarding house or lodging house.
NONCOMPLYING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any lawful building or other structure,
which does not conform to the applicable bulk regulations of the City either on
the effective date hereof, or as a result of a subsequent amendment thereto.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any lawful use of a building or other structure or a tract
of land which does not conform to the applicable use regulations of the City
either on the effective date hereof, or as a result of a subsequent amendment
thereto.
PARKING SPACE: An area for the parking of motor vehicles and other conveyances,
sized, located and surfaced in compliance with the requirements of this title.
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS: Businesses or offices wherein services are offered for
compensation, and where the sale of goods or merchandise is incidental to the
main activity.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a business, goods,
merchandise, commodity, or service not sold or offered upon the premises where
such sign is erected or in the structure upon which it is affixed.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a cellar or basement, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or,
if there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall space not more than three feet (3') above the top floor
level, and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area
is finished for use.
STREET: All property used, dedicated or intended for public or private street
or roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground, including, but not limited to, houses, garages, sheds, fences,
decks, patios, pergolas, arbors, trellises, porches, roofs, ornamental walls,
outdoor kitchens/fireplaces and canopies.
TRAILER: A vehicle or portable structure built on a chassis, designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use, and customarily
towed behind a motor vehicle. A self-propelled trailer, commonly called a motor
home, shall be considered a trailer for purposes of this title. A camper,
customarily designed for mounting upon the bed of a pickup truck, shall also be
considered a trailer for purposes of this title. Boat and utility trailers are
included herein.
TRELLIS:
   A.   A structure or frame of latticework used as a screen or as a support
for climbing plants,
   B.   A construction chiefly or wholly of latticework,
   C.   An arrangement that forms or gives the effect of a lattice.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by a portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of the front yard, or the depth of a rear
yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line, as platted, and the
main building shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot, and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the front lot line and the main building or any
projection thereof other than the projection of the usual steps.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot between side lot lines,
and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the
rear of the main building or any projections other than steps. On corner lots,
the rear yard shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot
has its lesser dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard
shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard and
shall be as set out in subsection
9-3-8B of this title.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front yard line to the rear yard line. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017;
amd. Ord. 424, 1-23-2018)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Zoning Official
9-2-2: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-2-3: Variations And Special Uses
9-2-4: Lapse Of Building And Zoning Permit
9-2-5: Amendments
9-2-6: Appeals
9-2-7: Fees
9-2-8: Separability
9-2-9: Penalties
9-2-1: ZONING OFFICIAL:
All questions of the application of the terms of this title shall first be
directed to the Alderman or other person selected by the Mayor, with the
consent of the City Council, who shall act as the Zoning Official. It shall be
the duty of the Zoning Official to enforce this title and amendments hereto.
Appeals from the Zoning Official shall be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
All building and zoning applications shall be obtained from the Zoning Official
and returned to the Zoning Official for processing. The Zoning Official shall:
   A.   Review all applications for building and zoning permits and maintain
records thereof and direct the applicant to apply to Sangamon County for
necessary inspections and permits after initial zoning review.
   B.   Establish and administer rules and regulations for proceedings,
together with regular forms for such proceedings, for processing variances, and
for recording those matters and things required by this chapter to be recorded,
and collect fees as may be required by this title.
   C.   Receive and file copies of all applications for variances on which the
Zoning Board of Appeals is required to pass under this title.
   D.   Maintain a record of all variances granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   E.   Make available to the public information relative to all matters
arising out of this title and post all public notices called for in this title.
(Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-2-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Subsequent to the effective date hereof, no change in the use of land nor any
change of use of an existing building shall be made, nor shall any new building
be occupied for any purpose, until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Zoning Official. Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the new
occupancy complies with all provisions of this title. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued until the erection, construction or alteration, based
on a valid building and zoning permit, has been completed, inspected and
approved by the Zoning Official, and no building shall be occupied until such
certificate is issued. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept
on file in the Office of the City Clerk, and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in land or in a
building affected by such certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-2-3: VARIATIONS AND SPECIAL USES:
The following rules shall govern the practice in zoning cases before the City
Council or the Zoning Board of Appeals whenever a variation in the application
of the regulations contained in this title or amendments hereto, or a special
use permit is desired: (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
   A.   Petition For Variation Or Special Use: The person desiring a variation
in the application of the regulations contained in this title or amendments
hereto, or desiring a special use permit, must be an owner or contract
purchaser and shall file with the Zoning Official a petition describing the
variation or special use sought. The petition must include the names and
addresses of the owners of all parcels of land that abut the land for which a
variance or permit is sought. For this purpose, the names and addresses used
for the most recent tax bills on such abutting land shall be sufficient.
   B.   Petition Transmitted To City Officials: The Zoning Official shall
transmit the petition to the City Clerk and to the members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals for hearing. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
   C.   Standards For Variations: The Zoning Board of Appeals may vary the
application of this title in cases where there are practical difficulties or
particular hardships in carrying out the strict letter of any of those
regulations relating to the use, the construction or alteration of buildings or
structures, or the use of land. In its consideration of the standards of
practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall require evidence that: 1) the property in question cannot yield a
reasonable return if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by
this title; and 2) the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
3) the variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality. A variation will be granted only if the evidence sustains each of the
three (3) conditions enumerated. Every variation granted or denied by the Board
shall be made by written order, which shall contain findings of fact specifying
the reasons for such decision, a copy of which order shall be furnished to the
applicant. The Zoning Official shall furnish a copy of any variance granted to
the Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Official shall record said
variance with the County Recorder of Deeds. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006; amd. 2008
Code)
   D.   Standards For Special Use: The City Council may grant a special use
permit, in cases where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship
in carrying out the strict letter of any of those regulations relating to the
use of land, building or structures. In its consideration of the standards of
practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Council shall require
evidence that: 1) the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by this title; and 2)
the plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and 3) the special use
permit, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality. A
special use permit will be granted only if the evidence sustains each of the
three (3) conditions enumerated. Every special use permit granted or denied by
the Council shall be made by written order which shall contain findings of fact
specifying the reasons for such decision, a copy of which order shall be
furnished to the applicant by the Council.
   E.   Hearing: No variation or special use permit shall be made except in a
specific case and after a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. At
the hearing, the proponents and the opponents of the petition and their
respective attorneys may appear and be heard. All testimony shall be made under
oath or affirmation.
   F.   Notice Of Hearing: Notices of the time and place of the public hearing
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be given in each case by publishing a
notice thereof in a newspaper of general circulation within the City not more
than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing. The
notice shall contain the particular location for which the relief is requested
as well as a brief description of the proposed relief. A notice of the time and
place of the public hearing shall also be posted on or as close as possible to
the land for which relief is sought. Additionally, notice of the time and place
of the public hearing shall be mailed not less than ten (10) days before the
hearing to the persons identified as owners of abutting land in the petition.
   G.   Decisions: All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals on variances,
arrived at after the hearing, shall require a majority vote of the quorum, and
such decisions shall be final, subject only to judicial review, in accordance
with applicable State statutes.
   H.   Existing Variations: All variations still in use, granted under the
City's prior zoning ordinances, are hereby ratified. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-2-4: LAPSE OF BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT:
Whenever the Zoning Official, or its designee has granted a building and zoning
permit, said building and zoning permit so granted shall lapse after the
expiration date of one (1) year from the date of issuance of the building and
zoning permit if construction of foundation has not been completed in
accordance with the plans for which such building and zoning permit was
granted. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-2-5: AMENDMENTS:
The regulations set forth in this title and the district shown on the zoning
map shall be amended only in accordance with the requirements of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-14. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-2-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeal To Zoning Board Of Appeals: All appeals from and review of any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Official in
enforcing the provisions of this title shall be made to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. Any appeal from the failure by the Zoning Official to act shall also
be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
   B.   Authority To Appeal: Such appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by an officer or the mayor and city council. Failure of the zoning board to
act within thirty (30) days after application shall be considered a
determination in favor of the applicant, unless the applicant is in default to
the city. A default occurs when an applicant owes money to the city or is being
prosecuted for violation of a city ordinance, in which case, the zoning
official or the zoning board of appeals shall defer action until such money is
paid or such prosecution completed.
   C.   Notice Of Appeal: Notices of appeal from decisions of the zoning
official shall be filed within forty five (45) days from such decision, or if
no decision has been made, within thirty (30) days of application to the zoning
official. Notices of appeal shall be filed with the zoning official and/or city
clerk and shall specify the grounds of appeal. Such notice shall be delivered
by the zoning official and/or city clerk to the zoning board of appeals,
together with all papers constituting the record in such case. (Ord. 349, 1-24-
2006; amd. 2008 Code)
9-2-7: FEES:
The fee for hearing appeals from decisions of the zoning official or for
variations of the terms of this title by the zoning board of appeals or for
special use permits shall be as established from time to time by ordinance of
the city council 1 . In addition, the city council may establish, from time to
time, a deposit fee, which shall be paid by the applicant to cover the cost of
the proceedings before the zoning board of appeals and the cost of required
publication and any inspections required by the city. These fees shall be paid
to the city treasurer. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-3-1 of this code.
9-2-8: SEPARABILITY:
Should any provisions of this title be declared invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of this title as a
whole or any part hereof other than the part so declared to be invalid, nor
shall such decision affect the application of such provision to any other
property or structure not specifically included in such court's decision. (Ord.
349, 1-24-2006)
9-2-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006;
amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   The penalty for failing to obtain a building permit shall be two (2)
times the amount of what the permit fee would have been. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
ARTICLE A.  ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Created; Members; Appointment; Terms
9-2A-2: Vacancies And Removals
9-2A-3: Chairperson
9-2A-4: Meetings
9-2A-5: Compensation
9-2A-6: Powers And Duties
9-2A-1: CREATED; MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized to be established. The word
"board", when used in this chapter, shall mean the zoning board of appeals. The
board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor with the
consent of the city council. The zoning board of appeals shall consist of the
chairman and six (6) members who shall each serve for a term of five (5) years;
provided, that the seven (7) members first appointed after the effective date
hereof shall serve terms as follows: one for one year; one for two (2) years;
one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five (5) years; one
for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. The term of service for each
member shall be as stated herein, until their respective successors are
appointed. No member may serve more than two (2) consecutive terms. (Ord. 374,
10-25-2011)
9-2A-2: VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
Vacancies in office shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose
place has become vacant. The mayor may remove any member of the board for
cause, after a public hearing, with the consent of the city council. (Ord. 349,
1-24-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
9-2A-3: CHAIRPERSON:
One of the members of the board shall be designated by the mayor, with the
consent of the city council, as chairperson of the board, and shall serve at
the pleasure of the mayor. The first chairperson of the board appointed after
the effective date hereof shall serve a three (3) year term. The chairperson of
the zoning board of appeals, or in the chairperson's absence, the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. (Ord.
349, 1-24-2006)
9-2A-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of the
chairperson, or any two (2) members, or at such times as such board may
determine. All hearings conducted by the board shall be open to the public. The
board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of
fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested variation or
special use permit, and the reasons for granting or denying such application
shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal
thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the board
shall be filed immediately with the city clerk, and shall be a public record.
Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum, and no hearing shall
be conducted without a quorum of the board being present. The zoning official
shall report monthly to the city council all approved variances. (Ord. 349, 1-
24-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
9-2A-5: COMPENSATION:
The members of the zoning board of appeals, including the zoning official,
shall receive fees for their compensation as shall be established from time to
time by ordinance of the city council 1 . (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-3-2 of this code.
9-2A-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The zoning board of appeals shall exercise the power and perform all the duties
and proceed in the manner set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-
1 et seq., other applicable statutes of the state, and this title. (Ord. 349,
1-24-2006)
CHAPTER 3
A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose And Scope
9-3-2: Boundaries
9-3-3: Annexed Property Zoned A District
9-3-4: Compliance With Provisions
9-3-5: Permitted And Prohibited Uses
9-3-6: Special Uses
9-3-7: Building Height
9-3-8: Yard Regulations
9-3-9: Allowed Obstructions
9-3-10: Intensity Of Use
9-3-11: Detached Garages
9-3-12: Off Street Parking Regulations
9-3-13: Accessory Buildings
9-3-14: Fences, Trellises, Walls And Landscaping
9-3-15: Home Occupations
9-3-16: Continuation Of Non-Conforming Use
9-3-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: In order to regulate and restrict the location of buildings
designated for specified uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of
buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered, to regulate and limit the
intensity of the use of the lot areas, and to regulate and determine the areas
of yards, courts and other open spaces within and surrounding such buildings,
the City is hereby designated as one district, known as the A Residential
District. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
   B.   Scope: The regulations set forth in sections
9-3-5 and
9-3-7 through
9-3-16, inclusive, of this chapter or as set forth elsewhere in this title when
referred to in such sections, are the district regulations in the A Residential
District. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006; amd. Ord. 412, 8-23-2016)
9-3-2: BOUNDARIES:
The boundaries of the A Residential District shall be conterminous with the
boundaries of the City. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-3-3: ANNEXED PROPERTY ZONED A DISTRICT:
Any property hereafter annexed to the City shall be classified in the A
Residential District. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-3-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except for a
purpose permitted in the A Residential District.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit for the A Residential District.
   C.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered except in conformity with the area regulations of the A
Residential District.
   D.   The minimum yards, off street parking spaces and other open spaces,
including lot area per family, required by this chapter for each and every
building existing at the effective date hereof or for any building hereafter
erected shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard, parking spaces, or
open space requirements for any other building.
   E.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on at least one "lot" as defined in section
9-1-2 of this title, and in no case shall there be more than one main building
on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-3-5: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: In the A Residential District, no lot or land shall be
used, or no building shall be used, or no building shall be erected or altered,
except for one of the following uses:
Municipal use by the City.
Private garage.
Public park or playground.
Single-family dwelling.
Accessory buildings incidental to the above uses, so long as such buildings are
on the same lot as the main building and are not used for commercial purposes.
   B.   Prohibited Uses; Home Occupations: Two-family dwellings and multiple-
family dwellings, car washes, drive-in establishments, filling stations,
commercial garages, hotels, lodging houses, short-term rentals, manufactured
homes, mobile homes, and motels, and other commercial, business and "service
establishments", as defined in section
9-1-2 of this title, are prohibited and cannot be allowed even by appeal or
variation. Home occupations conducted in accord with this chapter are permitted
1 .
      1.   For the purposes of this section, “short-term rental” means the
renting or leasing of any home, dwelling, structure or any part thereof, for a
period of less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006; Ord. 437, 10-22-
2019)
 
Notes
1 1  See section
  9-3-15 of this chapter.
9-3-6: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Permitted Special Uses: The City Council may, by special use permit,
after notice and public hearing held by the Zoning Board of Appeals and subject
to such protective restrictions that are deemed necessary, authorize the
location, extension or structural alteration of any of the following buildings
or uses, or an increase in their height, in the A Residential District:
Church or temple.
Civic center.
Group home for mentally or physically disabled persons.
Library.
Other non-City public building or office.
Planned unit development.
School.
   B.   Permit Procedure: Before issuance of any special use permit for any of
the buildings or uses enumerated in subsection A of this section, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall report to the Mayor and City Council regarding the
public hearing thereon and also upon the effect of such proposed building or
use upon the character of the neighborhood, surrounding land values, traffic
conditions, public utility facilities, and other matters pertaining to the
public health, public safety or general welfare. No action shall be taken upon
any application for a special use permit until the report of the Zoning Board
of Appeals has been filed, and such report shall be made within sixty (60) days
after the matter has been heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals. If the Zoning
Board of Appeals recommends against the issuance of the special use permit,
then it may be issued only by an affirmative two-thirds (2/3) vote of the City
Council. An applicant for a special use permit shall pay an application fee 1
in an amount fixed from time to time by ordinance. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
  2-3-1 of this Code.
9-3-7: BUILDING HEIGHT:
In the A Residential District, no building or other structure shall exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories or exceed thirty five feet (35') in height,
whichever is taller. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-3-8: YARD REGULATIONS:
In the A Residential District, the minimum dimensions of yards shall be as
follows:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard on the front of each building
having a depth of not less than thirty five feet (35'); provided, however, that
where the average depth of the front yard fronting on any one (1) side of the
street within a distance of three hundred feet (300') on each side of a
particular lot exceeds thirty five feet (35'), the depth of the front yard
required under this title for such a lot shall be such larger average depth.
When the street is curved, the line shall follow the curve rather than be a
straight line.
   B.   Corner Lots And Double Frontage Lots: The postal address shall
determine the main street for corner lots and double frontage lots. A street
parallel to the main street shall also be a main street for double frontage
lots. A street perpendicular to a main street shall be a side street for a
corner lot or double frontage lot. The front yard requirements of subsection A
of this section shall apply to both street sides of a corner lot and to both
main street sides of a double frontage lot.
   C.   Side Yard: Except as set out in subsection B of this section, there
shall be a side yard on each side of any building, neither of which is less
than five feet (5'), and together total at least fifteen feet (15'), and no
part of any building, including eaves or guttering, shall be closer than five
feet (5') to the side yard lot line. However, the eaves or guttering on a
detached garage may be as close as two and one-half feet (21/2'), so long as
the closest point of such garage is no closer than ten feet (10') from any
dwelling unit on the same or adjacent lots. Side yards qualifying under
subsection B of this section must not be within City right-of-way and must
comply with section
9-3-2, "Boundaries", of this chapter.
   D.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25'), except in instances where a lot is less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') in depth, in which case, the rear yard shall be
not less than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of such lot. Rear yards that
front on a street must not encroach on City right-of-way and must adhere to
section
9-3-2, "Boundaries", of this chapter. Moreover, on rear yards that abut a
street, all encumbrances shall have a set-back of at least ten feet (10') from
lot line.
   E.   Yard Layout: See yard layout figures for respective yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40450415285a20d54eca53fd28c1446d8d3313de/
IMAGES/0-0-0-749.gif]
 
(Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-3-9: ALLOWED OBSTRUCTIONS:
The following structures are allowed obstructions in any yard, any rear yard,
or any side or rear yard, respectively, as long as they meet all the
requirements set forth in this title and any applicable City ordinance:
   A.   The following structures are allowed in any yard:
Air conditioning or heat pump unit.
Arbor or trellis.
Basketball backboards and goals.
Chimney not projecting more than two feet (2') from the building.
Fences or solid ornamental walls (see section
9-3-14 of this chapter for additional regulations and restrictions).
Flagpole.
Lights and light standards.
Mailbox and mailbox standard.
Open porch, so long as railings are not more than forty eight inches (48")
high.
Steps, sidewalks and driveways.
Terraces or retaining walls.
Trees, shrubs, hedges, flowers and other plants.
   B.   In addition to the obstructions allowed in any yard in subsection A of
this section, the following structures are permitted in any rear yard:
Accessory buildings in accordance with section
9-3-13 of this chapter.
Clotheslines or other non-mechanical clothes drying apparatus.
Gazebo.
Ornamental gate.
Outdoor barbecue grill, oven or fireplace.
Pergola.
Swimming pool, hot tub or spa.
Television satellite dish receiver or transmission tower of any kind (height
not to exceed 5 feet over the maximum height specified in section
9-3-7 of this chapter).
Tennis court.
   C.   In addition to the obstructions allowed in any yard in subsection A of
this section, the following structures are permitted in any side or rear yard:
Children's play equipment.
Radio antennas.
Television antennas.
Unenclosed off street parking spaces.
Vegetable or flower garden.
   D.   Additionally, on a corner lot, no allowed obstruction may stand within
thirty feet (30') of the intersection of the two (2) street lines, unless the
obstruction is either:
      1.   Less than three feet (3') in height, measured from the ground;
      2.   Fourteen inches (14") or less in width or diameter, if over ten feet
(10') in height; or
      3.   Does not obstruct or interfere with the vision of drivers of motor
vehicles on such intersecting streets, or endanger the safety of pedestrians on
adjacent public rights-of-way 1 . (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-3-14B of this chapter.
9-3-10: INTENSITY OF USE:
   A.   Every lot or tract of land upon which a building is erected shall have
an area of not less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet, with at least
sixty feet (60') of frontage upon a street, and an average depth of not less
than seventy five feet (75'). No building, with its accessory buildings, shall
occupy in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the area of the lot, and not more
than fifty percent (50%) of the required front yard or corner side yard may be
covered with an impermeable surface, a hard permeable surface, or a combination
of the two (2) surfaces.
   B.   Every dwelling unit constructed shall have not less than two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet of living area, not including any attached
garage, as a minimum size. (See section
9-1-2 of this title for definition of "garage".) (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-3-11: DETACHED GARAGES:
A private residential detached garage, not a commercial garage, is allowed only
in the rear yard, and may not exceed seventeen feet (17') in height. All
garages combined shall be limited to no more than forty percent (40%) of the
living space. See section
9-3-13 of this chapter for additional regulations restricting buildings in rear
yards. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-3-12: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   There may be one (1) off street parking space for each dwelling
unit, and such space shall be on the same lot.
      2.   Whenever any structure or building is erected or altered for one (1)
of the other purposes permitted in subsection
9-3-6A of this chapter, there may be provided off street parking spaces in the
ratio of at least one (1) parking space for each two (2) full time employees or
each five (5) seats in the public use, public meeting, or congregation area.
   B.   Size:
      1.   Any off street parking space shall be at least one hundred eighty
(180) square feet, appropriately dimensioned and sufficient in size to store
one standard automobile, exclusive of a durably surfaced driveway connecting
the parking space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress of an automobile.
      2.   Any parking space designated for use by handicapped motorists shall
be sized in accordance with standards promulgated by the Illinois Department of
Transportation.
   C.   Surfacing: Any off street parking space shall be surfaced with four
inches (4") of bituminous surfacing, or four inches (4") of concrete. Parking
of vehicles is prohibited on grassy surfaces. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-3-13: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Accessory buildings are allowed only in a rear yard and are limited to
the following:
      1.   A private residential detached garage, not a commercial garage. (See
section
9-3-11 of this chapter.)
      2.   A storage shed or garden house that does not exceed one hundred
fifty (150) square feet in area nor exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
      3.   One animal shelter, no larger than fifteen (15) square feet in area.
      4.   A noncommercial greenhouse that does not exceed in floor area twenty
five percent (25%) of the ground floor area of the principal building nor
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
   B.   Accessory buildings and garages must also conform to the following
regulations:
      1.   Accessory buildings, including detached garages, shall be located
only in a rear yard but shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the
rear yard; provided, that the area for all accessory buildings (including
detached garages) shall not exceed one thousand one hundred thirty (1,130)
square feet.
      2.   If an accessory building or a garage is attached to or within ten
feet (10') of a principal building, then the same side and rear yard
requirements for a principal building must be observed; if more than ten feet
(10') from a principal building, then an accessory building or detached garage
must maintain at least a two and one-half foot (21/2') setback for both side
and rear yards (see subsection
9-3-8C of this chapter). Accessory buildings and detached garages must be
separated from each other by a minimum of five feet (5').
      3.   No garage, accessory building or structure requiring a building and
zoning permit, unless structurally part of the principal building, shall be
erected, enlarged, altered, or moved to a location within six feet (6') of the
nearest wall of the principal building. No principal building shall be erected,
enlarged, expanded, altered, or moved to a location within ten feet (10') of
the nearest wall of any existing garage, accessory building or structure.
      4.   No accessory building or garage shall be constructed upon a lot
until the construction of the main building has been actually commenced, and no
accessory building or detached garage shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   C.   Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this chapter, the
provisions of subsections A and B of this section shall not be applicable to
any property which is owned by an owner having at least thirty (30) acres of
contiguous real property located within the geographical territory of the City;
provided, however, that each accessory building is located no less than fifty
feet (50') from the property line adjacent to any street. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-3-14: FENCES, TRELLISES, WALLS AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Specifications: No trellis, fence, ornamental wall, pillar, or
retaining wall may be erected which does not comply with the yard requirements
as set forth in section
9-3-8 of this chapter and the following specifications:
      1.   Any fence or trellis erected in a required front yard shall be at
least fifty percent (50%) open and no more than three feet (3') high, measured
from the ground. A clearance of three inches (3") shall be allowed for
installation purposes and shall not count in determining the height of a fence.
No privacy fence may be erected in a required front yard. All fences shall be
installed with the good or finished side of the fence facing the adjoining
property.
      2.   Except as set out in subsection
9-3-8B of this chapter, no fence or trellis in a side yard shall be more than
six feet (6') high, measured from the ground.
      3.   No fence or trellis in a rear yard may be more than six feet (6')
high, measured from the ground. Rear yards that front a street shall adhere to
section
9-3-2, "Boundaries", of this chapter and fence shall be no closer to a fronted
street than ten feet (10') from the lot line.
      4.   No fence or trellis shall be constructed with barbed wire, metal
spikes or other sharp, pointed materials. All chain link fences shall be
installed with the knuckle portion of the linking up and barb portion at or
near the ground. No fence may be electrified.
      5.   No ornamental trellis or wall erected in a required front yard shall
be more than three feet (3') high, measured from the ground. No ornamental wall
erected in a side or rear yard shall be more than six feet (6') high, measured
from the ground.
      6.   No pillar erected in a required front yard shall be more than six
feet (6') high, measured from the ground, or more than two feet (2') in width
or diameter.
      7.   No retaining wall, which is a wall designed to prevent the
displacement of soil or other materials, shall be more than ten feet (10')
high, measured from the point of its greatest exposed height from the ground,
and shall have an average exposed height of no more than six feet (6') in a
side or rear yard or three and one-half feet (31/2') in a front yard, measured
from the ground.
      8.   No fence or wall shall be constructed within the City's right-of-
way.
   B.   Traffic Visibility: No fence, trellis, ornamental wall, pillar,
retaining wall or other obstruction shall be erected or maintained, in any
yard, which obstructs or interferes with the vision of drivers of motor
vehicles at or near an intersection, or which endangers the safety of
pedestrians on adjacent public rights-of-way. No tree, shrub, hedge, flowers or
other plants shall be planted or maintained in a way that obstructs or
interferes with the vision of drivers of motor vehicles at or near an
intersection, or which endangers the safety of pedestrians on adjacent public
rights-of-way. (Ord. 424, 1-23-2018)
9-3-15: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
All home occupations shall be conducted in accordance with the following
limitations:
   A.   No person, other than members of the family residing in such dwelling
unit, shall be engaged in such occupation.
   B.   The use of the dwelling unit for a home occupation shall be clearly
incidental to and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the
dwelling unit shall be used in the conduct of a home occupation.
   C.   There shall be no signs or display or other change in the outside
appearance of the building or premises, or other visible evidence of the
conduct of a home occupation.
   D.   No home occupation shall be conducted in any two-family dwelling or
multiple-family dwelling, in any accessory building, or outdoors, and no
materials shall be stored outdoors.
   E.   No traffic shall be generated by a home occupation in greater volume
than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any need for
parking generated by a home occupation, for clients, shall be met off street
and other than in a required front yard.
   F.   The conduct of a home occupation shall not generate noise, airborne
debris, odors, fumes, electrical interference, vibrations, or any other
condition detrimental to adjacent dwelling units or lots. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
9-3-16: CONTINUATION OF NON-CONFORMING USE:
Any use of a building or land lawfully existing on the date these amended
Building Codes and zoning regulations are adopted, or which does not conform
with the building use or zoning regulations of the City, may be continued under
the regulations, but the regulations shall not be interpreted as authorizing
the continuation of any use of a building or land which was not lawfully
existing on the effective date hereof. (Ord. 417, 3-28-2017)
CHAPTER 4
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use; Change Of Use
9-4-2: Damaged Structures
9-4-3: Discontinuance Of Use
9-4-4: Transfer Of Use
9-4-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE; CHANGE OF USE:
The lawful use of land or a building existing at the effective date hereof may
be continued, subject to the provisions of this title, although such use does
not conform with the provisions hereof. A nonconforming use may not be changed
to another nonconforming use. Whenever a nonconforming use of land or a
building has been changed to a conforming use, such shall not thereafter be
changed back to a nonconforming use. This section, together with other
provisions of this chapter, shall also apply to a use based upon a variance
granted under prior zoning ordinances. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-4-2: DAMAGED STRUCTURES:
No building which has been intentionally demolished or which has been damaged
by fire, storm, explosion, act of nature or public enemy, to the extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value, shall be restored except in
conformity with the regulations of this title; except, that, in the event a
single- family dwelling or garage, which stands on a lot which is less than the
minimum size required by this title, is damaged or destroyed by any such
casualty, it may be restored or rebuilt on the limits of its original
foundation and to its original height; provided that such restoration or
rebuilding is in conformance with other provisions of this code. (Ord. 387, 11-
26-2013)
9-4-3: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
In the event that a nonconforming use is discontinued or its normal operation
stopped for a period of six (6) months, the use of the same shall thereafter
conform to the regulations of the A residential district. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-4-4: TRANSFER OF USE:
Any nonconforming use existing at the effective date hereof may be transferred
to a new owner, subject to all other restrictions in this title. (Ord. 349, 1-
24-2006)
CHAPTER 5
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Signs
9-5-2: Building Height Exceptions
9-5-3: Temporary Buildings During Building Construction
9-5-4: More Than One Single-Family Dwelling Per Lot
9-5-5: Commercial And Industrial Districts Prohibited; Illini Country Club
Excepted
9-5-1: SIGNS:
No person or corporation shall erect or maintain any advertising signs. Signs
for the sale or lease of realty or for political campaigns are permitted, but
shall not be erected or maintained on a public right of way, or exceed seven
hundred twenty (720) square inches in size (approximately 24 inches by 30
inches). Said signs shall be removed when the purpose is complete. (Ord. 349,
1-24-2006)
9-5-2: BUILDING HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS:
Where otherwise permitted, public, semipublic or public service buildings or
schools may be erected to a height not exceeding sixty feet (60'), and churches
and temples may be erected to a height not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if
the building is set back from each yard line at least one foot (1') for each
foot of additional building height above the height limit otherwise provided in
the A residential district. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-5-3: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
Temporary buildings, that are used in conjunction with construction work only,
may be permitted during the period that the building is being constructed, but
such temporary buildings shall be removed upon completion of the construction
work. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-5-4: MORE THAN ONE SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING PER LOT:
More than one single-family dwelling may be erected upon a single lot or tract,
provided such buildings are developed as a planned unit development, under a
special use permit, so long as the number of lots equals the number of single-
family dwellings, so long as the yards and open spaces required around the
boundaries of the lots are not encroached upon by any such buildings, and so
long as intensity of use regulations are fulfilled. (Ord. 349, 1-24-2006)
9-5-5: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS PROHIBITED; ILLINI COUNTRY CLUB
EXCEPTED:
No lot, parcel of ground or piece of real estate or portion thereof in the city
shall be used for industrial or commercial purposes or for any purpose other
than residential, nor shall any structure be erected, altered, placed or
permitted to remain thereon which shall be used in whole or in part for
industrial or commercial purposes; except that the real estate owned and leased
by the Illini Country Club, as of the effective date of the ordinance codified
herein, may continue to be used for commercial purposes for so long as the
Illini Country Club continues to exist. (Ord. 8, 7-10-1950)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose And Intent
10-1-3: Jurisdiction
10-1-3-1:    Plat Officer
10-1-4: Compliance With Provisions
10-1-5: Definitions
10-1-6: Separability
10-1-7: Penalty
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, referred to, and cited as the LAND SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LELAND GROVE, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of this title is to maintain the residential character of
the city and to regulate and control the division of land within the plat
jurisdiction of the city, to prevent the subdivision of land for uses to which
the land is not suited, and to prevent serious hazards and problems to the
citizens of the community.
   B.   This title will provide for the improvement of the public health and
safety; the harmonious development of Leland Grove and its environs; the
coordination of streets, public areas, and other features; and the protection
of the community's taxable resources by requiring that subdivisions be designed
and developed so as not to impose excessive maintenance burdens on the
community, but at the same time allow for reasonable development costs for the
developer and homeowner.
   C.   This title is intended to establish regulations specifically needed to:
      1.   Provide for the orderly division of land by requiring the proper
description and recording of subdivided lands.
      2.   Provide reasonable protection and conservation of those natural
resources (land, air, vegetation, and water) upon which the continued
prosperity, safety, health and welfare of the community may depend.
      3.   Prevent scattered development beyond the reasonable service area of
community facilities and utilities.
   D.   It is also the intention of this title that any land divided hereunder
shall result in the creation of lots of sufficient size and shape to be
practically used and will serve the public in a reasonable fashion over a long
period of time. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-1-3: JURISDICTION:
The plat jurisdiction of the city shall include all land within the corporate
limits of the city, and all unincorporated land within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the corporate limits of the city; except, when a contractual agreement
has been established between Springfield and other municipalities concerning
jurisdictional powers in the one and one-half (11/2) mile overlap areas between
the two (2) municipalities, the city of Leland Grove will have subdivision
control in this overlap area for the area established by the agreement. (Ord.
212, 6-22-1985)
10-1-3-1: PLAT OFFICER:
The Zoning Administrator of the City, or in their absence, the City
Administrator, is hereby designated to serve as plat officer for the city of
Leland Grove. (Ord. 413, 11-22-2016; Ord. 434, 7-23-2019)
10-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any subdivider of land within the corporate limits of
the city to subdivide land into lots, blocks, streets, alleys, or public open
space unless done by plat in accordance with the laws of the state and the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words, phrases, and terms shall be
construed as follows:
ALLEY: A public way used primarily as a service access to the rear or side of a
property which abuts on a street.
AS BUILT PLANS: Final plans showing all changes in the proposed plans,
indicating in detail how the project was constructed. Such plans shall show all
public facilities as built on the surface and underground, both on public
property and on easements, and shall also indicate all private utility
locations that are known. The following details shall be shown: sanitary and
storm sewers, manholes, invert grades, bench marks, location of sanitary sewer
laterals, street inlets, general flow of surface water, and grades for drainage
swales on the lots. The as built plans shall carry the seal of a registered
professional engineer who shall certify that construction was completed in
conformance with the plans and specifications.
BLOCK: The distance, as measured along a street, between intersecting streets
from centerline to centerline; and where the context requires, it also means
the enclosed area within the perimeter of the streets or property lines
enclosing it.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Leland Grove.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Leland Grove.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street of relatively short length that serves as a
connection between a major or secondary thoroughfare and several minor streets.
The term includes the principal entrance streets of a residential development
and streets for major circulation within such a development.
CONSTRUCTION PLAN: The drawings prepared in the manner and containing the data,
documents and information required by this title.
DEAD END STREET (CUL-DE-SAC): A permanent street terminating at one end without
connecting with another street and is designed so that it cannot be further
extended without condemnation or taking property not dedicated as a street.
DRAINAGE COURSE: A natural watercourse or swale or depression for the drainage
of surface waters.
EASEMENT: A nonprofitable interest in land owned by another that entitles its
holder to a specific limited use.
FINAL PLAT: The drawing of a subdivision prepared in the manner and containing
the data, documents and information required herein.
LOCATION MAP: A preliminary drawing or map of a proposed subdivision containing
the data and information required herein.
LOT: The tract within a subdivision marked by the subdivider as a numbered
tract to be offered as a unit of land for sale.
MAJOR THOROUGHFARE: A street of continuity that carries, or that planning
evidence indicates will carry, a large volume of traffic.
MINOR RESIDENTIAL STREET: A street of relatively short length that provides
direct access to a limited number of abutting residential properties and is
designed to discourage its use by through traffic.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: A plan of a proposed subdivision or greater area prepared in
the manner and containing the data, documents and information herein.
PRIVATE STREET: A street, way or strip of land purportedly reserved for the use
of a limited number of persons or purposes as distinguished from a publicly
dedicated street.
PUBLIC CROSSWALK: A public way designed primarily for use of pedestrian traffic
at an intersection.
SANITARY SEWER: A constructed conduit connected with the Springfield sanitary
district sewer system for the carrying of liquids and solids other than storm
waters to the sanitary treatment plant.
SECONDARY THOROUGHFARE: A street of continuity that carries a considerable
volume of traffic of more than neighborhood character.
SERVICE ACCESS STREET: A street parallel to and adjacent to a major
thoroughfare which provides access from the thoroughfare to abutting
properties.
STORM SEWER: A constructed conduit for carrying storm waters to a drainage
course.
SUBDIVIDER: Any owner, agent, or person controlling land who commences
proceedings under this title by submitting a location map to the city council.
SUBDIVISION OF LAND: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, any of
which is less than five (5) acres in size, or the dedication of streets or
easements of access. The provisions of this title do not apply, and no plat is
required in any of the following instances:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land.
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for the use as a
right of way for public utility facilities and other pipelines which does not
involve any new streets or easements of access.
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a public utility which does not involve
any new streets or easements of access.
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
   H.   The sale of a single lot of less than five (5) acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on October 1, 1973; and provided also, that this exemption does
not invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land.
   I.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements
of access.
SUPERINTENDENT OF HIGHWAYS: The Sangamon County superintendent of highways.
SURETY: A bonding agency that is financially qualified to do business in the
state of Illinois.
THROUGH LOT: Any lot which is not a corner lot and which adjoins two (2)
streets that are parallel or within forty five degrees (45°) of being parallel
to each other.
TOWNSHIP HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER: The township highway commissioner for the
township(s) in which the subdivision is located.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Any sign, signal, marking and device placed on or
adjacent to a street or highway by authority of the city council, the state of
Illinois department of transportation or the Sangamon County superintendent of
highways. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
10-1-6: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, provision or portion of this title is adjudged unconstitutional
or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this title
shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, plus costs and attorney fees. Each day that a violation of
this title continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall
be punishable as such. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Location Map
10-2-2: Preliminary Plan
10-2-3: Construction Requirements
10-2-4: Final Plat
10-2-1: LOCATION MAP:
   A.   Submission; Required Information: Before preparation of a preliminary
plan, a subdivider shall submit six (6) prints of a location map to the city
council for review and advice. The location map shall consist of data added to
an existing base map, such as a United States geological survey map, or a
township base map, to a suitable scale, covering an area of at least one mile
radius from the tract proposed for development. The location map shall show the
following information:
      1.   The outline of the area to be subdivided with approximate boundary
dimensions and total acreage.
      2.   Existing streets and roads and principal utility lines on adjacent
properties expected to serve the area to be subdivided.
      3.   A north point, scale, and date.
      4.   Present and proposed zoning classification of the property to be
subdivided.
      5.   Title of the proposed subdivision along with the names and addresses
of the owner or subdivider, engineer, and land surveyor.
   B.   Review: Within seventy five (75) days after receipt of a location map
or any amendment thereof, the city council shall study the proposed subdivision
site for development. Suitability for development depends upon the severity of,
and available solutions to, problems concerning, but not limited to:
      1.   Location of the property on the floodplain of a river or stream.
      2.   Unusual topographic or drainage problems.
      3.   Land proposed for public use.
      4.   Poor access or no public road near enough to provide reasonable
access.
      5.   The availability of public utility services.
      6.   Undesirable soil conditions affecting building construction.
      7.   Other hazards that may render the site unsafe. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   Submission; Fee: After obtaining approval of the location map from the
city council, the subdivider shall file ten (10) prints of a preliminary plan
and the original of the proposed subdivision with the city clerk with a filing
fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The city clerk shall refer a copy of
the print to the city engineer and shall refer the matter to the city council.
The subdivider shall ascertain from all utility companies correct locations of
all easements that are to be delineated on the preliminary plan, and shall
submit to the city council letters from all utility companies and cable
television companies and other public service type companies showing their
approval of easement locations shown on the preliminary plan. (Ord. 212, 6-22-
1985; amd. 2008 Code)
   B.   Required Information: The preliminary plan shall show the following
information on sheets of a maximum size of twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36") with matching lines if two (2) or more sheets are used:
      1.   The location of all present property lines, section lines, streets,
buildings, watercourses and other existing features within the area to be
subdivided, and similar information (except buildings and property lines)
regarding land within a minimum of two hundred feet (200'). Any future
developments adjacent to the area to be subdivided that might affect the design
of sanitary sewers, drainage facilities, streets, or other important
improvements shall be shown.
      2.   The location and width to the nearest foot of all proposed streets,
alleys, lots, setback lines, utility easements, and areas to be reserved for
public use.
      3.   Lot numbers and the proposed location of sewer mains and the storm
drainage system. The sanitary sewer and storm drains may be shown on a
supplemental sheet.
      4.   The existing utilities, drainage courses, and culverts within that
area to be subdivided or on the land adjacent thereto, along with the location
and size of the nearest water mains and sewer outlets.
      5.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
the names of the engineer, registered land surveyor, subdivider and owners of
the tract, with the addresses where any notice is to be sent.
      6.   Contours refer to the USGS datum with intervals of two feet (2') or
less, unless a greater interval is required because of terrain.
      7.   The north point, a minimum scale of one inch equals one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), and the date.
      8.   The acreage and proposed zoning classification, in sketch form, of
land to be subdivided.
      9.   A note stating "Preliminary Plan - Not To Be Recorded By Recorder Of
Deeds".
      10.   The elevation of the 100-year floodplain if any portion of the land
to be subdivided would be submerged by the flood. Adequate buildable area must
be provided above the elevation of the 100-year floodplain.
   C.   Council Approval Or Disapproval:
      1.   If the city council finds that the proposed plan satisfies the
requirements of this title, it shall endorse approval thereon in substantially
the following language:
The proposed preliminary plan of subdivision as shown herein is approved. This
is not an approval of the final plat, and this proposed plan shall not be
recorded by the Recorder of Deeds.
         Dated:                    
         By:                        
      2.   If the city council finds that the proposed plan does not satisfy
the requirements of this title, or if it is found that a public health or
safety hazard exists on the land or land adjacent thereto controlled by the
subdivider, it shall specify its disapproval in written findings and an order
that states the conditions to be met and specific changes needed before the
plan can be resubmitted. A copy of the proposed plan, findings and order shall
be delivered to the subdivider.
      3.   When all the requirements set forth above have been met, the city
council may by resolution approve the preliminary plan and authorize the mayor
to sign the plan for and in the name of the city, with the attestation of the
city clerk. The original of the preliminary plan so signed shall be delivered
to the subdivider, and the city clerk shall retain one copy on file. It shall
be stated on the original and copies of the preliminary plan that the approval
of the city council does not constitute approval of the final plat, and the
preliminary plan shall not be recorded by the recorder of deeds.
      4.   The approval of a preliminary plan by the city council will be valid
for one year. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-2-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Construction Plan:
      1.   Plan Required: Upon receipt of the approved preliminary plan, the
subdivider shall submit ten (10) sets of construction plans to the city clerk
for distribution to the city council, city engineer, and other persons as
directed by the city council. The construction plans should be for the area
covered in each final plat. Construction plans for public improvements
necessary to serve the area being platted will be reviewed for approval. The
submission or resubmission of construction plans shall be accompanied by a
review fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per acre for each gross acre or parts
thereof within the subdivision boundaries, or five hundred dollars ($500.00),
whichever is greater. Other specific additional information may be requested by
the city engineer.
      2.   Required Information: The construction plans shall be submitted on
appropriate size sheets (24 inches by 36 inches) and to a minimum scale of one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Construction plans shall contain the
following information:
         a.   Cover sheet containing the location of the development; symbols
that are used; index to sheets; summary of quantities; scales that are used;
appropriate place for approval of the city engineer; and the signature and seal
of a registered professional engineer.
         b.   North arrow and bench marks with their elevations noted. Bench
marks shall be referenced to mean sea level datum as determined by the USGS.
         c.   Plan sheets showing the locations of all existing and proposed
streets, right of way lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, sidewalks, drainage
ditches, easements, rear lot drainage, direction of storm drainage flow, survey
monuments, water mains, fire hydrants, and any other appurtenance or structure
that might influence design considerations.
         d.   Profile sheets indicating the existing ground line and proposed
grades and elevations for all proposed streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
drainage structures, drainage ditches, and rear lot drainage. Elevations shall
be referenced to the USGS datum.
         e.   Typical sections showing right of way lines, proposed pavement
widths, pavement thickness, base thickness, subbase thickness, subgrade, crown,
curbs and gutters, sidewalks, and other design data, when required.
         f.   Detail sheets showing the details of manholes, inlets, catch
basins, curb and gutters, drainage structures, and any other structure or
appurtenance to be constructed, or reference made to the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" or "Standard Specifications
For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" or "Highway Standards"
published by the state department of transportation.
         g.   Design computations for storm sewer design, special structures,
and pavement designs, when required.
         h.   When access to a county highway is involved, proof of acquisition
of an access permit from the county highway department.
         i.   Proof of acquisition or application for a 404 permit if any
dredging, riprapping, fill work or similar activities will be conducted in or
around streams.
      3.   Approval By City Engineer: Basic review of the construction plans
shall be completed by the city engineer within seventy five (75) days of the
submission date, and when construction plans have been resubmitted, they will
be rereviewed and returned to the developer's engineer within forty (40) days,
unless review time is extended by the city engineer in a letter listing reasons
for the extension. This letter will be sent to the engineer who submitted the
construction plans. When the construction plans have been approved by the city
engineer, the subdivider may install the required public improvements as
provided in this title.
   B.   Notice Of Construction: The city engineer shall be notified at least
twenty four (24) hours prior to the commencement of construction.
   C.   Subdivider's Observer Required: The subdivider's engineer shall have a
full time, qualified resident observer present on the construction site for the
following:
      1.   Approval of the subgrade prior to paving.
      2.   Continuous observation of all phases of the paving operation,
construction of sanitary sewer mains and appurtenances, and construction of
storm sewer and appurtenances.
   D.   Review By City Engineer: The city engineer will periodically review the
procedures and progress of the field construction.
   E.   Presence Of Job Site Superintendent Required: The subdivider's
contractor shall have a superintendent on the job site at all times while
construction is in progress. The superintendent shall be responsible for the
entire construction procedure. In his absence, the superintendent shall
indicate to the subdivider's observer and/or the city's observer the person
temporarily responsible for the conduct of the work. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Submission; Time Constraints: Within one year after obtaining approval
of the preliminary plan and after receiving approval of the construction plans
by the city engineer, the subdivider shall submit the original and thirteen
(13) prints of the final plat of the proposed subdivision to the city clerk to
be distributed as directed by the city council. The final plat may, at the
discretion of the subdivider, constitute only the portion of the tract covered
in the preliminary plan which the subdivider wishes to presently record and
develop. If the subdivider does not file a final plat within one year of
obtaining approval of the preliminary plan, the preliminary plan must be
resubmitted for approval. In such cases where the preliminary plan must be
resubmitted for failure to meet the one year filing deadline, the subdivider
must pay an additional fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) upon
resubmission of the preliminary plan.
   B.   Required Information: The final plat shall be an accurate drawing
designating specifically the land to be subdivided and particularly describing
the portions of the property to be dedicated for public use. The final plat
shall be drawn in black or blue ink to a scale of not more than one hundred
feet to the inch (1" = 100') from an accurate survey. It shall contain one or
more sheets, no larger than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"). If more than two (2) sheets are used, an index sheet shall be attached
showing the entire subdivision on one sheet and the component area on the
remaining sheets. No final plat shall be accepted unless it meets the
requirements herein specified, and the final plat and accompanying documents
shall contain the following information:
      1.   Boundary lines with accurate distances and angles.
      2.   General and legal description of the plat with total acreage.
      3.   An accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to be
dedicated for public use.
      4.   Lines of all proposed streets, with their widths and names.
      5.   The line of departure of one street from another.
      6.   The names and widths of adjoining streets.
      7.   All lots designated by numbers and other grounds designated by names
and numbers.
      8.   Proof of acquisition of an access permit from either the state or
the county highway department, whichever applies.
      9.   The location of all easements provided for public use, services, or
utilities. Easements shall include anchor space for pole lines.
      10.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, easements, and other areas for
public or private use. Linear dimensions are to be given to the nearest one-
hundredth (0.01) a foot.
      11.   Radii, arcs, chords, points of tangency and central angles for all
curvilinear streets, and radii for rounded corners.
      12.   Location of all survey monuments and their descriptions.
      13.   The name of the owner or owners and/or subdividers, and the date of
preparation. If the owner(s) is a trust, the beneficiaries of the trust shall
be listed.
      14.   The certificate of a registered Illinois land surveyor attesting to
the accuracy of the survey and the location of all monuments shown. The
certificate may be filed as a supplement to the final plat.
      15.   Notarized acknowledgment of the plat by the owner or owners, or a
duly authorized attorney. This item may be a separate document if no space is
available on the plat itself.
      16.   Any protective covenants or restrictions which will apply to the
subdivision, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the installation of
driveway culverts on existing township roads.
      17.   A final plat supplement shall be submitted containing topographical
and profile studies, and a signed statement of a registered professional
engineer, and the owner of the land or his duly authorized attorney, to the
effect that to the best of their knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface
waters will not be changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part
thereof; or, that if such surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable
provision has been made for collection and diversion of such surface waters
into public areas or drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and that
such surface waters will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted
engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining
property because of the construction of the subdivision.
   C.   Distribution To City Officials; Required Certificates: Upon receipt of
the final plat and thirteen (13) prints thereof, the city clerk shall deliver a
print thereof to the city engineer. The city clerk shall deliver the final plat
to the city council at its next regular session after receipt of said documents
by the clerk. Thereupon, said plat shall remain pending on the agenda of the
city council and shall not be approved by the city council until it receives
written certification from the city engineer that he has reviewed the final
plat and has found said plat to be in compliance with the requirements of this
title and that the public improvements required by this title have been
constructed and have had final inspection with all necessary repairs and
corrections completed; that the engineer for the subdivision has furnished the
city engineer with the as built plans; and a signed statement of a registered
professional engineer stating that the public improvements have been observed
during construction and installed to the specifications shown on the
construction plans, or that in lieu of such prior construction, the subdivider
has filed with the city clerk, with the approval of the city engineer, a
security in an amount equal to the estimated cost of such public improvements,
plus fifty percent (50%) of the estimated cost of such improvements, to assure
completion of said public improvements within a reasonable time without cost to
the city. The subdivider shall also file the recommendation of the city
engineer that security be accepted. Such security shall be deposited with the
city in the form of either: 1) cash; 2) check or certificate of deposit issued
by a bank maintaining a business office within the county; or 3) a completion
bond with a financially qualified corporate surety; or 4) an irrevocable letter
of credit issued by a bank maintaining a business office within the county. The
form of any bond, certificate of deposit, or letter of credit shall be subject
to approval by the city attorney. This security shall remain in effect until
released by the city council. The release of the security bond will be subject
to final inspection, receipt of the as built plans as described above, and
receipt of the signed statements of a registered professional engineer stating
that the public improvements have been observed during construction and
installed to the specifications shown on the construction plans.
   D.   Approval Of Final Plat:
      1.   No final plat shall be approved by the city council if a public
health or safety hazard exists on the land, or land adjacent thereto,
controlled by the subdivider, and until the city engineer has certified that
all of the requirements of this title have been met by the subdivider, and the
following information is submitted to the city clerk for referral to the city
council:
         a.   A general and legal description of the plat.
         b.   A certificate of the county clerk indicating no delinquent taxes
are due on the property.
         c.   Satisfactory evidence of the subdivider's legal title to the land
being platted free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and other interests
affecting title to the land.
         d.   If any prior liens, encumbrances or other interests exist to
which the subdivider's legal title is subordinate, the execution and submission
of an agreement by all prior lien holders subordinating their interests to the
interests created by the plat.
      2.   When all of the foregoing requirements have been met, the city
council may by resolution approve the final plat, accept the security, and
authorize the mayor to sign the plat for and in the name of the city with the
attestation of the city clerk. The original of the final plat, so signed, shall
be delivered to the subdivider, and the city clerk shall retain one copy on
file.
   E.   Recording Final Plat:
      1.   When the final plat has been approved by the city council and signed
by the mayor and city clerk, the original tracing may be recorded in the office
of the county recorder of deeds, together with any necessary lien subordination
agreement.
      2.   If the final plat is not recorded within one year after approval by
the city council, the plat must be resubmitted to the city council to determine
whether any adjustments in the final plat are needed to meet changes that have
occurred in and near the plat area that would affect the proper functioning of
the subdivision. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Improvement Standards And Specifications
10-3-2: Streets
10-3-3: Lots And Blocks
10-3-4: Utility Easements
10-3-5: Storm Water Control
10-3-6: Sidewalks
10-3-7: Sanitary Sewers
10-3-8: Water Supply
10-3-9: Backfill Over Underground Utilities
10-3-10: Street Lighting
10-3-1: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
Unless stated otherwise in this title, all construction shall be performed in
accordance with the state "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", adopted July 1, 1976, or the latest revised edition adopted by
the state department of transportation and the city council. (Ord. 212, 6-22-
1985)
10-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   Right Of Way Widths:
      1.   The minimum width of a street right of way in any subdivision shall
not be less than the following:
 
Major thoroughfare       120 feet
Secondary thoroughfare   80 feet
Collector street         60 feet
Minor residential street 50 feet
Alley                    20 feet
 
      2.   For subdivisions that adjoin existing streets, additional right of
way shall be dedicated, as needed, to meet the above requirements. This shall
be done as follows:
         a.   The entire additional right of way shall be provided when the
subdivision is located on both sides of the existing street.
         b.   One-half (1/2) of the required right of way shall be provided
when the subdivision is located on only one side of the existing street.
      3.   In no instance shall the resulting right of way width be less than
fifty feet (50').
   B.   Design: The following requirements shall be incorporated into the
design of all streets:
      1.   Vertical Alignment:
         a.   Grades: The maximum grade on a major thoroughfare shall be five
percent (5%). The maximum grade on all other streets shall be eight percent
(8%). The minimum grade on all streets shall be 0.40 percent. All street grades
will be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         b.   Vertical Curves: All grade changes shall be connected by vertical
curves. The lengths of vertical curves on major thoroughfares shall not be less
than thirty (30) times the algebraic difference in rates of grade, and not less
than fifteen (15) times the algebraic difference in rates of grade on all other
streets. The minimum length of vertical curves on all types of streets shall be
ten feet (10').
      2.   Horizontal Alignment:
         a.   Horizontal Curves: When a centerline deflection angle is greater
than two degrees (2°), the following curves will be required in the street:
Secondary and major thoroughfares shall have a minimum centerline radius of
three hundred feet (300') and a minimum length of curve of one hundred feet
(100'); all other types of streets shall have a minimum centerline radius of
one hundred feet (100') except when the deflection angle exceeds sixty degrees
(60°), in which case, a minimum centerline radius of fifty feet (50') may be
used. The pavement in all cases shall be wide enough to allow the movement of a
WB-50 design vehicle, as described in the state department of transportation
design manual.
         b.   Intersections: The use of "T" intersections is encouraged, and
all street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as possible, and in
no instance less than sixty degrees (60°). The back of curb radius at
intersections shall not be less than twenty feet (20').
         c.   Street Offsets: Street centerline offsets shall not be less than
one hundred twenty five feet (125'), unless otherwise warranted to the
satisfaction of the city engineer. This requirement will not be altered for
secondary or major thoroughfares.
      3.   Pavement Design:
         a.   The pavement thickness will be designed in accordance with the
latest edition or revision thereof of the design manual of the state department
of transportation bureau of design.
         b.   The average daily traffic (ADT) used in the above design will be
determined by the engineer for the subdivision and approved by the city
engineer.
         c.   The Illinois bearing ratio (IBR) used in the above design will be
furnished by the subdivider with supporting evidence indicating the soil
classifications, location of boring, boring depth and a standard proctor test.
         d.   The minimum pavement design shall be one of the following: two
inches (2") bituminous concrete surface course, class I on four inches (4")
bituminous aggregate material (BAM, 1200 MS), or six inches (6") unreinforced
Portland cement concrete pavement. Alternative designs may be submitted to the
city engineer for consideration.
      4.   Pavement Construction:
         a.   All streets shall be constructed in accordance with the latest
edition of the state "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         b.   Before pavement construction can begin, the entire subgrade shall
be compacted to not less than ninety five percent (95%) of the standard
laboratory density. Densities shall be determined as provided in article 207.05
of the state "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" or the
latest revision thereof. The number of density tests required shall be
determined by the city engineer.
         c.   If it is found that the subgrade cannot be compacted, it should
be removed and replaced with suitable materials. The depth to which this
unsuitable material is replaced shall be determined by the city engineer.
         d.   The pavement design as described above is subject to the IBR
value of the new materials.
         e.   Pavement construction should be completed without delay and
should be closed to traffic until the surface is complete. Concrete pavement
should be closed to traffic for fourteen (14) days after placement or seven (7)
days with a modulus of rupture of six hundred fifty (650) pounds per square
inch. The density of the compacted bituminous mixture shall be determined as
outlined in section 406.15 of the state "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction".
      5.   Pavement Width: The minimum pavement width shall be thirty one feet
(31') from back of curb to back of curb. Where high volume traffic is
anticipated, a wider pavement will be required. The width of this wider
pavement will be determined by the engineer for the subdivision and the city
engineer.
      6.   Curb And Gutter:
         a.   The standard curb and gutter required adjacent to flexible
pavement shall be a mountable type with the following dimensions: twenty four
inches (24") wide, eight inches (8") thick on the front face (pavement side),
ten inches (10") thick on the back face, seven inches (7") thick at the
centerline (flow line), and a ten inch (10") radius in the flow line. The curb
and gutter adjacent to concrete pavement, if poured monolithically, may be
limited to the thickness of the pavement. When poured separately, curb bars
should be placed in the pavement in accordance with the state "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" and should be poured to full
thickness as described above.
         b.   In subdivisions proposed to have streets with an anticipated
average daily traffic volume of two thousand five hundred (2,500) or more, a
barrier type curb and gutter similar to type B6.18 as described in the state
department of transportation "Highway Standards" shall be used. Other locations
where a barrier type curb and gutter are required will be determined by the
engineer for the subdivision and the city engineer.
      7.   Pavement Crown: The minimum crown used on all pavements shall be
one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot measured from the edge of the pavement to the
centerline of the street. Concrete pavement with an integral curb shall have a
minimum crown of three-eighths inch (3/8") per foot.
      8.   Dead End Streets:
         a.   Minor residential streets that are also dead end streets shall be
no more than six hundred feet (600') long unless necessitated by topography. A
turnaround shall be provided at the closed end having an outside roadway
diameter of at least eighty feet (80') and a street right of way diameter of
one hundred feet (100').
         b.   Where it is necessary to provide for street access to adjoining
property not yet subdivided, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication
to the boundary of such unsubdivided property. Such temporary dead end streets
in excess of two hundred fifty feet (250') in length shall be provided with a
temporary T turnaround or a temporary cul-de-sac. The type of construction
shall be determined by the city engineer. At the end of all streets temporarily
dead ended, a barricade meeting the provisions of the "Illinois Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" shall be installed.
      9.   Restriction Of Access: When a subdivision or portion thereof adjoins
a major or secondary thoroughfare, no lot shall have direct access thereto.
These lots shall be provided access to another street and shall have adequate
depth for screen planting on the portion of any lot contiguous to the major or
secondary thoroughfare.
      10.   Street Names And Signs:
         a.   Street Names: A proposed street that is in alignment with and/or
joins an existing named street shall bear the name of the existing street. In
no case shall the proposed name of a street duplicate the name of an existing
street within the plat jurisdiction of this title. The use of the suffix
"street", "avenue", "boulevard", "driveway", "place", or "court" or similar
description shall not be a distinction sufficient to constitute compliance with
this subsection B10a.
         b.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall be erected at all
intersections by and at the expense of the subdivider and shall be subject to
the specifications of the city engineer.
      11.   Private Streets: There shall be no private streets platted in any
subdivision. Every subdivision lot shall be served from a publicly dedicated
street.
      12.   Alleys: Alleys are not recommended in residential subdivisions
unless deemed necessary by the city engineer.
      13.   Ramps: Where sidewalks cross a barrier type curb and gutter, ramps
shall be constructed to accommodate the handicapped. These ramps shall be
constructed to the lines and grades shown on the standard sidewalk ramp example
available at the city engineer's office. Inlets for storm drainage shall not be
located so that a pedestrianway will be interrupted by the inlet grating. Other
locations where these ramps are required will be determined by the city
engineer.
      14.   Seeding Or Sodding: When areas are found to be especially
susceptible to erosion, the city engineer may require control measures
including, but not limited to, sodding, diversions, temporary or permanent
vegetation, mulching, bench terraces, outlet channels, grade stabilization
structures, bank erosion structures, and sediment basins or traps. (Ord. 212,
6-22-1985)
10-3-3: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Size Of Blocks: Blocks in residential subdivisions are recommended to
be not less than four hundred feet (400') nor more than one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') in length measured along the greatest dimension of the
enclosed block area. In blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length, the
city council may require one or more public crosswalks, with a right of way of
not less than ten feet (10') in width, to extend entirely across the block at
locations deemed necessary at intervals not closer than four hundred feet
(400').
   B.   Lot Arrangement:
      1.   Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines or
substantially radial to curved street lines. However, for the purposes of solar
orientation, side lot lines need not be at right angles to straight street
lines or radial to curved street lines; provided, that side lot lines run
within twenty degrees (20°) east or west from due north to due south. In the
latter case, street layout and building setbacks should also be designed so
that at least eighty percent (80%) of the buildings in the subdivision can be
oriented with their long axis running from east to west, with a possible
variation of twenty degrees (20°) to the southeast and twenty degrees (20°) to
the southwest.
      2.   Each lot must front upon a public street with at least fifty feet
(50') of right of way width. Blocks must fit readily into the overall plan of
the subdivision, and the design must evidence consideration of lot planning,
easy traffic circulations (both vehicular and pedestrian), and provide space
for public land use as may be needed in the neighborhood.
      3.   Individuals desiring access to existing township roads must obtain
the approval of the appropriate township highway commissioner with respect to
the type and size of culvert to be utilized.
   C.   Public Use And Service Areas:
      1.   Due consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably
located and of adequate size for playgrounds and parks for local or
neighborhood use as well as public service areas.
      2.   When a proposed school, neighborhood park, electric substation,
water storage tank, recreation area, or public access to water frontage is
located in whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, the city council may
require, as a condition of final plat approval, that such space within the
subdivision be reserved and not developed for a period not to exceed one year
from the date of such final plat approval. Within the one year period, the
appropriate public agency may acquire the reserved property in the manner
provided by law and before it is developed. If the reserved site is not
acquired and no legal action is filed by the appropriate public agency within
the one year period, the reservation shall become void, and the site previously
reserved may then be used for other purposes. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
   D.   Survey Monuments:
      1.   All survey monuments shall be located and be made of the appropriate
material as stated in chapter 765 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 212,
6-22-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
      2.   References must be made upon the plat to known and permanent
monuments from which future survey may be made, and the surveyor must, at the
time of making his survey, set, in such manner that they will not be moved by
frost, good and sufficient monuments marking the external boundaries of the
tract to be divided or subdivided and must designate upon the plat the points
where they may be found. These monuments must be placed at all corners, at each
end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its radius, at all angle
points in any line and at all angle points along a meander line, the points to
be not less than twenty feet (20') back from the normal water elevation of a
lake or from the bank of a stream; except, that when such corners or points
fall within a street, or proposed future street, the monuments must be placed
in the right of way line of the street. All internal boundaries, corners and
points must be monumented in the field by like monuments as defined above.
These monuments, two (2) of which must be of stone or reinforced concrete, must
be set at the opposite extremities of the property platted, placed at all block
corners, at each end of all curves, at the points where a curve changes its
radius, and at all angle points in any line. All lots must be monumented in the
field at all corners.
   E.   Lot Grading:
      1.   All grading between the right of way lines shall be completed to the
lines and grades shown on the grading sheets in the construction plans.
      2.   The full width of the right of way shall be graded including the
subgrade of the areas to be paved.
      3.   All stumps and trees that cannot be saved, along with boulders and
similar items shall be removed.
      4.   All grading in the subdivision shall be related to the topography of
the surrounding area. All street embankments shall be raised at least one and
one-half feet (11/2') above the high water elevation.
      5.   All building lots shall be graded or have natural slopes that will
properly allow surface drainage to flow away from the principal structures to
be located on the lot.
      6.   Grading in the subdivision shall provide alternate drainageways for
the purpose of carrying water away from homes and preventing damage during
periods of heavy rainfall. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-3-4: UTILITY EASEMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   All utilities must be constructed and installed underground. Utility
easements shall be provided along front, rear or side lot lines for the purpose
of erecting and maintaining one or more of the following facilities: storm
sewers, sanitary sewers, surface drainage, gas mains, water mains, and
underground electric lines, telephone lines, cable television and such other
utilities reasonably required for an urban structure. Easements shall normally
be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width except where they are needed for only
one facility such as an underground street lighting cable where six feet (6')
is sufficient. Nothing contained herein shall preclude the location of a
utility in the street if the respective company so desires.
      2.   Alternate locations for various utilities shall be decided upon by
the appropriate utility companies, subject to the approval of the city
engineer. In no case shall trees, permanent buildings or other manmade
improvements that obstruct surface drainage be placed on rear and side lot
easements.
      3.   It is the responsibility of the subdivider to notify all utility
companies in writing when the land to be developed has been graded in
accordance with the approved construction plans and is ready for installation
of a given utility.
   B.   Ten Foot Easements: When an easement will not include sanitary sewer or
surface drainage systems, a ten foot (10') easement width shall be sufficient
and the utilities located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40450415285a20d54eca53fd28c1446d8d3313de/
IMAGES/0-0-0-751.gif]
 
   C.   Fifteen Foot Easements: When an easement will include either a sanitary
sewer system or a surface drainage system, but not both systems, a fifteen foot
(15') easement shall be required and the utilities located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40450415285a20d54eca53fd28c1446d8d3313de/
IMAGES/0-0-0-753.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40450415285a20d54eca53fd28c1446d8d3313de/
IMAGES/0-0-0-755.gif]
 
   D.   Twenty Foot Easements: When a utility easement will include both a
sanitary sewer system and a surface drainage system, a twenty foot (20')
easement shall be required and the utilities located as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40450415285a20d54eca53fd28c1446d8d3313de/
IMAGES/0-0-0-757.gif]
 
   E.   Ten Foot Access Easement:
      1.   When sanitary or storm sewers are located in the back yard, a ten
foot (10') easement in the side yard will be required from the street right of
way to each manhole or inlet.
      2.   Other combinations of utilities or the inclusion of water mains or
gas mains in a rear yard easement will require a different easement design than
is shown above. When water mains and gas mains are to be located in the street
right of way, the gas main should be installed along the north and west curb
line of the street and the water main placed along the south and east curb
line. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-3-5: STORM WATER CONTROL:
   A.   All subdivisions within the jurisdictional limits of the city shall be
provided with adequate facilities for control of storm water runoff. These
storm water improvements consisting of storm sewers and/or open channels,
inlets, catch basins, manholes and a combination of temporary storage and
controlled release of storm water runoff shall be designed and constructed to
conform with standards established by the city engineer and shall adequately
drain the area being developed and also all of such other areas which naturally
drain through the area being developed. It is intended that the maximum
controlled release rate from any subdivision shall not exceed the natural safe
storm water drainage capacity of the downstream storm water drainage system as
defined in this title. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
   B.   It is anticipated in this title that a landowner shall be allowed to
let existing excess storm water runoff from tributary areas upstream from that
owner's land pass through without storage or controlled release of such runoff.
It is further anticipated that this title will require the controlled release
of excess storm water runoff resulting from development of the owner's land.
The controlled release rate of excess storm water runoff from an owner's land
shall not exceed the rate of runoff which would have occurred from that owner's
land prior to the development of that owner's land. It is presumed that prior
to development, that owner's land had a traditional agricultural use. It is
further presumed that the maximum safe storm water drainage capacity for
downstream storm water systems is the capacity required to carry a rate of
storm water runoff from a 5-year return period storm prior to the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
   C.   The following requirements shall be applicable and shall be satisfied
prior to the construction, improvement or development of any structure, project
or land which is subject to the provisions of this title:
      1.   The maximum controlled release rate for independent watershed areas
within the owner's land shall be determined in the following manner:
         a.   For that portion of the watershed outside of an owner's land, the
peak rate of runoff which would have occurred for a 5-year return period storm
under the state of development existing just prior to application for
development of an owner's land shall be calculated and determined.
         b.   For that portion of the watershed within the lands of an owner,
the peak rate of runoff which would have occurred for a 5-year return period
storm under a state of traditional agricultural usage shall be calculated and
determined.
         c.   The maximum controlled release rate for each independent
watershed area within the owner's land as it exits the owner's land for storms
up to and including the 100-year return period storm shall be the sum of
subsections C1a and C1b of this section.
         d.   The peak rate of runoff which would have occurred for a 5-year
return period storm shall be determined using the rational method or other
substantial method acceptable to the city engineer.
         e.   The 5-year and 50-year return period storm shall be determined
utilizing the most recently available information.
         f.   In the event that the downstream storm water runoff drainage
system is inadequate to accommodate the maximum release rate provided above,
then the city, at its option, may reduce the allowable release rate to that
rate permitted by the capacity of the receiving storm water runoff drainage
system and additional storage as determined by the city engineer may be
required to store that portion of the runoff exceeding the capacity of the
receiving storm water runoff drainage system.
      2.   Unless engineering evidence is presented to the city engineer
warranting exceptions, storm sewers which will drain twenty (20) acres or less
for residential development will be designed and constructed to meet the
following criteria (specific information will be obtained from the city
engineer for all other areas):
         a.   All improvements will be designed to handle runoff from a storm
having a 5-year frequency. Storm water conduit drains that discharge to open
channels shall terminate with suitable outlet structures to control soil
erosion and to prevent progressive failure of the conduit in an upstream
direction.
         b.   Inlets and/or catch basins shall be spaced so that water will not
flow over land more than five hundred feet (500') and shall be so located that
in no case will water be required to flow across a street or be retained
outside the center ten feet (10') of the drainage utility easement. Limited
temporary surface storage or runoff from storms exceeding the design frequency
may be permitted, subject to the approval of the city engineer. Inlets covered
by a metal grate should have a grate of a type that will not be hazardous to
bicyclists.
         c.   Storm sewer slopes shall be such that a minimum velocity of two
and one-half feet (21/2') per second is maintained when the pipe is flowing
full without surcharge. In cases where it is impractical to obtain the above
minimum velocity, modification shall be subject to approval by the city
engineer. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
         d.   Manholes with a minimum diameter of four feet (4') with cast iron
frames and grates meeting city standards shall be installed at any abrupt
change in direction, size, or grade of the sewer and at all other locations
necessary to limit the distance between manholes to four hundred feet (400'). A
greater distance will be allowed if it makes the manhole more accessible. This
greater distance is subject to the approval of the city engineer. (Ord. 212, 6-
22-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
         e.   Joints for storm sewer conduit may be mortar joints or bituminous
joints complying with paragraph 30.3.02B or paragraph 30.3.02C, respectively,
as specified in the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois", second edition, dated November 1973, or the latest
revision thereof.
         f.   When storm sewers are located in the back yard easement, each
inlet shall be located on or in line with the side property line common to the
access easement.
         g.   It will be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide grade
control for rear lot drainage to each lot owner. It will be the lot owner's
responsibility to maintain the drainage course and to keep it free from
features that restrict natural drainage. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-3-6: SIDEWALKS:
Concrete sidewalks at least four feet (4') wide and four inches (4") thick
shall be constructed on both sides of each street at least four and one-half
feet (41/2') from and at least four inches (4") above the backs of the curbs.
They shall be located one foot (1') inside the street right of way. However,
the city council may waive or reduce this requirement if it is established that
the reasonable anticipated growth of the area and the probable nature of its
development, its distance from concentrated urban development and developments
creating pedestrian travel and the estimated volume of vehicular travel on the
streets make such sidewalks unnecessary for the protection of the public safety
and welfare. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-3-7: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Separate Services Required: Sanitary sewers shall be constructed
throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to serve adequately each
building lot with a connection thereto.
   B.   Location: When possible, public sanitary sewers shall be located in the
north or west boulevard (between curb and sidewalk) within the street right of
way or in a fifteen foot (15') easement behind the sidewalk within the house
setback area. Parallel sewer lines along the street may be used. Manholes shall
be installed on side property lines. Sanitary sewers may be located in back
yard easements when the line is completely accessible from the downstream
manhole in the public street. This line cannot be more than five hundred feet
(500') in length. Rear yard locations can be designated only with the approval
of the city engineer.
   C.   Discharge Of Storm Water Prohibited: Under no circumstances will the
entrance of storm water to the sanitary sewers be permitted. The words "storm
water" shall be interpreted to include water from roof downspouts, basement
footing perimeter drains, yard drains, and ground water as well as surface
runoff.
   D.   Compliance With City, Sanitary District And State Requirements: All
sanitary sewer connections and disposal systems shall comply with the
ordinances of the city, the Springfield sanitary district and the requirements
of the state environmental protection agency.
   E.   Construction Specifications: Construction features and details for
sanitary sewers and appurtenances shall comply with the "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", dated
November 1973, or the latest revision thereof.
   F.   Manholes:
      1.   Manholes on sanitary sewers shall be located at the beginning and
ending of all sewer runs and at changes in slope, size, and direction. The
distance between manholes shall not exceed four hundred feet (400'), except in
locations where a greater distance will make the manholes more accessible. This
greater distance is subject to the approval of the city engineer.
      2.   Manholes shall be constructed of masonry units having an internal
diameter of not less than four feet (4'), fitted with cast iron frames, covers
and steps.
   G.   House Service Lines:
      1.   A house service sewer line having an internal diameter of not less
than six inches (6") for a multiple-family dwelling or commercial building and
four inches (4") for a single-family dwelling shall be provided from all main
sewers constructed in the street right of way to the adjacent property line of
each lot in the subdivision. A house service sewer line having an internal
diameter of not less than six inches (6") shall be provided from the main sewer
of all sewers run on easements or for a distance of five feet (5') beyond the
easements into the adjacent lot.
      2.   Each such house service line shall be adequately plugged with a
suitable disc or stopper at the end of such line to make the joint formed
completely watertight. Service line construction shall be equivalent to the
requirements for main collecting sanitary sewers.
      3.   The lowest sanitary sewer outlet elevation from a residence shall be
according to the standards of the Springfield sanitary district.
   H.   Tests: Upon completion of the sewer construction, an air test,
infiltration test or exfiltration test, as may be appropriate, shall be
conducted on the entire sewer system before any building is allowed to connect
to the system. The test shall be conducted under the supervision of a
registered professional engineer. The engineer shall furnish a certified copy
of the test results to the city engineer and the district engineer of the
Springfield sanitary district before connection of service lines. (Ord. 212, 6-
22-1985)
10-3-8: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   The installation and sterilization of all water mains shall be in
accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois" and must be approved by the city engineer.
   B.   When the subdivision is to be served by a public water system, water
mains not less than six inches (6") in diameter shall be constructed throughout
the entire subdivision, and larger diameter water mains shall be installed if
needed to provide the area fire flow required by the insurance services office
guide for determination of required fire flow. Fire hydrants shall be installed
throughout the entire system at intervals of not more than five hundred feet
(500') and shall be less if required by the fire safety division of the
department of public health and safety of the city of Springfield, with shutoff
valves at each hydrant. All fire hydrants shall be provided with two (2) to
three inch (3") nozzles with Springfield fire department threads and one to
four inch (4") steamer nozzle with Springfield fire department threads, and
shall have flow characteristics similar to those of a five and one-fourth inch
(51/4") hydrant valve.
   C.   Every water supply system shall be designed in such a manner as to
provide an area fire flow which will meet the requirements established by the
fire safety division of the Springfield fire department or the appropriate fire
agency serving the area. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-3-9: BACKFILL OVER UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
   A.   Where an underground utility is to be placed in an area which has a
permanent type street or sidewalk surface or upon which such a surface is to be
constructed within a period of one year, the backfill above the utility, or in
the case of sewers, to the level of the bottom of the permanent type surface,
shall be made with material specified by "Selected Granular Backfill" as
provided for above the top of the gravel cradle in the "Standards And
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", dated
September 1978, or the latest revision thereof. In areas not now subject to
vehicular traffic, nor, in the opinion of the city engineer, likely to be
within a period of one year, backfills may be made with selected excavation
material, free from clods and stones, provided such trench backfill is
adequately jetted from the bottom up, completely filling the trench immediately
after backfilling. Compaction of all backfill material shall be done by one of
the following methods:
      1.   Backfill shall be placed in layers not exceeding twelve inches (12")
in depth, each layer to be thoroughly tamped to the satisfaction of the city
engineer.
      2.   Backfill shall be jetted to the satisfaction of the city engineer.
After jetting, such settlement as may have occurred shall be filled with
surplus material.
   B.   Before utilities are installed, the subdivider shall certify to the
utility company that the finished grade elevation has been constructed where
the utilities are to be placed.
   C.   Where possible, underground utilities shall be installed prior to
pavement and sidewalk construction. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
10-3-10: STREET LIGHTING:
Streetlights shall be provided along public streets conforming to current IES
standard RP-8 or ANSI standard D12.1. (Ord. 212, 6-22-1985)
