VILLAGE CODE
of
LELAND, ILLINOIS
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 23-06, passed 12-5-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Leland, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 23-06, passed December 5, 2023. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 01-24
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF LELAND CODE TO
ELIMINATE THE PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND CREATE A COMBINED
PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
 
 
ADOPTED BY THE VILLAGE COUNCIL OFTHE
VILLAGE OF LELAND
 
This7th day of_May   , 2024.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the Village Council of the Village
of Leland, LaSalle County, Illinois, this 7th  day of
May    ,2024
VILLAGE OF LELAND
LELAND, ILLINOIS
ORDINANCE NO.   01-24
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF LELAND CODE TO
ELIMINATE THE PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND CREATE A COMBINED
PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS   _
 
 
WHEREAS, Section 11-13-14 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14,
grants the Village of Leland ("Village") the authority to amend provisions
of its Zoning Code from time to time; and
WHEREAS, Section 11-13-9 of the Village Code authorizes the Village Council to
consider amendments to the Leland Zoning Ordinance; and
WHEREAS, the Village has both a Plan Commission and a Zoning Board of Appeals
that are charged with reviewing different aspects of zoning matters; and
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the Village desires to provide a high level of efficiency and
effectiveness for processing zoning applications, promote efficiency
for residents, property owners, volunteers, developers, and Village staff; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Village Municipal Code, the Village proposed an
amendment and caused to be published notice of a public hearing before the
Village's Zoning
Board of Appeals to consider a petition for Village Code text amendments
to eliminate the Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals and create the
Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals; and
WHEREAS,  on April 23, 2024, the Village's Zoning Board of Appeals held a
public hearing in order to consider the application and testimony to the
proposed text amendments of the Village's Code, and recommended
eliminating the Plan Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals and creating
the Village's Combined Plan Commission and Board of Appeals; and
WHEREAS, the corporate authorities of the Village find it advisable, necessary
and in the best interest of the Village to eliminate the Plan Commission and
the Zoning Board of Appeals and combine the two into one body called
the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals; and
WHEREAS,  the corporate authorities of the Village desire to amend the various
sections
of the Village Code in order to create the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning
Board of Appeals and to strike the references to the Plan Commission and Zoning
Board of Appeals and to replace them with the Combined Plan Commission and
Zoning Board of Appeals.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED  by the Council of the Village of Leland,
LaSalle County, Illinois, as follows:
 
SECTION 1:  The recitals set forth in the preamble are hereby
incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 2:  Chapter 1, entitled "Plan Commission," of Title 3, entitled "Boards
and Commissions," of the Village Municipal Code is hereby stricken in its
entirety, and in lieu thereof as follows:
 
Chapter 1 - COMBINED PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
 
 
3-1-1 CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established a Combined Plan Commission and Zoning
Board of Appeals ("board") that shall consist of seven (7) members to serve
respectively for the following terms: two for one year, two for two years
and three for three years. The successor to each member so appointed shall
serve for a term of four years.
 
· 3-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
All appointments to the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be made by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. The members of the combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals shall reside within the Village of Leland or within territory
contiguous to the Village of Leland and not more
than one and one-half 
(1\) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included within the
corporate limits of any other municipality. No more than two (2) members at any
particular time shall reside outside the corporate boundaries. The Mayor and
Council shall have the power to remove any member of the Combined Plan
Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals for cause after public hearing.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor and Council as soon as possible for the
unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant.
 
3-1-3   : ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, RULES AND PROCEDURES:
A.   Officers:
1.   There shall be a chairman and vice chairman of
the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals both of whom shall
be appointed by the mayor from the then appointed and acting members of the
board with the advice and consent of the Village council. The chairman and the
vice chairman shall hold office until their successors are appointed. The vice
chairman shall act as chairman when the chairman is absent or is
 
 
otherwise unable to act.
2.   The Village Council may employ the Village Clerk, otherwise the board
shall appoint an acting member who shall make and keep a record of all
of its meetings and official acts. The zoning administrator shall be the
executive secretary to the board and shall attend meetings at the request of
the board.
B.   Meetings, Rules And Procedures:
1.   Meetings: All meetings of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such time as the
board may determine. As to those meetings requiring a public hearing,
there shall be not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days'
notice of the time and place of such public hearing published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. Said notice
shall contain a statement of the particular purpose of the public hearing and
a brief description of the location of the property or properties under
consideration at such public hearing and a description of the action
requested to be taken by the board.
2.   Powers Of The Chair: In all official proceedings, the chairman, or in his
or her absence, the vice chairman of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning
Board of appeals, or in his or her absence, an acting chairman appointed, for
the meeting, by the members of the board, shall have the power to
administer oaths and compel by subpoena the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of books and papers.
3.   Minutes And Records: The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. A copy
of every rule or regulation, every appearance, variation and every
recommendation, order, requirement, decision or determination of the Combined
Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filed immediately in the
office of the village clerk and shall be a public record. Where required by
this code, findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of each case and
the reasons for the granting or denial of each application shall be specified.
4.   Hearings Open To Public: All hearings shall be open to the public.
5.   Minutes Open To Public: The minutes of the board shall be open to public
examination at reasonable hours.
6.   Rules And Procedures: The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals shall adopt its own rules and procedures, not in conflict with this
section or with applicable Illinois statutes, and may require the submission of
such records, plats and other information necessary to make
its determinations. A copy of said rules and procedures, and all
recommendations thereto shall be filed in the office of the village clerk.
 
3-1-4   : JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The combined plan commission and zoning board of appeals shall
have the following powers:
A.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of the municipality.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate
geographical or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the
official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the municipality. This plan
may include reasonable requirements with reference to streets, alleys, public
grounds and other improvements hereinafter specified. The plan, as
recommended by the plan commission and as thereafter adopted in this
municipality in this state, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to
land situated within the corporate limits and
contiguous territory not more than one and one-half (1 \) miles beyond the
corporate
limits and not included in any municipality. Such plan may be implemented by
ordinances:
1.   Establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to "public improvements" as herein defined;
2.   Establishing reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course
and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school
grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water
drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection
and treatment; and
3.   May designate land suitable for annexation to the municipality and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
 
 
B.   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
C.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities, from
time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive plan.
D.   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official
plan, to further the making of these projects
and generally, to promote the realization of the official comprehensive plan.
E.   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official
plan, to further the making of these projects, and generally, to promote the
realization of the official comprehensive plan.
F.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
chapter as may be conferred by the village council.
G.   To hear and decide all matters upon which it is required to pass under all
of the provisions of this code, including, specifically, but not by way of
limitation, all zoning matters and subdivision matters upon which
it is required to pass, including, in general, amendments to this code, and
including, specifically, amendments to the zoning ordinance of the village and
the zoning map.
H.   To hear and pass upon applications for variations from the terms provided
in the zoning title in the manner prescribed by, and subject to, the standards
established therein.
I.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it and upon which it
is required to pass under the zoning title or any other title of this code,
and/or as prescribed by the Illinois Municipal Code or any other statute.
 
3-1-5   : COMPENSATION:
A.   Members of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals shall
receive compensation as may be established by the Village Council. If the
Village Council chooses to employ the Village Clerk to make and keep
a record of the meetings and official acts, the Village Clerk shall
receive compensation as may be established by the Village Council.
B.   The board shall keep an accurate record of the attendance and shall submit
such record to the village treasurer.
 
3-1-6   : EFFECT OF BOARD DECISIONS:
All decisions and findings of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals, whether on appeal, upon application for a variation or a special use,
or for an amendment to the zoning ordinance text or map, after such hearings as
may be required by law, shall be recommendations only to the Village
Council. The Village Council shall, in all instances, make the final
determination, which shall be subject to review as by law may be provided. All
variations shall be implemented by the Village Council by the adoption of
ordinances.
 
 
 
 
3-1-7   : EXPENSES:
The Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals may, at the discretion
of the Village Council, employ necessary help whose salaries, wages and other
necessary expenses shall be provided for by adequate appropriation made by
the Council from public funds. If the combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or services,
it may be done upon authority from the Council and appropriations by the
Council therefor.
 
3-1-8   : REFERENCE TO TERMS:
Wherever in this code reference is made to the "plan commission", "planning
commission", "zoning board of appeals" or the "board of appeals", said
terms shall mean the "Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals"
established pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
 
SECTION 3:  Section 2, entitled "Zoning Board of Appeals"
of Chapter 13, entitled "Administration and Enforcement, of Title 11 entitled
"Zoning Regulations," of the Village Municipal Code is hereby deleted in its
entirety, and designated "Reserved."
 
SECTION 4:  All paiis of the Village Code in conflict with the terms
or provisions of this Ordinance shall be and the same are hereby amended or
repealed to the extent of such conflict and said Village Code and all other
existing ordinances shall otherwise remain in full force and
 
 
SECTION 5. The corporate authorities of the Village intend that this Ordinance
will be
made part of the Village Code and that sections of this Ordinance can be renumbered or
relettered and the word or definition contained in this Ordinance can be
changed to "Article,"
"Chapter," "Paragraph," "Section," or some other appropriate word or phrase to
accomplish
codification, and regardless of whether this Ordinance is ever codified, the Ordinance can be
renumbered or relettered and typographical errors and definitions consistent
with this Ordinance
can be corrected with the authorization of the Village Attorney, or his or her designee.
 
SECTION 6. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Ordinance or any part thereof is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance, or any part thereof. The corporate authorities hereby declare that
they would ha\':: passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective.
 
SECTION 7. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law.
 
SECTION 8: Publication in pamphlet form is hereby authorized.
 
 
Adopted this 7th day of May
follows:
Ayes:
, 2024, pursuant to a roll call vote as
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1267_4357x480.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1270_5044x563.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273_8365x2346.jpg]
 
Nays:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1276_4549x1554.jpg]
Approved by me this   7th
 
 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS
 
 
COUNTY OF LASALLE
 
)   ss.
 
 
 
I, Susan Kelly,  Village Clerk of
the Village of Leland, Leland, Illinois, and custodian of
± ,
the records of said Village and keeper of the seal thereof, do hereby certify
that the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance No. 01-24
entitled "AMENDING VARIOUS SECTIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF LELAND CODE TO ELIMINATE
THE
PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND CREATE A COMBINED PLAN
COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS" passed and
approved at
a regular meeting thereof, held in the Council chambers in the Village of Leland, on
the 7th day of May    , 2024.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1279_3508x825.jpg]
 
Village of Leland, Leland, Illinois
 
 
..)-GEOF i.?
§I   ?
?
CORPORATE
SEAL
 
LELAND, IL
60531
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
 
 
COUNTY OF LASALLE
 
 
SS.
 
 
 
I, Susan Kelly, certify that I am the duly appointed and acting municipal clerk
of the Village of Leland, LaSalle County, Illinois.
 
?
I further certify that on May 7    ,2024, at a regular meeting held at the
Village
Hall in the Village of Leland, the Council of the Village of Leland passed and approved
Ordinance No. 01-24 entitled "entitled "An Ordinance AMENDING VARIOUS
SECTIONS OF THE ILLAGE OF LELAND CODE TO ELIMINATE THE PLAN
COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND CREATE A COMBINED
 
 
 
 
PLAN COMMISSION AND ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS” which ordinance provided by its
terms that it should be published in pamphlet form. I further
ce1iify that the pamphlet form of Ordinance No. 01-24,  including the Ordinance
and a cover sheet thereof, was
3
pre  ared and a copy of such ordinance was
posted in the Village Hall commencing on May .
13 th , 2024  and continuing for at least ten (10) days thereafter. Copies
of such ordinance were also available for public inspection upon request.
 
Given under my hand and the corporate seal of the Village of Leland, Illinois,
this 13 th day of May 2024.
 
 
Given under my hand and the corporate seal of the Village of Leland, Illinois,
this?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Susan Kelly, Village Clerk of the
Village of Leland, Leland, Illinois
 
 
 
LELAND, ILLINOIS RESOLUTION NO. R-     O2    -24
A RESOLUTION APPOINTING THE INITIAL MEMBERS OF THE COMBINED PLAN COMMISSION AND
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
 
WHEREAS,  pursuant to Illinois Revised Statutes 5 ILCS 430/1-1, et seq. and the
Village of Leland Municipal
Code, the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village Council, shall
appoint members to the newly created Combined Plan Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals for the Village of Leland; and
 
WHEREAS,  the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village Council, has
designated the following to serve as the initial members of the Combined Plan
Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals for the Village of Leland for the term
set opposite his/her name.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED  by the Mayor and Village Council of the Village
of Leland, County of LaSalle, State of Illinois:
 
Section 1:  That the village council hereby incorporate the foregoing preamble
clauses into this Resolution.
Section 2: Pursuant to Ordinance Number 0- I   -24, amending the Village of
Leland Municipal Code by providing for the elimination of the Plan Commission
and the Zoning Board of Appeals, all current and holdover
appointments to the Plan Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals are hereby
terminated.
Section 3: That the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village Council,
hereby appoints each of the following as a member (Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson, as noted) of the newly created Combined Plan Commission
and Zoning Board of Appeals for the Village of Leland for the term set opposite
his/her name:
Name   Initial Term
 
 
Al Kinney - Chairperson Karen Short
Chris Bland Ryan Finley Steve Gates
Justin Pennington - Vice-Chairperson Tom Grzanich
One-year term, expiring April 30, 2025
One-year term, expiring April 30, 2025
Two-year term, expiring April 30, 2026
Two-year term, expiring April 30, 2026
Three-year term, expiring April 30, 2027
Three-year term, expiring April 30, 2027
Three-year term, expiring April 30, 2027
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4: 
That this Resolution shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval as required by law.
 
ADOPTED by the Council of the Village of Leland, LaSalle County, Illinois this
7th   day of   May   , 2024.
 
 
 
Ayes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nayes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absent:
?·?   
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1285_1746x403.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1288_2399x422.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1291_3345x360.jpg]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1294_4039x10.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1297_9521x1526.jpg]
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
)   SS.
COUNTY OF LASALLE )
 
 
I, SUSAN KELLY, Village Clerk of the Village ofLeland, Leland, Illinois, and
custodian of the records of said Village and keeper of the seal thereof,
do hereby certify
that the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution entitled "Resolution
Appointing the Initial Members of the Combined Plan Commission and Zoning
Board of Appeals" at the regular meeting thereof, held in the Council chambers
in the Village of Leland, on the 7th-   day of   May   , 2024.
 
 
s??k of the Village of Leland, Leland, Illinois
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/IMAGES/0-0-0-1300_1362x364.jpg]
 
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 4-7-8 RAFFLES MANAGER AND CHAPTER 4-7-
11 LIMITATIONS SUBPARAGRAPH A(l AND 2) OF THE LELAND VILLAGE CODE
 
ADOPTED BY THE VILLAGE COUNCIL OFTHE
VILLAGE OF LELAND
This 3rd day of ·December   , 2024.
 
 
 
 
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the Village Council of the Village
of Leland, LaSalle County, Illinois, this 4th   day of December   , 2024
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VILLAGE OF LELAND LELAND, ILLINOIS
ORDINANCE NO. 03-24
 
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 4-7-8 RAFFLES
MANAGER AND CHAPTER 4-7-11 LIMITATIONS
SUBPARAGRAPH A(l AND 2) OF THE LELAND VILLAGE CODE
 
WHEREAS,  Section 2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 230 IL grants the Village
of Leland ("Village") the authority and responsibility to provide for
limitations upon (1) the aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise
awarded by a license in a single raffle, (2) themaximum
retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a single raffle, etc.; and 
 
 
WHEREAS,  Section 5 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 230 ILCS 15/5 grants the
Village of Leland ("Village") the authority to set the amount of a
fidelity bond to be given to the Raffles Manager in favor of the
organization in order to obtain a raffle license; and
 
0
WHEREAS, the corporate authorities of the Village find it advisable, necessary
and inthe best interest of the Village to update the amount of
the fidelity bond to be given by the Raffles Manager in favor of the
organization in order to obtain a raffle license; and
 
WHEREAS, the corporate authorities of the Village find it advisable, necessary
and in the the best interest of the Village to increase the maximum of both 
(1) the aggregate retail value of
 
all prizes or merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle and (2) the
retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a single raffle.
',
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council o the Village of Leland, LaSalle
County, Illinois, as follows:
 
SECTION 1:  That the above and foregoing recitals be and are hereby
incorporated herein by reference as findings of fact by the Village Council.
 
SECTION 2: That the Municipal Code of the Village of Leland at Title 4, Chapter
7, Section 8, entitled "Raffles Manager" is hereby amended as follows:
 
4-7-8 RAFFLES MANAGER
The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of a
single Raffle Manager designated by the licensee. The Manager shall give
a fidelity bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in favor of
the licensee conditioned upon his honesty in the perfonnance of his duties. The
terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
Village not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The Village
Council may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision
in the licenses issued to an organization t1nder 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes
15/1 et seq.; provided that a license containing such waiver provision shall be
granted only by unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization.
 
SECTION 3: That the Municipal Code of the Village of Leland at Title 4, Chapter
7, Section 11, entitled "Limitations" is hereby amended as follows:
 
4-7-11 LIMITATIONS
A.   The following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise
and chances in connection with any raffle conducted with the Village:
1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee
in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars 
($500,000.00).
2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a single
raffle shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
4.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed three hundred sixty five (365) days.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4: Except as otherwise specifically amended hereby, all other
provisions of Title 4, Chapter 7 "RAFFLES" of the Leland Village Code remain in
full force and effect
 
SECTION 5: This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon passage,
approval
and publication as provided by law. Publication in pamphlet form is hereby
specifically
authorized.
 
Adopted this 3rd   day of _December, 2024, pursuant to a roll call vote as
follows:
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303_5216x2783.jpg]
Ayes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nays:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absent:
 
 
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1306_5264x2246.jpg]
Approved by me this 3rd
 
 
 
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
Susan Kelly
 
 
 
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS COUNTY OF LASALLE )
)
)   SS.
 
I, Susan Kelly,  Village Clerk of the Village of Leland, Leland, Illinois, and
custodian of the records of said Village and keeper of the
seal thereof, do hereby certify
that the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance No. 03-
24 ,
entitled  "AMENDING CHAPTER 4-7-8 RAFFLES MANAGER AND CHAPTER 4-7-11
LIMITATIONS SUBPARAGRAPH A(l AND 2) OF THE LELAND
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1309_3719x892.jpg]
VILLAGE CODE" passed and approved at a regular meeting thereof, held in the
Council chambers in the Village of Leland, on the 3rd day of December 2024.
 
 
usan Kelly, Village Clerk o   he Village of Leland, Leland, Illinois
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1312_1756x691.jpg]
 
CORPORATE SEAL
 
LELAND, IL
60531
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS COUNTY OF LASALLE )
)
)   SS.
 
I, Susan Kelly,  certify that I am the duly appointed and acting municipal
clerk of _ the Village of Leland, LaSalle County, Illinois.
I further certify that on December 3, 2024,at a regular meeting held at the
Village Hall in the Village of Leland, the Council of the Village of Leland
passed and
approved Ordinance No. 03-24 entitled "An Ordinance AMENDING
CHAPTER 4-7-8 RAFFLES MANAGER AND CHAPTER 4-7-11 LIMITATIONS
SUBPARAGRAPH A(l AND 2) OF THE LELAND VILLAGE CODE” which   
ordinance provided by its terms that it should be published in pamphlet form. I
further certify that the pamphlet form of Ordinance No. 03-24, including the
Ordinance
and a cover sheet thereof, was prepared and a copy of such ordinance was posted
in the
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1315_4396x2934.jpg]
Village Hall commencing on December 4th, 2024 and continuing for at least ten
(10) days thereafter. Copies of such ordinance were also available for public
inspection
upon request.
Given under my hand and the corporate seal of the Village of Leland, Illinois
this
3rd day of December , 2024.
 
 
 
an Kelly, Village C ec:r.::.-i. :
Village of Leland, Lei
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1318_988x220.jpg]
 
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1321_873x364.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1324_633x307.jpg]
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 5-03
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE LELAND VILLAGE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the council of the village of Leland, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of Leland, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the village as enacted by the council of the Village
of Leland.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with a continuous supplement service,
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the official village code
is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the proper place in
each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be maintained in the
office of the village clerk, certified as to correctness and available for
inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, appropriation
ordinances, contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants, salary ordinances, ordinances
establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys or other public places,
improvement ordinances, ordinances relating to elections, ordinances relating
to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the village, ordinances
establishing Social Security, zoning map amendments, specific zoning variances
and conditional uses, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances, special
assessment and annexation ordinances and ordinances adopting any comprehensive
plan shall continue in full force and effect unless specifically repealed or
amended by a provision of the village code. Such ordinances are not intended to
be included in the official village code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 4th day of March, 2003.
APPROVED this 4th day of March, 2003.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the village council, this village code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Leland. This
village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the LELAND VILLAGE CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as provided in
section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this village code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Form Of Amendments; Submission To Codifier: Any ordinance amending the
village code shall set forth the title, chapter and section number of the
section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute sufficient
compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the amendment or
revision by ordinance of any part of this village code. All such amendments or
revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the
said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its proper place in
each copy of this village code. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the village code.
(2003 Code)
   B.   Incorporation Of Amendments: Any addition or amendments to this code,
when passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the council to make
the same a part of this code, shall be deemed to be incorporated in this code
so that a reference to the village code of Leland shall be understood to
include them. (1966 Code § 20.201; amd. 2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this village code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village council. (2003
Code)
1-1-5: COPIES OF CODE:
   A.   Distribution Of Copies: All of the printed copies of this code
belonging to the village shall be deposited with the clerk. He shall deliver
one copy thereof to each member of the council and copies to such other persons
as the council may direct. (1966 Code § 20.302)
   B.   Presentation Of Copies: The council shall have the power to extend or
reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by presenting them with a copy
of this code, bound at the expense of the village, as to them seems suitable.
(1966 Code § 20.303)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this village code are
hereby repealed, except such as are included in this village code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; ordinances establishing social security; special assessment
ordinances; zoning map amendments; specific zoning variances; specific zoning
conditional uses; and all special ordinances. (1966 Code § 20.401; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the village code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this village code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1966 Code §
20.402; amd. 2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance. (1966 Code
§ 20.403)
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this village code. (1966 Code § 20.403;
amd. 2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this village code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The village council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this village code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this village code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included. Words in the present shall include the future; provided, that these
rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this village code
which contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. (1966 Code § 20.102; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in
this village code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent of
the council maybe fully carried out. (1966 Code § 20.106)
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the village has
been changed in the content of this village code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2003
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The village code of the village of Leland.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the village council of the village of
Leland.
COUNTY: The county of LaSalle, state of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
village of Leland".
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the village shall be May 1 through April 30.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of President; Mayor.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words "of the village of Leland, LaSalle County" and shall be taken to
mean the officer or employee of the village having the title mentioned or
performing the duties indicated.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRESIDENT; MAYOR: A. The village president may be referred to as the mayor of
the village.
   B.   The term "village president", as used in any ordinance, resolution,
motion, or other action of the corporate authorities, shall be construed as
meaning "mayor"; and the term "mayor" whenever so used shall be construed to
mean the "village president".
   C.   The title "mayor", as used in the minutes of the meetings of the
corporate authorities or any other official document, shall be construed as
meaning "village president".
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Leland, county of LaSalle, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (Ord. 161, 9-3-1963; amd. 1966 Code §§ 5.602, 20.102,
20.103, 20.105; 2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the village code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Administrative Compliance Tickets
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this code or state statute, any
person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of
this code shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may
include a requirement that the offending party perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or
upon public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities. A
violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the evidence. (1966
Code § 20.104; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this village code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section. (2003 Code)
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this village code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed,
but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the
same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(1966 Code § 20.104; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2003 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee
is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1966
Code § 20.105)
1-4-4: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE TICKETS:
   A.   Definition: "Administrative compliance ticket", referred to as "ACT",
is defined as a courtesy ticket used in the case of certain ordinance
violations in lieu of arrest or penalty as otherwise provided in this code.
   B.   Issuance Of ACT: An ACT may be issued by village police officers, the
village code enforcement officer or such other persons as authorized by the
mayor. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require issuance of an ACT
in lieu of arrest or penalty as otherwise provided in this code.
   C.   Procedure: Any person accused of violating any provision of this code,
except traffic offenses that must be reported to secretary of state in
accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-204 may be issued an ACT in
lieu of arrest or penalty as otherwise provided in this code, which will allow
the violator to:
      1.   Pay an administrative fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to the
village within seven (7) days of the issuance of an ACT as settlement and
compromise of the claim against the violator. In the event payment of the
twenty five dollar ($25.00) ACT has not been received within said seven (7)
days, the administrative fee will be increased to fifty dollars ($50.00) for
the period beginning the eighth day and including the thirtieth day after the
issuance of the ACT and the offender shall have until the close of business on
the thirtieth day to satisfy said claim; or
      2.   Correct, repair, or rectify any condition, which constitutes a
continuing violation of this code, within the periods specified in the ACT.
   D.   Repeat Offenders: The administrative fee for any person accused of
violating an ordinance and which same ordinance such person has been convicted
of violating or has paid an administrative fee within the past twelve (12)
months shall be increased by an additional twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
such second offense and by an additional fifty dollars ($50.00) for such third
and any subsequent violations.
   E.   Compliance With ACT: If any person to whom an ACT has been issued fails
to settle and pay the claim within the period specified in this section or
correct, repair or rectify the violation within the period specified in the
ACT, a notice to appear may be issued to said person and filed with the clerk
of the circuit court of LaSalle County, and that person shall be subject to
prosecution in the circuit court and shall be subject to the fines and
penalties authorized by law and ordinance. (Ord. 03-12, 3-6-2012)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village Seal
1-5-2: Municipal Elections
1-5-1: VILLAGE SEAL:
The seal of the village shall be a circular disc with the word "Seal" in the
center, and the words "Village of Leland, La Salle County, Illinois" on the
periphery thereof. (1966 Code § 5.601)
1-5-2: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
Elections for municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute and at the
time prescribed by statute. (1966 Code § 5.604)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Terms Of Office
1-6-2: Powers And Duties
1-6-3: Vacancies In Office
1-6-4: Bonds
1-6-5: Meetings
1-6-6: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-7: Ordinances, Resolutions, Motions
1-6-1: ELECTION; TERMS OF OFFICE:
As is provided by statute, the village council shall consist of the mayor and
four (4) commissioners who are elected at large for four year terms. Said
election procedures shall be in compliance with statute. Two (2) of the
commissioners elected at the April 2, 1991, consolidated election shall serve
four (4) year terms and until successors are elected and have qualified, with
such successors to be elected in the 1995 consolidated election, and every four
(4) years thereafter. Two (2) of the commissioners elected at the April 2,
1991, consolidated election shall serve two (2) year terms and until successors
are elected and have qualified, with the successors to be elected in the 1993
consolidated election, and every four (4) years thereafter. The mayor elected
at the April 2, 1991, consolidated election shall serve a four (4) year term
and until his successor is elected and has qualified, with the successor to be
elected at the 1995 consolidated election, and every four (4) years thereafter.
The determination of which two (2) commissioners elected at the April 2, 1991,
consolidated election shall serve four (4) year terms and which two (2)
commissioners shall serve two (2) year terms shall be decided by drawing lots
following the April 2, 1991, consolidated election. (1966 Code § 1.101; amd.
Ord., 1-15-1991; 2003 Code)
1-6-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village council shall be the governing body of the village and shall have
the powers and duties prescribed by statute. (1966 Code § 1.101)
1-6-3: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
   A.   Village Council: Vacancies occurring in the village council shall be
filled by the remaining members, as is provided by Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(1966 Code § 1.102; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Mayor: The commissioner of accounts and finances shall be vice
president of the council, and in case of vacancy in the office of mayor, or the
absence or inability of the mayor, shall perform the duties of mayor. (1966
Code § 1.311)
1-6-4: BONDS:
The mayor and each commissioner shall give a bond in such sum as may be
determined by the council, such bond to be not less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) and to be approved by the council and filed with, recorded, and
preserved by the village clerk, as is provided by statute. (1966 Code § 1.109;
amd. 2003 Code)
1-6-5: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the council shall be held the
first Tuesday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. in the council room of
the village hall; provided, that if such meeting date should occur on a legal
holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next Tuesday thereafter. (Ord. 10-95,
6-6-1995)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or any
two (2) commissioners upon a twenty four (24) hour notice to every member of
the council; provided, that the requirement of a notice shall not be binding in
any special meeting at which all of the members of the council are present, and
notice is waived. Such notices may be served by any member of the police
department or by any other person in the village, and it shall be the duty of
the village clerk when given copies of such notices to serve the same or cause
the same to be served immediately. Public notice must also be given as
prescribed in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.02. (1966 Code § 1.111; amd.
2003 Code)
   C.   Open To Public: All meetings of the council, whether regular or
special, shall be open to the public. (1966 Code § 1.122)
   D.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all regular and special
meetings of the council; provided, that in the absence of the mayor, the
commissioner of accounts and finances shall be the presiding officer as is
provided by statute. (1966 Code § 1.112)
   E.   Addressing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to address or
attempt to address any regular or special meeting of the council excepting upon
the consent of the mayor, or with the consent of a majority of the members
present. (1966 Code § 1.113)
   F.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the council. Any person violating an provision of
this subsection shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and may be summarily
ejected from the council room and the village hall. (1966 Code § 1.114; amd.
2003 Code)
1-6-6: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: The following rules shall govern the proceedings of
the council. A quorum being present, the council shall proceed to transact the
business before it in the following manner, unless the same be temporarily
suspended by the consent of the majority of the members:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Reading of minutes.
      3.   Reports of village officers.
      4.   Petitions; communications.
      5.   Presentation and consideration of ordinances.
      6.   New business.
      7.   Adjournment. (1966 Code § 1.128)
   B.   Robert's Rules Of Order: Robert's rules of order shall govern the
proceedings of the council where applicable and when not in conflict with
statutes or ordinances. (1966 Code § 1.121)
   C.   Voting; Quorum:
      1.   The mayor and each commissioner shall have the right to vote on all
questions coming before the council. Three (3) members of the council shall
constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of the three (3) members shall be
necessary to adopt any motion, resolution or ordinance, unless a greater number
is required by statute. (1966 Code § 1.123)
      2.   Upon every vote, the "yeas" and "nays" shall be called and recorded.
      3.   Every motion, resolution or ordinance shall be reduced to writing
and read before a vote is taken thereon, and all council members present at any
meeting shall vote thereon. (1966 Code § 1.124)
1-6-7: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS:
   A.   Style Of Ordinances: The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it
ordained by the council of the village of Leland". (1966 Code § 1.124)
   B.   Veto; Signing And Recording Ordinances: The mayor shall have no power
to veto, but every resolution, ordinance or warrant passed or ordered by the
council must be signed by the mayor, or by two (2) commissioners, and all
ordinances and resolutions shall be filed for record before they shall be in
force. (1966 Code § 1.125)
   C.   Certain Ordinances On File Prior To Passage: Every ordinance or
resolution appropriating any money, or ordering any street improvement or
sewer, or making or authorizing the making of any contract, or granting any
franchise, right or license to occupy or use the streets, alleys, highways,
bridges, viaducts, public property or public places in the village for any
purpose, shall remain on file with the village clerk for public inspection, in
the form in which it is finally passed, at least one week before the final
passage. (1966 Code § 1.126)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Departments Established
1-7-2: Assignment Of Departments
1-7-3: Appointment And Discharge Of Department Personnel
1-7-4: Powers And Duties Of Commissioners
1-7-1: DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED:
The village government shall be divided into the five (5) following
departments, as is provided by statute, and each commissioner shall be the
superintendent of a department. The mayor shall be superintendent of the
department of public affairs, and the other commissioners shall be allotted to
the four (4) other departments by the council as is provided by statute. (1966
Code § 1.103; amd. 2003 Code)
Department of public affairs
Department of accounts and finances
Department of public health and safety
Department of streets and public improvements
Department of public property (1966 Code § 1.103)
1-7-2: ASSIGNMENT OF DEPARTMENTS:
The mayor shall be commissioner of public affairs, and as such, he shall be
superintendent of that department; and the council shall, at the first regular
meeting after the election of its members, designate by a majority vote, one
commissioner to be commissioner of accounts and finances, who shall be
superintendent of that department; one to be commissioner of streets and public
improvements, who shall be superintendent of that department, and who, ex
officio, shall be commissioner of public works; one to be commissioner of
public health and safety, who shall be superintendent of that department; and
one to be commissioner of public property and as such, shall be superintendent
of that department; but such designation may be changed by the council whenever
it appears that the public service would be benefited thereby. (1966 Code §
1.105; amd. 2003 Code)
1-7-3: APPOINTMENT AND DISCHARGE OF DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
   A.   Department Heads: The council shall have the right, power and authority
to appoint and discharge the heads of all the principal departments subordinate
to the five (5) departments. (1966 Code § 1.107)
   B.   Officers, Assistants And Employees: Except as otherwise specifically
provided, all officers, assistants and employees of each of the respective
departments, except those provided by ordinance to be elected or to be
appointed by the council, shall be appointed by the commissioner of each of the
respective departments, and may be discharged by him when, in his judgment, the
efficient conduct of the village's affairs shall demand it. (1966 Code § 1.108)
1-7-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Departmental Rules And Regulations; Enforcement Of Provisions:
      1.   The commissioner of each department shall make and enforce such
rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the law or ordinance or the rules
and regulations adopted by the council, as may be necessary to secure efficient
conduct of the service of his department or the business in charge thereof.
(1966 Code § 1.106)
      2.   Each commissioner shall have authority to make the rules and
regulations to govern the conduct of the officers and employees assigned to the
department of which he is the superintendent. Such rules shall be binding on
and be obeyed by all such officers and employees until and unless the same are
revoked or altered by the council or by the commissioner. (1966 Code § 1.116)
      3.   Each commissioner shall have the power and authority to enforce all
ordinance provisions relating to anything under his control as superintendent
of a department of the village. (1966 Code § 1.117)
   B.   Estimate Of Expenses: It shall be the duty of each commissioner to
present to the village clerk each year a detailed statement of the expenses
which are anticipated will be necessary for the operation of his department for
the coming fiscal year. Such statements shall be presented to the commissioner
of accounts and finances on or before the third meeting in May of each year.
(1966 Code § 1.118)
ARTICLE A. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Superintendent Of Department
1-7A-2: Powers And Duties Of Mayor
1-7A-3: Village Personnel In Department; Supervision
1-7A-1: SUPERINTENDENT OF DEPARTMENT:
The mayor shall be commissioner of public affairs and shall be superintendent
of the department of public affairs, and shall report to the council for its
action all matters requiring the attention of any department. (1966 Code §
1.201)
1-7A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF MAYOR:
The mayor shall:
   A.   Be generally charged with and responsible for the proper conduct of the
village affairs and the enforcement of all ordinances of the village, as chief
executive. (1966 Code § 1.204)
   B.   Have and exercise all the powers and perform all the duties that are or
may be prescribed by law, or by the village ordinances.
   C.   Be the chief executive officer and representative of the village.
   D.   Sign all contracts and warrants on behalf of the village, and all
licenses issued by the village.
   E.   Cause to be prepared and published all statements and reports required
to be prepared and published by law, or by ordinance or resolution of the
council. (1966 Code § 1.202)
   F.   Cause to be prepared and published all ordinances of the village which
are required by law to be published. (1966 Code § 1.205)
1-7A-3: VILLAGE PERSONNEL IN DEPARTMENT; SUPERVISION:
   A.   The village attorney is hereby assigned to the department of public
affairs and shall be appointed by the mayor.
   B.   The mayor shall have control and supervision over all other officers
and employees, and all such officers and employees shall perform their duties
subject to the supervision of the mayor, and all officers and employees not
specifically assigned to some other department are hereby assigned to the
department of public affairs. (1966 Code § 1.203)
ARTICLE B. DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Superintendent Of Department
1-7B-2: Powers And Duties Of Commissioner
1-7B-3: Village Personnel In Department
1-7B-1: SUPERINTENDENT OF DEPARTMENT:
The commissioner of accounts and finances shall be superintendent of the
department of accounts and finances, and shall have supervision over and
direction of all accounts and finances of the village, and shall have charge of
and supervision and direction over all records of the village and all officers,
boards and departments insofar as the accounts and records of the village are
concerned. (1966 Code § 1.301)
1-7B-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER:
The commissioner of accounts and finances shall:
   A.   Accounts And Records: Cause proper accounts and records to be kept and
proper reports to be made by the officers or departments of the village,
insofar as the accounts and finances of the village are concerned. (1966 Code §
1.302)
   B.   Audits: Audit, or cause to be audited, at frequent intervals, the
accounts and records of officers or employees of the village who may receive or
disburse money. (1966 Code § 1.303)
   C.   Inspect Accounts: Inspect, or cause to be inspected, all records or
accounts required to be kept in any of the offices or departments of the
village, insofar as the accounts and finances of the village are concerned, and
shall, at least once in every month, report the result of such inspection to
the council with such recommendations as he shall see fit to make. (1966 Code §
1.304)
   D.   Bills, Demands And Claims: Examine, or cause to be examined, and report
to the council, upon all bills, accounts, payrolls, demands and claims before
they are acted upon, unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (1966 Code
§ 1.305)
   E.   Collect Money: Collect, or cause to be collected, all claims, demands,
license fees, inspection fees, franchise taxes, fines, penalties, forfeitures,
rentals, and monies which may be due or become due to the village. (1966 Code §
1.306)
   F.   Report On Failure To Pay: Report to the council any failure to make a
report, or to pay monies due the village, with such recommendations in relation
thereto as may be deemed proper. (1966 Code § 1.307)
   G.   Inventory And Maps: Keep an accurate inventory of all public property
of the village used or controlled by any department thereof, and keep accurate
maps, plats and records of all such public works, lands or property owned by
the village. (1966 Code § 1.309)
   H.   Bonds: Require that every officer or employee having the care or
custody of funds of the village shall, before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices, give bond to the village, according to law, with good and
sufficient security, and in such amount as the council shall by ordinance or
resolution prescribe. (1966 Code § 1.310)
   I.   Printing: Have charge of and supervision over all printing by or for
the village, unless otherwise provided. (1966 Code § 1.312)
   J.   Supplies: Order all stationery, blank books and job printing, on
requisition signed by the head of the department concerned. (1966 Code § 1.313)
1-7B-3: VILLAGE PERSONNEL IN DEPARTMENT:
The treasurer, the clerk, and their employees, bookkeepers and accountants are
hereby distributed and assigned to the department of accounts and finances and
shall be under the supervision and direction of the commissioner thereof. (1966
Code § 1.308)
ARTICLE C. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Village Personnel In Department; Supervision
1-7C-2: Powers And Duties Of Commissioner
1-7C-1: VILLAGE PERSONNEL IN DEPARTMENT; SUPERVISION:
   A.   The chief of police and all police officers and employees in the police
department shall be assigned to the department of public health and safety, and
shall be under the supervision of the commissioner thereof. (1966 Code § 1.401)
   B.   Such employees as may be designated by the council for the department
of public health and safety are hereby assigned to and shall be under the
control of the commissioner of public health and safety. (1966 Code § 1.405)
1-7C-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER:
The commissioner of public health and safety shall:
   A.   Enforcement Of Ordinances: Be charged with enforcement of all
ordinances and resolutions relating to traffic and shall enforce all ordinances
relating to public health and the police department. (1966 Code § 1.407)
   B.   Buildings: Have supervision over the construction and repair of all
buildings assigned to the department of public health and safety and to the
police department. (1966 Code § 1.406)
   C.   Bills: Have cognizance of all bills for the police department and
salaries of the police officers, and shall have the power to approve the same
if they are correct. (1966 Code § 1.406; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Purchases: Have charge of the purchase of apparatus and supplies for
the department of public health and safety and the police department. (1966
Code § 1.404)
ARTICLE D. DEPARTMENT OF STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Village Personnel In Department; Supervision
1-7D-2: Powers And Duties Of Commissioner
1-7D-3: Funds For Street Construction And Repair
1-7D-1: VILLAGE PERSONNEL IN DEPARTMENT; SUPERVISION:
All civil engineers, all employees of the street department, inspectors, and
all other officers and employees employed in connection with the work of said
department are hereby assigned to the department of streets and public
improvements and shall be under the direction of the commissioner thereof.
(1966 Code § 1.505)
1-7D-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Supervising Duties:
      1.   Public Ways And Improvements: The commissioner of streets and public
improvements shall have authority over and charge of the cleaning, sprinkling
and repair of streets and public places, and the construction, making and
reconstruction of all street improvements, paving, curbing, sidewalks, sewers,
bridges, viaducts, and all public improvements and the repair thereof unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. (1966 Code § 1.501)
      2.   Public Utilities: The commissioner of streets and public
improvements shall have supervision over all public utilities and all persons
or corporations rendering service in the village under any franchise, contract,
or grant made or granted by the council or the state, and shall report to the
council or other proper officers any failure of such person or corporation to
render service, observe the requirements or conditions of the franchise,
contract or grant under which such public utility is operated. (1966 Code §
1.503)
   B.   Additional Powers And Duties: The commissioner of streets and public
improvements shall:
      1.   Approve the estimates of any civil engineer in the employ of the
village which may be made from time to time, of the cost of such work as the
same progresses, and recommend to the council the acceptance of such work done
or improvements made when completed according to contract.
      2.   Have charge of all bridges and have charge of enforcing the
provisions of ordinances relating to street obstructions, billboards, signs,
and scattering of wastepaper on the street. (1966 Code § 1.502)
      3.   Have charge of the purchase of all apparatus and supplies of his
department. (1966 Code § 1.504)
      4.   Perform such other duties as may be required by ordinance or
resolution. (1966 Code § 1.502)
1-7D-3: FUNDS FOR STREET CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
All repairs, construction and reconstruction of any street adjunct or
appurtenances thereto which may be paid in whole or in part out of the monies
allotted to the village from the state as the village's share of the motor fuel
tax shall be under the control and supervision of the commissioner of streets
and public improvements. (1966 Code § 1.506)
ARTICLE E. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Village Personnel In Department; Supervision
1-7E-2: Powers And Duties Of Commissioner
1-7E-3: Assistance
1-7E-1: VILLAGE PERSONNEL IN DEPARTMENT; SUPERVISION:
The pumping station attendant, water meter readers, and all other employees of
the waterworks department shall be assigned to and under the control of the
commissioner of public property. (1966 Code § 1.601)
1-7E-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Supervisory Duties: The commissioner of public property shall have
charge of and supervision over:
      1.   Waterworks: The village waterworks system, water, and water
department. (1966 Code § 1.601)
      2.   Streetlights: All streetlights and lighting and shall be charged
with keeping same in good condition. (1966 Code § 1.602)
      3.   Public Buildings, Parks And Grounds: All public buildings, public
grounds, parks, and playgrounds belonging to the village, and all plants,
trees, and shrubbery contained therein, and all officers and employees employed
in or about said parks and playgrounds, and all property belonging to said
parks and playgrounds or kept and used in connection therewith.
      4.   Village Hall And Other Property: The village hall and the janitoring
thereof and all other village property not otherwise assigned. (1966 Code §
1.603)
      5.   Parkways: All the village parkways, and the improvements,
maintenance, lighting and care thereof. (1966 Code § 1.604)
   B.   Enforcement Of Ordinances: The commissioner of public property is
hereby charged with the enforcement of all ordinances relating to parks,
playgrounds and buildings therein or thereon, the improvement and care of
parkways, and the planting and trimming of trees therein. (1966 Code § 1.605)
   C.   Supplies: The commissioner of public property shall have charge of the
purchase of tools, equipment and supplies of the department. (1966 Code §
1.606)
1-7E-3: ASSISTANCE:
The commissioner of public property shall have such assistance from the
engineering department as may be necessary in surveying and laying out
improvements, and otherwise improving the parks, playgrounds and parkways, and
may, on application, receive assistance from other officers of the village.
(1966 Code § 1.607)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Application Of Provisions
1-8-2: Appointments
1-8-3: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
1-8-4: Oath And Bond
1-8-5: Salaries
1-8-6: Assignment Of Duties
1-8-7: Powers And Duties
1-8-8: Records Available For Inspection
1-8-9: Inspections
1-8-10: Impersonation, Interfering With Officers
1-8-11: Ethics Act
1-8-12: Travel, Meal, And Lodging Expenses
1-8-13: Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
1-8-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers and employees
of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or
position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee. (1966 Code
§ 5.101)
1-8-2: APPOINTMENTS:
All officers, other than elective officers, shall be appointed by the
commissioner of the department to which they are assigned as is provided by
statute; provided also, that all employees shall, in the absence of any
provisions to the contrary, be appointed or selected by the commissioner of the
department to which they are assigned. (1966 Code § 5.102)
1-8-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office until the May 1
following his appointment or until his successor is appointed and qualified,
unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance. In case of a vacancy in any such
office, it shall be filled in the same manner in which appointments or
selections are made, in the absence of provision to the contrary. (1966 Code §
5.103)
1-8-4: OATH AND BOND:
   A.   Oath Of Office: Every officer of the village shall, before entering
upon his duties, take the oath prescribed by statute. (1966 Code § 5.105)
   B.   Bond: Every officer or employee shall, if required by the council, upon
entering upon the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount and with
such sureties as may be determined by the council, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of his office or position. (1966 Code §
5.109)
1-8-5: SALARIES:
All officers and employees of the village shall receive such salary as may from
time to time be provided by ordinance or resolution. (1966 Code § 5.106)
1-8-6: ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES:
The mayor shall have the power to assign to any appointive officer any duty
which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific officer, and shall
determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or duties of
officers. (1966 Code § 5.107)
1-8-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Conservators Of The Peace: (Rep. by Ord. 6-06, 12-5-2006)
   B.   Turn Over Monies: Every officer of the village shall, at least once
each month, turn over all money received by him in his official capacity to the
treasurer, with a statement showing the source from which the same was
received. (1966 Code § 5.104)
   C.   Books And Records To Successor: Every officer and employee of the
village, upon the expiration of his term for any cause whatsoever, shall
deliver to his successor all books and records which may be the property of the
village, and if no successor has been appointed within one week after the
termination of office, such property shall be delivered to the village clerk or
village treasurer. (1966 Code § 5.111)
1-8-8: RECORDS AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection by
the mayor, or any member of the council at all reasonable times, whether or not
such records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance. (1966 Code §
5.108)
1-8-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority: Any officer or employee of the village who is authorized to
enforce ordinances may make such inspections as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of such ordinances.
   B.   Request Permission To Inspect: Whenever such officer or employee shall
have reason to believe there exists on or in any premises in the village any
nuisance dangerous to public health, any fire hazard, any structural defect
likely to result in injury to person or property, or any electrical wiring or
equipment in such condition as to present a fire hazard or danger to persons,
he shall ask permission of the occupant of such premises, or the owner or
custodian thereof if the premises are unoccupied, to inspect the same. (1966
Code § 5.114)
   C.   Failure To Permit Inspections: Each such occupant or owner shall permit
such inspection at any reasonable time. Any such owner or occupant who refuses
to permit such inspection shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1966 Code § 5.114; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8-10: IMPERSONATION, INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS:
   A.   Impersonating: It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate any
village officer or employee. (1966 Code § 5.112; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Interference With Officers: It shall be unlawful to interfere with or
hinder any officer or employee of the village while engaged in the duties of
his office or employment. (1966 Code § 5.113)
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1966 Code §§ 5.112, 5.113; amd. 2003
Code)
1-8-11: ETHICS ACT:
   A.   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2 of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section), are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 16-04, 5-4-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
1-8-12: TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions:
 
                 Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
ENTERTAINMENT:   circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or
                 private entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the
                 purpose of the program or event.
                 Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose which
PUBLIC BUSINESS: is required or useful for the benefit of the village to carry
                 out the responsibilities of village business.
                 Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by
                 employees and officers of the village or by wards or charges
TRAVEL:          of the village involving reimbursement to travelers or direct
                 payment to private agencies providing transportation or
                 related services.
 
   B.   The village shall only reimburse authorized travel, meal, and lodging
expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following maximum
allowable amounts:
      1.   Mileage; Tolls; Parking: Auto: Personal Vehicle: Reimbursed at the
IRS milage rate in effect at the time, plus tolls incurred via the most direct
route of travel and parking at the rate set by the provider.
      2.   Per Diem/Meals And Lodging: The reimbursement rate will be that of
the U.S. General Services Administration as outlined and updated annually at
www.gsa.gov for per diem within Illinois, per diem for outside of Illinois,
lodging expenses within Illinois, and lodging expenses outside of Illinois.
      3.   Airfare: Coach class fare at governmental or group rates when
available. If no such governmental or group rates are available, the maximum
reimbursable rate is coach class via the most direct air route then available.
      4.   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   C.   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
village employee or officer shall be authorized unless the "Travel, Meal, and
Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", attached to Ordinance 02-17 and
made a part hereof by reference, has been submitted and approved. All documents
and information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under
the Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   D.   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of: (1) any officer or employee
that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the regulations adopted
under division B of this section; or (2) any member of the village council may
only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the village council.
However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances, the
village council may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set forth
above.
   E.   The village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee, or
officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment. Activities
which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are excluded from
the prohibition or reimbursement due to being ancillary to the purpose of the
program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this
section. (Ord. 02-17, 2-7-2017)
1-8-13: ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
   A.   The village of Leland, LaSalle county, Illinois, does hereby elect to
participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund.
   B.   The standards for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for one thousand (1,000) hours per year. (Ord.
03-17, 4-4-2017)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Appointment And Supervision
1-8A-2: Bond
1-8A-3: Duties
1-8A-4: Deputy Clerk
1-8A-1: APPOINTMENT AND SUPERVISION:
The village clerk shall be appointed by the council as provided by statute, and
shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of accounts and finances.
(1966 Code § 2.101)
1-8A-2: BOND:
Before entering upon his duties of office, the village clerk shall execute a
bond in such amount as is provided by statute, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his duties. (1966 Code § 2.102)
1-8A-3: DUTIES:
The village clerk shall:
   A.   Village Seal: Be the custodian of the village seal, and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever this is required. (1966 Code § 2.107)
   B.   Signatures: Seal and attest all contracts of the village, and all
licenses, permits and such other documents as shall require this formality.
(1966 Code § 2.103)
   C.   Turn Over Monies: Turn over all money received by him on behalf of the
village to the village treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same, and with
such money, he shall give a statement as to the source thereof. (1966 Code §
2.104)
   D.   Accounts: Keep accounts showing all money received by him and the
source and disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be required by
statute or ordinance. (1966 Code § 2.105)
   E.   Records: Keep a register of all licenses and permits issued and the
payments therefor, a record showing all of the officers and regular employees
of the village, and such other records as may be required by the council which
are in addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the clerk
is required by statute to keep. (1966 Code § 2.106)
   F.   Documents: Be the custodian of all documents belonging to the village
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer. (1966 Code §
2.108)
   G.   Indices: Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and records
kept by him so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had. (1966 Code
§ 2.109)
   H.   Ex Officio Collector: Act as and perform all duties of collector unless
and until a separate collector is appointed. (1966 Code § 2.110)
   I.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, perform
such other duties and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance.
(1966 Code § 2.111)
1-8A-4: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Office Established; Appointment: The office of deputy clerk of the
village is hereby established, and the village clerk is hereby authorized to
appoint one deputy clerk.
   B.   Treasurer May Serve As: The village clerk shall be authorized to
appoint the village treasurer as the deputy clerk to perform any and all such
duties of deputy clerk as are not in conflict or legally incompatible with the
office of village treasurer.
   C.   Restrictions: The powers and duties of the deputy clerk shall be
exercised only in the absence of the clerk, and only when either written
direction has been given by the clerk to the deputy to exercise a power or the
village council has determined by resolution that the village clerk is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform that function. (Ord. 22-96,
1-2-1996)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Appointment And Supervision
1-8B-2: Bond
1-8B-3: Duties
1-8B-1: APPOINTMENT AND SUPERVISION:
The village treasurer shall be appointed by the council, as provided by
statute, and shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of accounts and
finances. (1966 Code § 2.201)
1-8B-2: BOND:
The treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his
duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due to neglect of duty or
wrongful act on his part, and shall be in an amount of dollars that is not less
than the greater of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or three (3) times the
latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor
fuel tax purposes. Such bond shall be filed with the clerk as required by
statute. (1966 Code § 2.202; amd. 2003 Code)
1-8B-3: DUTIES:
The treasurer shall:
   A.   Duties Generally: Perform such duties as may be prescribed for him by
statute or by ordinance. He shall receive all money paid to the village, either
directly from the person paying it or from the hands of such other officer as
may receive it, and he shall pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly
signed by the village clerk and the mayor. (1966 Code § 2.203)
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: Deposit the village funds in such depositories as may
be selected from time to time as is provided by law, and keep the village money
separate and distinct from his own and shall not intermingle his own money with
it or make private or personal use of the village funds. (1966 Code § 2.204)
   C.   Records: Keep records showing all money received by him, the source
from which it was received, and the purpose for which it was paid out, and keep
a record showing at all times the financial status of the village. (1966 Code §
2.205)
   D.   Accounts: Keep such books and accounts as may be required by the
council, and keep them in the manner required by the council. (1966 Code §
2.206)
   E.   Reports: Make monthly reports to the council showing the state of the
finances of the village and the amounts received and spent during the month,
which reports shall be filed; and make an annual report after the close of the
fiscal year, as required by statute, with the total amount of all receipts and
expenditures of the village and his transactions as treasurer during the
preceding year. (1966 Code § 2.207)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Appointment
1-8C-2: Legal Advisor
1-8C-3: Duties
1-8C-4: Additional Counsel
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The village council may retain an attorney to act as legal advisor and attorney
for the village. (1966 Code § 2.301)
1-8C-2: LEGAL ADVISOR:
The village attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting the village whenever requested to do so
by any village official. Upon request by the mayor or by the council, he shall
reduce any such opinion to writing. (1966 Code § 2.304)
1-8C-3: DUTIES:
The village attorney shall:
   A.   Suits And Actions: Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at
law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the village on
behalf of the village, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
village. (1966 Code § 2.302)
   B.   Judgments: See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees
rendered or entered in favor of the village, and of all similar interlocutory
orders. (1966 Code § 2.305)
   C.   Special Assessments And Condemnations: See to the completion of all
special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings. (1966 Code §
2.305)
   D.   Ordinances And Documents: Draft or supervise the phraseology of any
contract, lease, or other document or instrument, to which the village may be a
party; and upon request by the council, draft ordinances or resolutions
covering any subjects within the power of the council. (1966 Code § 2.306)
1-8C-4: ADDITIONAL COUNSEL:
The village council may engage additional counsel whenever in its opinion such
additional counsel is necessary. (1966 Code § 2.307)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Creation Of Office; Appointment
1-8D-2: Duties
1-8D-3: Compensation
1-8D-4: Removal
1-8D-1: CREATION OF OFFICE; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created and established the office of Public Works Director.
The Public Works Director shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Village
Council. (Ord. 23-05, 12-5-2023)
1-8D-2: DUTIES:
The Public Works Director shall be under the direction and supervision of the
Commissioner of the Department of Streets and Public Improvements, and shall
perform such duties as are specified or may be required by the Commissioner and
the Village Council. (Ord. 23-05, 12-5-2023)
1-8D-3: COMPENSATION:
The Public Works Director shall receive such compensation as the Village
Council shall, from time to time, establish. The Village Council may enter into
an employment agreement which specifies provisions in writing, including but
not limited to, establishing the level of compensation of the Public Works
Director, specifying benefits, and defining other conditions of employment.
(Ord. 23-05, 12-5-2023)
1-8D-4: REMOVAL:
The Public Works Director may be removed in accordance with law. (Ord. 23-05,
12-5-2023)
CHAPTER 9
OFFICIAL VILLAGE PLAN
SECTION:
1-9-1: Contents Of Plan
1-9-2: Compliance With Plan
1-9-3: Drafting And Adoption Procedures
1-9-1: CONTENTS OF PLAN:
The official plan of the village shall consist of the following, and any
reference to the official plan of the village shall be taken to mean and
include all of the following enactments:
   A.   A map of the village, charts and diagrams showing proposed additions to
and improvements to the village streets, parks, public buildings, sewage
disposal system, water system, and street lighting system.
   B.   The specifications for street construction and paving established by
the council.
   C.   The zoning ordinance.
   D.   The subdivision control ordinance. (1966 Code §§ 5.301, 5.302)
   E.   The comprehensive plan text. (2003 Code)
1-9-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN:
No plat of subdivision, plan for the construction or layout of streets, or work
involving laying sewer or water mains shall be approved unless the same
complies fully with the requirements of the village plan. (1966 Code § 5.303)
1-9-3: DRAFTING AND ADOPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Scope And Impact Of Plan: The official comprehensive plan or any
amendment thereof, or addition thereto, proposed by the plan commission shall
be effective in the village and contiguous area herein prescribed only after
its formal adoption by the corporate authorities. Such plan shall be advisory
and in and of itself shall not be construed to regulate or control the use of
private property in any way, except as to such part thereof as has been
implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the village council.
   B.   Official Map: The village council shall designate by ordinance an
official map, which map may consist of the whole area included within the
official comprehensive plan or one or more separate geographical or functional
parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area
within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits of the village.
Such map or maps shall be made a part of the ordinance, which ordinance shall
specifically state standard requirements of the village relating to size of
streets, alleys, public ways, parks, playgrounds, school sites, other public
grounds and ways for public service facilities; the kind and quantity of
materials which shall be used in the construction of streets and alleys; and
the kind and quality of materials for public service facilities as may be
consistent with the Illinois commerce commission or industry standards and
shall contain the standards required for drainage and for the collection and
treatment of sewage.
   C.   Initiation Of Plan And Maps; Referral To Plan Commission: The village
council may initiate plans and maps by requesting the plan commission to
prepare an official comprehensive plan and recommend the same, or the village
council may originate an official comprehensive plan, or a part thereof, or an
amendment thereto, and may refer the same or suggest the changes in an existing
comprehensive plan to the plan commission for its consideration and
recommendation thereon. No comprehensive plan or amendment thereto shall be
adopted that has not been submitted to the plan commission.
   D.   Nonrestrictive Adoption Procedures: The village council may adopt parts
of a comprehensive plan recommended by the plan commission without adopting the
entire comprehensive plan as recommended, or the village council may modify or
amend portions of a recommended comprehensive plan without rereference of the
same to the plan commission; and the village council may adopt such
comprehensive plan, as modified or amended. Such comprehensive plan, when
adopted by the village council, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or
part thereof, of the village.
   E.   Submission To Commission; Report Required; Council Action: Upon
submission by the village council of any suggested comprehensive plan, part
thereof, or amendment to an existing comprehensive plan, to the plan commission
for consideration and recommendation, the village council may require a report
thereon from the plan commission with its recommendation within ninety (90)
days from the date of such submission, and if the plan commission shall fail to
make such report within such ninety (90) days, then the village council may
proceed to consider such comprehensive plan, or part thereof, or amendment to
an existing comprehensive plan, for adoption, including arranging for and
holding of a public hearing thereon in the same manner as if the plan
commission had made its recommendation.
   F.   Public Hearing; Notice Requirements: An official comprehensive plan or
any amendment thereof shall not be adopted by the village council until notice
and opportunity for public hearing have first been afforded in the manner
herein provided. Upon submission of a comprehensive plan by the plan
commission, or a proposed amendment to an existing comprehensive plan, the
corporate authorities shall schedule a public hearing thereon, either before
the plan commission or the village council. Not less than fifteen (15) days'
notice of the proposed hearing, and the time and place thereof, shall be given
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in LaSalle County. The
hearing may be recessed to another date if not concluded, if notice of the time
and place thereof is publicly announced at the hearing or is given by newspaper
publication not less than five (5) days prior to the recessed hearing.
   G.   Council Decision: Within ninety (90) days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the village council, after consideration of the recommendation of the
plan commission and such information as shall have been derived from the
hearing, shall either adopt the comprehensive plan or amendment in whole or in
part, or reject the entire comprehensive plan or amendment. If adopted, the
corporate authorities shall enact the ordinance including a map or maps as
hereinbefore provided.
   H.   Effect Of Plan: The comprehensive plan or amendment shall become
effective upon the expiration of ten (10) days after the day of filing notice
of the adoption of such comprehensive plan or amendment with the recorder of
deeds of LaSalle County. (Ord. 6-91, 12-3-1991)
CHAPTER 10
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Officer
1-10-2: Duties
1-10-3: Training
1-10-4: Retrieval
1-10-5: Copies
1-10-6: Appeal
1-10-1: OFFICER:
The village clerk is hereby designated as the FOIA officer to whom all initial
requests for access to the records of the village are to be referred. Such
requests are to be made to FOIA officer. In the event that the village clerk is
not available, the deputy village clerk is designated as the deputy FOIA
officer to whom such initial requests are to be made. Because the village has
no full time or part time office, request can be made by mail at P.O. Box 647,
Leland, IL 60531, or by fax at (815) 495-4591, addressed to Village Of Leland,
Attn: FOIA Officer/Deputy FOIA Officer. Except in instances when records are
furnished immediately, the FOIA officer, or her designees, shall receive
requests submitted to the village under the freedom of information act, ensure
that the village responds to requests in a timely fashion, and issue responses
under the act. The FOIA officer shall develop a list of documents or categories
or records that the village shall immediately disclose upon request. (Ord. 3-
10, 3-2-2010)
1-10-2: DUTIES:
Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA officer shall:
   A.   Note the date the village receives the written request;
   B.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and make a
notation of that date on the written request;
   C.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied; and
   D.   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of the
response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy of
other communications. (Ord. 3-10, 3-2-2010)
1-10-3: TRAINING:
The FOIA officer and deputy FOIA officer shall, within six (6) months after
January 1, 2010, successfully complete an electronic training curriculum to be
developed by the public access counselor of the state of Illinois and
thereafter successfully complete an annual training program. Whenever a new
freedom of information officer is designated by the village, that person shall
successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within thirty (30)
days after assuming the position. (Ord. 3-10, 3-2-2010)
1-10-4: RETRIEVAL:
Any records which are the subject of a request under the freedom of information
act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the FOIA officer,
or by an employee of the village acting under the direction of the FOIA
officer. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting them or
by any person who is not employed by the village. (Ord. 3-10, 3-2-2010)
1-10-5: COPIES:
If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether certified
or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA officer pursuant
to section 6(b) of the freedom of information act. The village clerk shall
maintain a written schedule of current fees and post such for public viewing.
The fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and
the cost of certifying copies, if certification is requested. (Ord. 3-10, 3-2-
2010)
1-10-6: APPEAL:
In the event that a request to inspect village records is denied by the FOIA
officer, the denial may be appealed to the public access counselor of the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 3-10, 3-2-2010)
CHAPTER 11
POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-11-2: Definition
1-11-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-11-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-11-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-11-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-11-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations, it is a policy of the village of Leland, LaSalle county,
Illinois, to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal agency or office on the basis
of sex or gender. All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal
employees and municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually
harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack
thereof. (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 15-18, 12-4-2018)
1-11-2: DEFINITION:
   A.   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
      1.   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         a.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         b.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         c.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      2.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         a.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         b.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         c.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         d.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         e.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
   B.   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person." (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 15-18, 12-
4-2018)
1-11-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   B.   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel:
         a.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
         b.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within three hundred (300) days
of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with
the EEOC must also be filed within three hundred (300) days.
   C.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   D.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 01-
18, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 15-18, 12-4-2018)
1-11-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy;
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   B.   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee's involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   C.   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   D.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/15-10, provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state agency, or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   E.   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act, 740 ILCS 174/15(a), an employer may
not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   F.   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5/6-101, it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which he/she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   G.   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed
over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge, either due within three hundred (300) days of the alleged
retaliation. (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 15-18, 12-4-2018)
1-11-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per offense, applicable
discipline or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency. (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018; amd. Ord. 15-18, 12-4-2018)
1-11-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
   A.   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   B.   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging
a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the state police, a state's
attorney, the attorney general, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 01-18, 1-2-2018; amd.
Ord. 15-18, 12-4-2018)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appropriation Ordinance
2-1-2: Tax Levy Ordinance
2-1-3: Debt
2-1-4: Contracts
2-1-5: Bills
2-1-6: Annual Audit
2-1-7: Surety Bonds
2-1-1: APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE:
During the first quarter of each fiscal year, as required by statute, the
council shall enact an appropriation ordinance in which shall be itemized all
anticipated expenditures to be met during the coming year, other than those
payable from bond issues. This ordinance shall be published as required by law
within ten (10) days after its enactment. (1966 Code § 5.201)
2-1-2: TAX LEVY ORDINANCE:
A tax levy ordinance shall be enacted, as required by law, levying such taxes
as may be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming year, together
with such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond issues, or for
purposes payable from special taxes properly authorized. A certified copy of
the tax levy ordinance shall be filed with the county clerk not later than the
last Tuesday in December. Such ordinance shall show the total appropriated for
each item, and the amount of tax levied therefor. (1966 Code § 5.202; amd. 2003
Code)
2-1-3: DEBT:
No indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such indebtedness as may be
payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a
designated specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which
such indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute. Provided, that during
the first quarter of any fiscal year, before the enactment of the current
appropriation ordinance, the village may operate under the appropriation
ordinance of the preceding year. (1966 Code § 5.203)
2-1-4: CONTRACTS:
   A.   The council shall make or authorize the making of all contracts to
which the village may be a party, and no contract may be entered into without
the authority of the council. (1966 Code §§ 1.115, 5.204)
   B.   No contract shall be entered into on behalf of or be binding on the
village unless it is entered into by ordinance or resolution, or is reduced to
writing and approved by the council, or expressly authorized by ordinance or
resolution, and no such ordinance or resolution shall be passed until it has
remained on file at least one week as required by statute. (1966 Code § 1.115)
   C.   The mayor, or any other person designated by the council, may sign on
behalf of the village any contract authorized by the council. (1966 Code §
5.204)
   D.   Any work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for in
whole or in part by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense
thereof will exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), shall be constructed
either: 1) by a contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after advertising
for bids, in the manner prescribed by ordinance; except, that any such contract
may be entered into by the proper village officers without advertising for
bids, if authorized by a vote of two- thirds (2/3) of all the village council
members then holding office; or 2) in the following manner, if authorized by a
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the village council members then holding
office: the proper officers to be designated by ordinance shall superintend and
cause to be carried out the construction of the work or other public
improvement and shall employ, exclusively for the performance of all manual
labor thereon, laborers and artisans whom the village shall pay by the day or
hour; and all material of the value of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and
upward used in the construction of the work or other public improvement shall
be purchased by contract let to the lowest responsible bidder in the manner to
be prescribed by ordinance. However, nothing contained in this subsection shall
apply to any contract with the federal government or any agency thereof. (2003
Code)
2-1-5: BILLS:
   A.   Prior Approval Required: All bills payable by the village, other than
for the payment of salaries established by the council, shall be submitted to
the council for approval before payment. (1966 Code § 5.205)
   B.   Payment By Treasurer: The treasurer shall pay out money in payment of
all bills, or for salaries, or for any other purpose other than the retirement
of principal or interest on bonds or tax anticipation warrants only upon
warrant signed by the mayor and the clerk as provided by statute. Such warrants
shall designate the items to be paid out and the funds from which they are to
be paid. (1966 Code § 5.206)
   C.   In addition to compliance with subsections A and B, any checks or other
negotiable instruments issued shall be signed by the village treasurer and
countersigned by the mayor or in the mayor's absence by the commissioner of
accounts and finances. (amd. Ord. 06-17, 7-11-2017)
2-1-6: ANNUAL AUDIT:
As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and no later than six
(6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the village
made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
Illinois, to be designated by the council. Two (2) copies of such audit report
shall be filed with the village clerk, and a copy shall be filed with the
comptroller of the state, and in such other places as may be required by law.
(1966 Code § 5.207; amd. 2003 Code)
2-1-7: SURETY BONDS:
   A.   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of a license or permit, or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in this state as a surety company, in the absence of specific
provision to the contrary by ordinance.
   B.   Whenever in its opinion additional sureties or an additional surety may
be needed on any bond to indemnify the village against loss or liability
because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties, or for any other
reason, the council may order a new surety or sureties to be secured for such
bond. If such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten (10) days from
the time such order is transmitted to the principal of the bond, or his
assignee, the council shall declare the bond to be void, and thereupon, such
principal or assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the privilege or
position as condition on which the bond was required. (1966 Code § 5.605)
CHAPTER 2
INVESTMENT POLICY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Village Policy
2-2-2: Scope
2-2-3: Prudent Investing
2-2-4: Objectives
2-2-5: Management And Administration Of Investments
2-2-6: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
2-2-7: Authorized Financial Dealers And Investments
2-2-8: Security Precautions
2-2-9: Portfolio
2-2-10: Reports Required
2-2-11: Adoption Of Policy; Review And Changes
2-2-1: VILLAGE POLICY:
It is the policy of the village to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while meeting
the daily cash flow demands of the village and conforming to all state and
local statutes governing the investment of public funds. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-
1999)
2-2-2: SCOPE:
This policy includes all funds governed by the village council. (Ord. 18-99,
12-7-1999)
2-2-3: PRUDENT INVESTING:
Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances then
prevailing which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in
the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the probable
income to be derived. The standard of prudence to be used by investment
officials shall be the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the
context of managing an overall portfolio. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-4: OBJECTIVES:
   A.   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      1.   Legality - conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements.
      2.   Safety - preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal.
      3.   Liquidity - maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements.
      4.   Yield - attainment of market rates of return.
   B.   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the village needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-5: MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF INVESTMENTS:
Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the village treasurer who, under the delegation of the
village council, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the
investment program. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-6: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-7: AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INVESTMENTS:
   A.   Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions: The village treasurer
will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
   B.   Authorized And Suitable Investments: Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in Illinois statutes regarding the investment of
public funds, and investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of
the fund type being invested. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-8: SECURITY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Collateralization: Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of
deposit, etc.) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of
collateral, witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent, third
party institution in the name of the village.
   B.   Safekeeping And Custody: All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the village, shall be
conducted on a delivery versus payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third party custodian designated by the village treasurer and
evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
   C.   Internal Control: The village treasurer is responsible for establishing
and maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the
assets of the entity are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal
control structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The internal controls shall address the following points:
      1.   Control of collusion.
      2.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting.
      3.   Custodial safekeeping.
      4.   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-9: PORTFOLIO:
   A.   Diversification: The village shall diversify its investments to the
best of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs
of those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
   B.   Maximum Maturities: To the extent possible, the village shall attempt
to match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless
matched to a specific cash flow, the village will not directly invest in
securities maturing more than five (5) years from the date of purchase. Reserve
funds may be invested in securities exceeding five (5) years if the maturity of
such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the
expected use of the funds.
   C.   Performance Standards: The investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified in this policy. The portfolio should
obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment of
stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to benchmarks
with similar maturity, liquidity and credit quality as the portfolio. (Ord. 18-
99, 12-7-1999)
2-2-10: REPORTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Quarterly Reports: The village treasurer shall prepare an investment
report at least quarterly. The report should be provided to the village council
and available upon request. The report should be in a format suitable for
review by the general public.
   B.   Annual Report: An annual report should also be provided to the village
council.
   C.   Market Value Of Portfolio: A statement of the market value of the
portfolio shall be issued to the village council quarterly. (Ord. 18-99, 12-7-
1999)
2-2-11: ADOPTION OF POLICY; REVIEW AND CHANGES:
The policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the village treasurer, and
any modifications made thereto must be approved by the village council. (Ord.
18-99, 12-7-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Title
2-3-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
2-3-3: Definitions
2-3-4: Notice Requirements
2-3-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
2-3-6: Disposition Of Revenues
2-3-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
2-3-8: Audit Procedure
2-3-9: Appeals
2-3-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
2-3-11: Installment Contracts
2-3-12: Statute Of Limitations
2-3-13: Voluntary Disclosure
2-3-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
2-3-15: Review Of Liens
2-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 3-
2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 ".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village commissioner of accounts and finances is
charged with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and
administered taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are
authorized by the local tax administrator to act in the local tax
administrator's stead. The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
implement the terms of this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The
exercise of such authority by the local tax administrator shall not be
inconsistent with this chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village which is not an agency or
department of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the property tax code 2  or fees collected by the village other
than infrastructure maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Leland, Illinois. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
2 1. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
2-3-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing, mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-6: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitation: The statute of limitation on a claim for credit
or refund shall be two (2) years after the end of the calendar year in which
payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a village credit or
refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a
person who has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any
local administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
chapter. Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during business hours, and if the date
and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a claim denial, or a notice of
claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the following
information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest as of the due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may
reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and petition for
hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest and petition
for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days after the
expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal. No continuances
shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds
for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      2.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      3.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty percent (20%) of the total
tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required
to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to
file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-
3-2001; amd. 2003 Code)
2-3-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than two (2)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any two (2) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be four (4) years after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   D.   The statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application, but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed, or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 3-2001, 7-3-2001)
2-3-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 3-
2001, 7-3-2001)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Definitions
2-4-2: Tax Imposed
2-4-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-4-4: Tax Is Additional
2-4-5: Determination And Implementation Of Tax
2-4-6: Return Filed; Payment Of Tax
2-4-7: Credit Issued; Limitation
2-4-8: Limitation On Collection Of Tax
2-4-9: Violation; Penalty
2-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity for use or consumption and not for
resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal corporation or
political subdivision of the state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
2-4-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   A.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing,
or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the
village and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
   B.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing,
or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
2-4-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas or electricity be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act 1 ", authorized
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   The municipal utility tax on electricity billing in the village,
imposed by this chapter, shall not apply with respect to gross receipts
pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing, or sale of
electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject to the
tax imposed by ordinance 4-99 entitled "an ordinance imposing a municipal tax
on the privilege of using or consuming electricity 2 ". (Ord. 5-99, 6-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 2. See chapter 5 of this title.
2-4-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use
of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
2-4-5: DETERMINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF TAX:
This chapter shall take effect after publication, and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the "gross receipts", as herein defined, actually paid
to the taxpayer for services billed on or after October 1, 1998. Publication in
pamphlet form is hereby authorized. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
2-4-6: RETURN FILED; PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   On or before November 30, 1998, each taxpayer shall make a return to
the village clerk for the month of October 1998, stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
      3.   His gross receipts during that month. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998; amd.
2003 Code)
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the village clerk for each corresponding one month
period.
   C.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village clerk the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
2-4-7: CREDIT ISSUED; LIMITATION:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 6-98, 8-4-
1998)
2-4-8: LIMITATION ON COLLECTION OF TAX:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 6-98, 8-4-1998)
2-4-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 9-98, 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICITY USE TAX
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: Tax Imposed
2-5-3: Exemptions From Tax
2-5-4: Tax Is Additional
2-5-5: Determination And Implementation Of Tax
2-5-6: Return Filed; Collection And Payment Of Tax
2-5-7: Credit Issued; Limitation
2-5-8: Limitations On Collection Of Overdue Taxes
2-5-9: Violation; Penalty
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the tax authorized by this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state of Illinois or any of its political
subdivisions, any state of Illinois university created by statute, or a
receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within the state of Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary or other
affiliate, an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission
facility, sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or
other representative operating within the state of Illinois under the authority
of the person or its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether
such place of business or agent or other representative is located in the state
of Illinois permanently or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or
other affiliate is licensed or qualified to do business in the state of
Illinois.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village of Leland, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail. (Ord. 4-99, 6-
1-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
2-5-2: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Tax Rates Established: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of
using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or
consumed within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates,
calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt-Hours Used     Cents Per
Or Consumed In A Month  Kilowatt-Hour
Kilowatt-Hours Used              Cents Per
Or Consumed In A Month           Kilowatt-Hour
   First 2,000               0.577
   Next 48,000               0.378
   Next 50,000               0.340
   Next 400,000              0.331
   Next 500,000              0.321
   Next 2,000,000            0.302
   Next 2,000,000            0.298
   Next 5,000,000            0.293
   Next 10,000,000           0.288
   All in excess of 20,000,0 0.284
 
   B.   Effect Of Tax Rates:
      1.   The tax rates set forth in subsection A of this section will be used
at least through December 31, 2008, are proportional to the rates enumerated in
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 (as modified by public act 90-561), and
do not exceed the revenue that could have been collected during 1997 using the
rates enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 (as modified by
public act 90-561).
      2.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection A of this section shall be effective: a) on August 1, 1999,
for residential customers; and b) on the earlier of: 1) the first bill issued
on or after January 1, 2001; or 2) the date of the first bill issued pursuant
to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104, for nonresidential customers.
      3.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not be
effective until August 1, 1999. (Ord. 4-99, 6-1-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
2-5-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such privilege may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, transmitting or selling
electricity or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act 1 " authorized by 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1. No tax is imposed by this chapter upon any
privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon
all persons exercising the same privilege within the village. (Ord. 4-99, 6-1-
1999, eff. 8-1-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-5-4: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use
of its streets, alleys, or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayers' business and shall be in addition to other
taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its business. (Ord. 4-99, 6-1-1999, eff. 8-1-
1999)
2-5-5: DETERMINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF TAX:
This chapter shall take effect on August 1, 1999, and the tax provided for
herein shall be based on the rates set forth herein for the amounts actually
paid to the person maintaining a place of business in Illinois who delivers
electricity to the purchaser for services billed on or after August 1, 1999.
Publication in pamphlet form is hereby authorized. (Ord. 4-99, 6-1-1999, eff.
8-1-1999)
2-5-6: RETURN FILED; COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   On or before the last day of each month, each person maintaining a
place of business who delivers electricity to the purchaser shall make a return
to the village clerk for the prior month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed and an explanation of the calculations
used to determine the amount collected from the purchasers.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the municipal
authorities may require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the village clerk for the corresponding prior one
month period.
   C.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and,
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
chapter and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the village by such person delivering the
electricity; provided, that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed
credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the charges for which
are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that if such charges
are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit
such tax. For purposes of this subsection, any partial payment not specifically
identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity, in the manner prescribed by the village. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person delivering
electricity for the expenses incurred in keeping records, billing customers,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the
village upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the
tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the village in the manner prescribed by the village. Persons
delivering electricity who file returns pursuant to this subsection shall, at
the time of filing such return, pay the village the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 4-99, 6-1-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
2-5-7: CREDIT ISSUED; LIMITATION:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as a result of a mistake of fact or an
error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 4-99, 6-1-
1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
2-5-8: LIMITATIONS ON COLLECTION OF OVERDUE TAXES:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 4-99, 6-1-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
2-5-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person maintaining a place of business in Illinois who delivers electricity
to the purchaser who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return,
or who wilfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 4-99, 6-1-1999, eff. 8-1-1999)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
2-6-1: Definitions
2-6-2: Tax Imposed
2-6-3: Collection And Payment Of Tax
2-6-4: Books And Records Kept
2-6-5: Exemption For Resellers
2-6-6: Penalties; Time Limit On Recovery Of Tax
2-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the taxes authorized by this chapter, the following words
and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services rendered in
connection therewith, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services and property of every kind or nature and
shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of such
telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or service costs or
any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the amount thereof
shall be included only as and when paid. However, gross charge shall not
include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter; 2) additional charges added to
a purchaser's bill pursuant to section 9-222 of the public utilities act 1 ; 3)
the tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act 2 ; or 4) the tax
imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code 3 .
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9222.1 of the
public utilities act 4  to the extent of such exemption and during the period
of time specified by the department of commerce and community affairs.
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made); or
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside the state of Illinois.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within the state of Illinois.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court, the federal and state governments, including state universities created
by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision of the
state of Illinois.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
"sales at retail" as defined in this chapter. The village may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within the state,
who, to the satisfaction of the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure
collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without
charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty
of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in the village in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within the village.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE STATE (Or Any Like Term): Means
and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state of Illinois,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within the state of Illinois under the authority
of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in the state of Illinois.
SALES AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications, and all services rendered in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries, when the tax has already been paid to a retailer and the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for the retailer's use or
consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. If this is not a defined location, as in
the case of mobile phones, paging systems, maritime systems, air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunication equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually through his agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating in the village or
receiving in the village telecommunications and who incurs a tax liability
under this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the usual and popular meaning, includes, but
is not limited to, messages or information transmitted through use of local,
toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph services,
teletypewriter services, computer exchange services, cellular mobile
telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio services, paging services,
or any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. The definition of "telecommunications"
shall not include value added services in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the
information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall
not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by him to the
ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end
communications. Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale.
VILLAGE: The village of Leland, Illinois, a municipal corporation. (Ord. 7-98,
8-4-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-222.
2 2. 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.
3 3. 26 USCA § 4251.
4 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1.
2-6-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village intrastate telecommunications by a person at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer by such person. However, such tax is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by
municipalities in the state.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village interstate telecommunications by a person at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer by such person. To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to this subsection to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in the state. However, such tax is not imposed on the act or privilege to
the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes
of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by municipalities in the
state. (Ord. 7-98, 8-4-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
2-6-3: COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Collection By Retailers: The tax authorized by this chapter shall be
collected from the taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in
the state and making or effectuating the sale at retail and shall be remitted
by such retailer to the village. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to
this chapter and any such tax collected by such retailer shall constitute a
debt owed by the retailer to the village. Retailers shall collect the tax from
the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use. The tax
authorized by this chapter shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the
retailer who provides such taxable services until paid and, if unpaid, is
recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such taxable
services. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the village. Whenever
possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when collected, be stated
as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross charge for
telecommunications. (Ord. 7-98, 8-4-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
   B.   Tax Returns Filed:
      1.   On or before November 30, 1998, each retailer shall make a return to
the village clerk for the prior month of October stating:
         a.   Its name.
         b.   Its principal place of business.
         c.   The gross charges during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed.
         d.   Amount of tax.
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the village may
require.
      2.   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each retailer
shall make a like return to the village clerk for the corresponding prior month
period.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The retailer making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the village clerk, the amount
of tax herein imposed; provided, that in connection with any return, the
retailer may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total
billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return
is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of
later payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable
gross charges.
   D.   Commission Deducted: The retailer may deduct from the payment made
pursuant to C of this section, a commission of 1.75 percent which is allowed to
reimburse the retailer for the expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
the customer, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying
data to the village upon request. No commission may be claimed by a retailer
for tax not timely remitted to the village.
   E.   Failure To Pay; Civil Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return
or who files a late return or who fails to pay the tax herein imposed shall
pay, in addition to the tax imposed, a civil penalty of two percent (2%) of the
tax due per month or any fraction of a month thereof.
   F.   Credit For Erroneous Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax
has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether
as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall
be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this chapter from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
credited. (Ord. 7-98, 8-4-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
2-6-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS KEPT:
Every retailer under this chapter shall keep books, records and other documents
which are adequate to reflect that the tax imposed by this chapter is being
collected in the proper amount. All books and records and other papers and
documents required by this chapter to be kept shall, at all times during
business hours of the day, be subject to inspection by the village or its duly
authorized agents and employees. Books and records reflecting gross charges
during any period with respect to which the tax is imposed shall be preserved
until the expiration of three (3) years following the period the tax was
incurred, unless the village, in writing, authorizes their destruction or
disposal at an earlier date. (Ord. 7-98, 8-4-1998, eff. 10-1-1998)
2-6-5: EXEMPTION FOR RESELLERS:
   A.   Application For Resale Number: If a person who originates or receives
telecommunications in the village claims to be a reseller of such
telecommunications, such person shall apply to the village for a resale number.
Such applicant shall state facts which will show the village why such applicant
is not liable for tax under this chapter on any of such purchases and shall
furnish such additional information as the village may reasonably require.
   B.   Issuance Of Resale Number: Upon approval of the application, the
village shall assign a resale number to the applicant and shall certify such
number to the applicant. The village may cancel any number which is obtained
through misrepresentation or which is used to send or receive such
telecommunication tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or
which no longer applies because of the persons having discontinued the making
of resales.
   C.   Use Of Resale Number: Except as provided hereinabove in this section,
the act or privilege of sending or receiving telecommunications shall not be
made tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has
an active resale number from the village and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 7-98, 8-4-1998,
eff. 10-1-1998)
2-6-6: PENALTIES; TIME LIMIT ON RECOVERY OF TAX:
Any retailer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 7-98, 8-4-1998, eff. 10-1-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Commission Created; Appointment; Residency Requirements
3-1-2: Membership And Terms
3-1-3: Compensation
3-1-4: Powers
3-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED; APPOINTMENT; RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
There is hereby created the plan commission for the village. The members of the
plan commission shall be appointed by the mayor subject to confirmation by the
village council. Members of the plan commission shall reside within the village
or within territory contiguous to the village and not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included within any other
municipality. (Ord. 6-91, 12-3-1991)
3-1-2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
The plan commission shall consist of no less than three (3) nor more than seven
(7) members. The members shall serve for a term of four (4) years; with the
exception, that two (2) of the initial members shall serve a term of two (2)
years, with their successors to be appointed for four (4) year terms. The
members of the plan commission shall elect a chairman. (Ord. 6-91, 12-3-1991;
amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of each member shall be in the amount of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per meeting. (Ord. 6-91, 12-3-1991)
3-1-4: POWERS:
The plan commission shall have the following powers:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the village council a comprehensive plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village. Such
plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts,
each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part
thereof of the village 1 . The plan may include reasonable requirements with
reference to streets, alleys, public grounds and other improvements hereinafter
specified. The plan, as recommended by the plan commission and as thereafter
adopted in the village, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land
situated in the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more than one and
one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any other
municipality. Such plan may be implemented by ordinances that: (Ord. 6-91, 12-
3-1991)
      1.   Establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements. (Ord. 6-91, 12-3-1991; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Establish reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, and sewage collection and
treatment; and
      3.   Designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   B.   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the village council, from time to time,
plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive
plan.
   D.   To give aid to the municipal officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   E.   To prepare and recommend to the village council schemes for regulating
or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to solar energy
necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems.
   F.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted herein as
may be conferred by the village council. (Ord. 6-91, 12-3-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
3-2-1: Board Created; Composition
3-2-2: Organization
3-2-3: Procedures; Powers And Duties
3-2-1: BOARD CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a board of local improvements to be composed of the
mayor and the four (4) commissioners of the village. (Ord. 1-92, 1-7-1992)
3-2-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   President Of Board: The mayor shall be president of the board of local
improvements. (1966 Code § 1.127)
   B.   Meetings: The board of local improvements shall meet upon the call of
the mayor or of any two (2) members. Twenty four (24) hours' notice of such
call shall be given each member; provided, that a meeting may be held when all
members are present, without notice. (1966 Code § 1.119; amd. Ord. 1-92, 1-7-
1992)
3-2-3: PROCEDURES; POWERS AND DUTIES:
In making local improvements by special assessment, the board of local
improvements shall follow the procedures set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes article 9, division 2, with amendments thereto adopted prior to the
effective date hereof. Said division 2 of article 9 of chapter 65 is hereby
adopted by the village by reference, not less than three (3) copies of such act
having been on file in the office of the village clerk for a period of thirty
(30) days prior to the effective date hereof. The board of local improvements
shall have all the powers and duties set forth in said statute incorporated
herein by reference. (Ord. 1-92, 1-7-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Purpose
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Council Authority To Limit Classes And Numbers
4-1-4: License Required; Classification And Fees
4-1-5: Number Of Licenses
4-1-6: Application For License
4-1-7: Denial Of License To Certain Persons Authorized
4-1-8: Bond And Insurance Required
4-1-9: Investigations; Approval Or Denial Of License
4-1-10: Termination Of License; Prorating Fee
4-1-11: Nontransferability Of License
4-1-12: Renewal Of License
4-1-13: License To Be Posted; Duplicate Licenses
4-1-14: Days And Hours Of Sales
4-1-15: Location And Premises Requirements
4-1-16: Underage Persons
4-1-17: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-1-18: Containers To Be Labeled And Stamped
4-1-19: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fines
4-1-20: Violations; Consequences
4-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be construed to the end that the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the village shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted. (Ord. 87-1, 4-
7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given in this section:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent (1/
2%), or less, of alcohol by volume. No fee provided for in this chapter shall
apply to wine intended for use and used by any church or religious organization
for sacramental purposes; provided, that such wine shall be purchased from a
licensed manufacturer or importing distributor under this chapter.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops, in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its members,
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and guests; provided, that such club files with the mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of names
and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten (10) days of the
election of any additional member of his or her name and address; and provided,
that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent, or employee of the club is
paid, or directly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation, any
profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or its
members or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as
may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting of the members or by its board of
directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the license.
LICENSEE: Any person receiving a license under this chapter.
OWNER OR PROPRIETOR: Shall include all persons who are owners or are in control
of any place where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on,
whether they be individuals, partnerships, corporations, joint stock companies,
fiduciaries or officers, directors or otherwise.
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE: Any establishment catering to the general public whose
principal business is the sale of alcoholic liquors, not for consumption on the
premises.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, club, association or corporation.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee. The term "sale" includes any transfer of alcoholic liquor
from a foreign importer's license to an importing distributor's license even if
both licenses are held by the same person.
SPECIAL EVENT: An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or nonprofit organization.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT LICENSE: A license for use by a retailer to allow for the
transfer of alcoholic beverages from an existing licensed retail premises to a
designated site for a specific event.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
TOTAL POPULATION: The population as determined by the most recent federal,
state or village census.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits" as defined herein.
(Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-3: COUNCIL AUTHORITY TO LIMIT CLASSES AND NUMBERS:
The village council shall have the right and power to limit the number of
licenses of each class to be issued within the corporate limits of the village,
and may also limit the number of each class in any locality or in any section
or portion of the village in accordance with the public interest. (Ord. 87-1,
4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; CLASSIFICATION AND FEES:
No person shall sell either at retail or wholesale, or have in his possession
and offer for sale, alcoholic liquor within the corporate limits of the village
without having first obtained a license so to do as provided by this chapter,
and paid to the village clerk the license fee for such license, which license
shall be designated and classified as follows: (Ord. 93-4, 3-2-1993; amd. 2003
Code)
   A.   Class A, Retail License: The annual license fee for a class A license
for the sale of alcoholic liquors, to be consumed either on or off the
premises, shall be the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00), payable in
advance.
   B.   Class B, Package Liquor Store License: The annual license fee for a
class B license for the sale of alcoholic liquors on the premises but not for
consumption on the premises shall be the sum of three hundred dollars
($300.00), payable in advance.
   C.   Class C, Restaurant License: The annual license fee for a class C
license for the sale of alcoholic liquors, to be consumed on the premises, in a
restaurant, shall be the sum of four hundred dollars ($400.00), payable in
advance. (Ord. 93-4, 3-2-1993)
   D.   Class D, Day License: The fee for a class D license for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold, and not
for resale in any form, to be issued for temporary stands, booths and counters
such as used at picnics, celebrations, play days, and the like, shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per day, payable in advance. A class D license shall be
available solely to not for profit corporations, religious corporations, or
charitable organizations, and each class D license shall be issued for a period
of one day. (Ord. 93-4, 3-2-1993; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-5: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class A License: The total number of class A licenses issued and in
force at any one time in any year shall not exceed four (4) until the total
population of the village reaches the number one thousand five hundred (1,500),
and thereafter, not more than one class A license shall be issued and in force
at any one time in any year for each seven hundred fifty (750) or major
fraction of seven hundred fifty (750) of such population.
   B.    Class B License: The total number of class B licenses issued and in
force at any one time in any year shall not exceed four (4) until the total
population of the village reaches the number one thousand five hundred (1,500),
and thereafter, not more than one class B license shall be issued and in force
at any one time in any year for each seven hundred fifty (750) or major
fraction of seven hundred fifty (750) of such population.
   C.   Class C License: The total number of class C licenses issued and in
force at any one time in any year shall not exceed four (4) until the total
population of the village reaches the number of one thousand five hundred
(1,500), and thereafter, not more than one class C license shall be issued and
in force at any one time in any year for each seven hundred fifty (750) or
major fraction of seven hundred fifty (750) of such population.
   D.   Class D License: The total number of class D licenses issued and in
force during any one calendar year period shall not exceed twelve (12) until
the total population of the village reaches the number one thousand five
hundred (1,500), and thereafter, not more than six (6) class D licenses shall
be issued and in force during any one calendar year period for each seven
hundred fifty (750) or major fraction of seven hundred fifty (750) of such
population. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made to the mayor in writing upon blanks
prepared and furnished by the village, signed by the applicant, if an
individual; or by at least two (2) members of a partnership, if the applicant
is a partnership; or if the applicant is a corporation, then by the president
and secretary thereof; verified by oath or affidavit of the signers, and shall
contain the following information and statement:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of the incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the
names and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority interest
of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the
name and address of such person.
   B.   The citizenship of an applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   D.   The length of time that the applicant has been in the business of that
character; or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
application was made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar or other license on premises other than described in this application.
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter or any ordinance or statute. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987,
eff. 4-7-1987)
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked, and the reasons therefor, or whether
the applicant has made an application for a liquor license which has been
denied and, if so, the reasons therefor.
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois or of the United States or any ordinance of the village in
the conduct or his business.
   K.   That the proposed location is not within one hundred feet (100') of any
church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or veterans, their
wives or children, or any military or naval station. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff.
4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
   L.   The date of incorporation, if an Illinois corporation; or the date of
becoming qualified under the Illinois business corporation act 1  to transact
business in Illinois, if a foreign corporation.
   M.   That he has not received or borrowed money or anything else of value,
and that he will not receive or borrow money or anything else of value, except
as permitted by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
4-1-7: DENIAL OF LICENSE TO CERTAIN PERSONS AUTHORIZED:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the village.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-
1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the state liquor commission has determined that such person has
been rehabilitated. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   A person who has been convicted of a crime or misdemeanor opposed to
decency and morality.
   F.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   G.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for the license upon a first
application.
   H.   A copartnership, unless all the members of such copartnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license.
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision.
   J.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required for the
licensee.
   K.   A person who does not have ownership of the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
   L.   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state retail
liquor dealer's license. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
   M.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the village.
   N.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act 1  to
transact business in Illinois.
   O.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or has
forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   P.   Any law enforcing public official, including the mayor and
commissioners, and no such official shall be interested directly in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except in relation to
premises which are not located within the village.
   Q.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   R.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(11) or as
proscribed by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3 or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of said statutory provisions.
   S.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act 2  or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act 2
. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
4-1-8: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Bond:
      1.   Bond Amount: Every person desiring a license shall execute a penal
bond in form with security to the village, conditioned upon the faithful
observance of the provisions of the laws of the United States, the laws of the
state of Illinois and of this chapter. Such bond shall be in the sum of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and shall, on approval of the mayor, be filed in
the office of the village clerk.
      2.   Securities On Bonds:
         a.   No person holding a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
under this chapter shall be acceptable as a surety for another person holding
or requesting a license to engage in the sale of alcoholic liquors, nor shall
the holder of any license for the sale of alcoholic liquors be permitted to
sign any bond for bail for any other person requesting or offering bail under
any complaint for the violation of any provisions of this chapter or of the
laws of the United States or of the state of Illinois.
         b.   All sureties on such bonds must be property owners within the
corporate limits of the village or a duly organized and responsible surety
company authorized to do business in the state of Illinois and shall
satisfactorily show that they are financially responsible for the amount set
forth in said bond or bonds. The financial responsibility of such sureties
shall be investigated and either approved or disapproved by the mayor.
   B.   Insurance: No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant
shall file with the application a certificate by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state of Illinois, certifying that the
applicant has in force and effect the insurance required by statute. (Ord. 87-
1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-9: INVESTIGATIONS; APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The mayor shall investigate the statements in each application, and within
thirty (30) days after such application has been made to the village clerk, as
aforesaid, the mayor shall either approve or reject the application. In the
event the mayor approves the application and grants the license applied for,
the clerk shall issue the license to the applicants, upon the payment, in
advance, of the license fee required by this chapter and the execution of such
penal bond as aforesaid. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-10: TERMINATION OF LICENSE; PRORATING FEE:
Each license issued hereunder shall terminate on the one year anniversary of
the date of issuance. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-11: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution; provided, that executors or administrators of
the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for any period
in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the license in
accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-
1987)
4-1-12: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Qualification For Renewal: Any licensee may renew his license at the
expiration thereof, provided he is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purpose; and provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
village council from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its
jurisdiction. No retailer's license shall be renewed if the department of
revenue has reported to the Illinois liquor control commission that such
retailer is delinquent in filing any required tax returns or paying any amounts
owed to the state until the applicant is issued a certificate by the department
of revenue stating that all delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid
by guaranteed remittance, or the payment agreement to pay all amounts owed has
been accepted by the department. No retailer's license shall be renewed unless
the applicant provides documentation that any tax owed to the village by the
applicant has been satisfied by payment in the form of a cashier's check,
certified check, money order, or cash. (2003 Code)
   B.   Application For Renewal: Applications for renewal of licenses shall be
filed with the village clerk on or before the anniversary date of license
issuance. The clerk shall report the names of all applicants for renewals of
licenses to the mayor, together with the location of the place of business of
the applicant, and the amount of license fees payable upon the renewal of the
licenses, and whether or not any written complaint has been filed as to the
manner in which the applicant for renewal of a license has carried on the
business authorized thereby. All applications for renewals of licenses shall be
referred by the clerk to the mayor, as in the case of applications for original
licenses, and procedure for renewal thereof shall be as in the case of
applications for original licenses. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd.
2003 Code)
4-1-13: LICENSE TO BE POSTED; DUPLICATE LICENSES:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately post and keep posted while in force, in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises, the license so issued. Whenever such license shall be lost
or destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the village clerk.
(Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-14: DAYS AND HOURS OF SALES:
   A.   Days And Hours Established:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, or to give
away, in or upon any licensed premises, any alcoholic liquor except between the
hours of:
         a.   Seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the
following morning on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday.
         b.   Twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on
Sunday.
      2.   Said places of business shall close at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on
December 24 each year and not open again for business until the hour of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the following day.
      3.   Said places of business may remain open until three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. on January 1.
   B.   Interpretation Of Time: Standard time or daylight savings time,
whichever is in effect, shall control hours above mentioned. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-
1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
   C.   Presence On Premises During Prohibited Hours: The only persons allowed
on premises from closing hours to opening hours shall be the owner or manager
and actual persons cleaning up. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003
Code)
4-1-15: LOCATION AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Premises Restricted: Licenses, as defined in section
4-1-4 of this chapter, shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the
premises described in the application of the license. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987,
eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Sanitary Premises: All premises, regardless of the class of license
issued, shall be kept in a sanitary condition and shall be open to inspection
by the health officer, chief of police or any other authorized official of the
village. (Ord. 93-4, 3-2-1993)
   C.   Access Restrictions: Except in the case of wineries that have bed and
breakfast facilities, hotels, and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purpose and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by
the public. This subsection shall not prevent any connection between such
premises and such other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his family and personal guests. (2003 Code)
4-1-16: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Purchase By: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any place
in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   B.   False Identification: It shall be unlawful for any person to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   C.   Signs Posted: In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is
sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed
card which shall be supplied by the village clerk and which shall read
substantially as follows:
WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS.
You are subject to a fine up to $750 under Ordinance of the Village if you
purchase alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
   D.   Presence On Licensed Premises: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
retail liquor dealer's license or his or her agent or employee to suffer or
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21), and it shall be unlawful
for any person under the age of twenty one (21) to be or remain in any room or
compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where
such licensed premises is located; provided, that this subsection shall not
apply to any person under the age of twenty one (21) who is accompanied by his
or her parent or guardian. In addition to all other fines and penalties, the
mayor may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer's license for any
violation of this subsection.
   E.   Sales To: It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic
liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   F.   Employment Of:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor as an employee of any retail
licensee.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises.
   G.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to permit any minor child of which he or she may be the
parent or guardian to violate any of the provisions of this section. (Ord. 87-
1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-17: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Sales To Certain Persons: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
retail liquor dealer's license to sell, deliver or give any alcoholic liquor to
any intoxicated persons or persons under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Drinking In Public: No person shall, within the corporate limits of the
village, drink any alcoholic liquor in or upon any street, alley or any public
place whatsoever, or in or upon any vehicle commonly used for the
transportation of passengers or in or upon any depot, platform, or waiting room
of any public carrier.
   C.   Gambling Devices And Gambling: No gambling device of any kind
whatsoever shall be kept or used for the purpose of gambling in any such
establishment, store or club which barters, sells, exchanges or gives away
"alcoholic liquors" as defined herein, except as permitted by the video gaming
act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., and in accordance with the
following:
      1.   The establishment owner where a video gaming terminal facility is
utilized shall obtain a license for such device issued by the village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain or
use or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon an
establishment of any video gaming terminal unless a valid license issued under
this provision for the video gaming terminal is in effect.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver video gaming
terminals within the village for use by any other person for gain or profit
from the operation thereof unless the license therefor has been issued by the
village and the license fee has been paid for the current year.
      4.   Applications for the license required by this provision shall be
filed with the village clerk and shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name, address, age and date of birth of the owner of the
video gaming terminal facility and of the owner of the establishment where the
video gaming terminal shall be located.
         b.   Prior convictions of the owner of the video gaming terminal and
the owner of the establishment, if any.
         c.   The place where the video gaming terminal is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place.
         d.   A description of the video gaming terminal to be covered by the
license.
         e.   Evidence that licenses have been issued by the Illinois gaming
board to the owner of the video gaming terminal and the owner of the
establishment.
      5.   The annual fee for the license required hereunder shall be in the
amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      6.   Licenses issued hereunder shall terminate one year from issuance.
      7.   The license required hereunder shall be prominently displayed next
to the video gaming terminal.
      8.   The mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee hereunder within
five (5) business days of any charge of a violation of any of the requirements
pertaining to the operation of any video gaming terminal. After a hearing
presided over by the mayor, the mayor may order the revocation of the license
upon a finding that a violation has occurred, and the license thereupon shall
be terminated.
   D.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village. (Ord. 10-12, 11-6-2012)
4-1-18: CONTAINERS TO BE LABELED AND STAMPED:
No licensee under this chapter shall sell or deliver any package containing
alcoholic liquor to any other person or shall sell the contents of any such
package for consumption on the premises, unless such package shall have affixed
thereto all canceled revenue stamps which may be required by federal or state
laws and unless same shall also bear thereon a clear and legible label,
containing the name of the manufacturer, the kind of alcoholic liquor contained
therein, the date when manufactured and the alcoholic content thereof. No
licensee under this chapter shall sell or have in his possession or use any
package or container of alcoholic liquor which does not comply with the above
requirements or which did not comply therewith at the time same was delivered
to him. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987)
4-1-19: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES:
   A.   Basis For Suspension Or Revocation:
      1.   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by
the mayor for any one or more of the following reasons:
         a.   Violation of the laws of the state of Illinois or any of the
provisions of this chapter.
         b.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
application for a license.
      2.   The mayor may revoke or suspend any license issued by him if he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of any valid
ordinance or resolution or any applicable rule or regulation which is not
inconsistent with law.
      3.   Permitting any illegal, disorderly or immoral practices upon
licensed premises. (Ord. 87-1, 4-7-1987, eff. 4-7-1987; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Fines: In addition to the suspension, the mayor may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period,
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more
than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines under this subsection may
be imposed against any licensee during the period of his license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the village treasury.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   No license shall be revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be
fined except after a public hearing by the mayor with a three (3) day written
notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public, and the mayor shall
reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the
proceedings.
      2.   If the mayor has reason to believe that any continued operation of a
particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the
community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for
such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period; except, that if such licensee shall also be
engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed
premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   D.   Decision: The mayor shall, within five (5) days after such hearing, if
he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reasons for such
determination in a written order, and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and shall serve a copy of
such order upon the licensee within the five (5) days. (2003 Code)
4-1-20: VIOLATIONS; CONSEQUENCES:
Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation, the license of said
licensee may, in the discretion of the mayor, be revoked and forfeited, and all
fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and the bond given by said licensee to
secure such licensee's faithful compliance with the terms of this chapter shall
be forfeited, and it shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a
further violation for said licensee to continue to operate under said license.
(2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
COIN-IN-THE-SLOT AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: License Required
4-2-3: Application For License
4-2-4: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-2-5: License Fee; Refund
4-2-6: Term Of License
4-2-7: Number Of Devices
4-2-8: Underage Persons Restricted
4-2-9: Disposition Of Revenues
4-2-10: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
COIN-IN-THE-SLOT: Includes devices operated by coins or tokens.
COIN-IN-THE-SLOT AMUSEMENT DEVICE: A. A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical
device which is designed to be played for amusement and which, in its
operation, shoots or propels an electric light ray or impulse from a gun held
and operated by the player of the device, to a target which contains a
receiving photoelectric cell.
   B.   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical bowling, pool table,
shuffleboard or pinball device which is designed to be played for amusement and
which, in its operation, delivers to the player thereof, one or more balls or
other projectiles which must be rolled from or impelled by the hand of the
player or by mechanical or other device, into a cup or receptacle or other
scoring device.
   C.   A coin-in-the-slot operated computer or mechanical device which is
designed to be played for amusement and which in its operation uses a video
display activated and controlled by the player.
LOCATION: A business enterprise operated as a unit, whether on one or more
floors or in one or more buildings.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any premises wherein any coin-in-the-slot amusement device
is kept for gain or profit on any premises, including premises used as a
clubhouse or club rooms. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation or club to keep or use in any place of business located within the
corporate limits of the village any coin-in-the-slot amusement devices as
herein described unless licensed as provided for herein.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation or club to display or cause to be displayed for play by the public
any coin-in-the-slot amusement device described in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, unless such person, partnership, firm, association,
corporation or club shall first obtain from the village an operator's license.
(Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
In order to obtain a license to operate a coin-in-the-slot amusement device
described in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, within the village limits, the applicant shall file with
the village clerk a written statement setting forth the full name and address
of the applicant or applicants, or the names and addresses of the stockholders
of the corporation if the applicant is a corporation, or the names and
addresses of the officers of any club or association, and the present or last
occupation of the applicant or applicants as of the time of the filing of the
application. Said application shall be signed by the applicant, or in the case
of a firm, corporation, club or association, an authorized signatory who shall
file, along with the application, proof of his or her authorization, which
application shall be referred by the village clerk to the mayor of the village.
(Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The mayor shall investigate the applicant and make his report and
recommendation to the village council. Upon approval of the application by the
village council, said operator's license shall be issued; provided, that no
operator's license shall be issued by the village to any of the following:
   A.   A person who has not been a bona fide resident of the village for at
least six (6) months immediately preceding the filing of the application.
   B.   A person who is not of good character or reputation in the village.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States of America.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the state
of Illinois or any other state or federal government.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   F.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of an operator's
license hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   G.   A corporation, if any officer, manager, director or shareholder would
not be eligible to receive an operator's license hereunder for any reason.
   H.   A person who is a law enforcing public official, mayor or a member of
the council. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-5: LICENSE FEE; REFUND:
Each application for an operator's license hereunder shall be accompanied by
the annual fee amounting to twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each machine. Said
annual operator's license fee shall be paid to the village clerk. The village
reserves the right to reject any and all applications for an operator's license
hereunder or for the renewal of any operator's license previously issued by the
village, and upon any such rejection, the license fee paid by the applicant
shall be returned. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
An operator's license shall be issued for one year. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997; amd.
2003 Code)
4-2-7: NUMBER OF DEVICES:
No person, firm, corporation, club, partnership or association, licensed
hereunder, shall display or cause to be displayed more than ten (10) coin-in-
the-slot amusement devices in one location at any one time. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-
1997)
4-2-8: UNDERAGE PERSONS RESTRICTED:
No person of less than fourteen (14) years of age shall be allowed or permitted
to play any coin-in-the-slot amusement device unless accompanied by one or more
of his or her parents and/or legal guardians. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-9: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
The village clerk shall deposit all funds received under this chapter into the
general fund of the village. (Ord. 12-97, 7-1-1997)
4-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation, club, partnership or association convicted of
violating the terms of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, with each day being considered a separate violation. (Ord.
12-97, 7-1-1997)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Required; Possession, Return Upon Expiration Required
4-3-3: To Leave Premises When Requested
4-3-4: Unlawful Conduct
4-3-5: Hours And Days Of Operation
4-3-6: False Representation
4-3-7: Waiver Of Requirements For Local Charitable Solicitation, Community Or
Religious In Nature
4-3-8: Application For Permit
4-3-9: Persons Ineligible For Permit
4-3-10: Denial Or Issuance Of Permit
4-3-11: Records
4-3-12: Revocation; Grounds
4-3-13: Expiration
4-3-14: Fee For Permit
4-3-15: Appeal From Denial Or Revocation
4-3-16: Violation; Punishment
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall be defined as
follows:
 
                    Any person interviewing, examining or obtaining
CANVASSER:          information, or attempting to do so, from house to house,
                    building to building, or upon any street, highway or
                    sidewalk within the Village.
                    Any person, either principal or agent who engages in or
                    conducts, either in one locality or in traveling from place
                    to place, a temporary or transient business of selling
                    goods, wares and merchandise with the intention of
                    continuing such business in the Village of a period of not
                    more than one hundred and twenty (120) days and who, for
                    the purpose of carrying on such business, uses, leases or
                    occupies either in whole or in part a room, building or
                    other structure for the exhibition and sale of such goods,
ITINERANT MERCHANT: wares and merchandise. The provision of this article shall
                    not apply to sales made to dealers by commercial travelers
                    or selling agents in the usual course of business, nor to
                    bona fide sales of goods, wares and merchandise by sample
                    or for future delivery, nor to sales made by farmers or
                    others of goods, wares and merchandise which are products
                    of the soil and grown, prepared and marketed thereof, but
                    shall apply to all others on the streets, or peddlers on
                    foot or from vehicles of any goods, wares and merchandise
                    of whatsoever or character within the Village.
                    Any person selling or attempting to sell any goods, wares,
                    merchandise or services of any kind and nature, being
PEDDLER:            carried on or transported for immediate delivery or
                    performance from house to house, building to building, or
                    upon any street, highway or sidewalk within the Village.
                    Any person(s) or entity required to obtain a solicitor,
PERMIT HOLDER:      itinerant merchant, vendor, peddler and/or canvasser permit
                    as outlined in this Chapter.
                    Any person (1) soliciting or attempting to solicit or take
                    orders, from house to house, building to building, or upon
                    any street, highway or sidewalk within the Village of
                    Leland, for any goods, wares, or merchandise, foodstuffs,
                    services, or insurance of any type or description,
SOLICITOR:          subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers
                    or any other kind of publication, or other sale of property
                    or services; or (2) seeking to obtain gifts or
                    contributions of money, clothing, or any other valuable
                    thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or
                    nonprofit association, organization, corporation or
                    project.
                    Any person who sells or offers consumable items upon any of
                    the public streets, avenues or places in this village from
                    stands, wagons, baskets or from any automobile or truck.
VENDOR:             The provision of this chapter shall not apply to persons
                    doing business from stands are regularly established houses
                    or stores provided such stands do no protrude more than two
                    feet from the lot line of such store. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-
                    2022)
 
4-3-2: REQUIRED; POSSESSION, RETURN UPON EXPIRATION REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in soliciting, peddling or canvassing from persons in a
residence within this Village or in a public place (except if such merchandise
is for the sale to a business within the Village of a merchandise necessary for
the furtherance of the business or otherwise provided by law), without having
been issued a valid permit, as hereunder provided, by the Police Chief and/or
Mayor. The permit shall be in the possession of the solicitor, itinerant
merchant, vendor, peddler, or canvasser and shall be displayed immediately upon
confronting any person for the act thereof.
Within five days of termination of the permit, the person(s) or entity so
registered will be required to return the permit to the Police Chief and/or
Mayor. Failure to comply will be grounds for refusal of issuance of any
subsequent permits for purposes of soliciting under this chapter.
Should the permit be lost or the permit cannot be returned to the Police Chief
and/or Mayor, the person(s) or entity shall deliver to the Police Chief and/or
Mayor an affidavit, in a form satisfactory to the Village, that possession of
the permit no longer exists and a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for procession
of this affidavit will be required. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-3: TO LEAVE PREMISES WHEN REQUESTED:
Any permit holder who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or
not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested
to do so by the occupant. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-4: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful, and shall constitute a nuisance, for any
permit holder to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon aor near any
door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the
attention of the occupant thereof and engage or attempt to engage in the
business of soliciting, peddling or canvassing, as herein defined, if not
registered and in possession of a valid permit as required by this chapter.
It shall further, and is hereby declared to be, unlawful and shall constitute a
nuisance to engage in canvassing, peddling or solicitation upon any premises or
residence located thereon if such premises or residence is posted against
canvassing solicitation or peddling by means of a notice, prominently displayed
giving fair notice that canvassers, solicitors, or peddlers are prohibited or
that only canvassers, solicitors, or peddlers registered with the Village of
Leland are allowed. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-5: HOURS AND DAYS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Solicitors, peddlers and canvassers: It is hereby declared to be
unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person, whether permitted
pursuant to this article or not, to engage in soliciting, peddling and/or
canvassing prior to nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o’clock (8:00) P.M.
Monday through Friday and after six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday or at any
time on a Sunday or at a state or national holiday, except at the prior
invitation or request of the occupant.
   B.   Itinerant merchants: It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall
constitute a nuisance for any person, whether permitted pursuant to this
article or not, to act as an itinerant merchant prior to nine o’clock (9:00)
A.M. or after eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. Monday through Friday and after six
o’clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday or at any time on a Sunday or a state or
national holiday. An exception will be granted for times when engaged in
activities in conjunction with a city permitted special event/festival.
   C.   Vendors: It is hereby declared unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person, whether permitted pursuant to this article or not, to act as a
vendor prior to seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. or after ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
Monday through Sunday. An exception will be granted for times when engaged in
activities in conjunction with a city permitted special event/festival. (Ord.
22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-6: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
Any solicitor, itinerant merchant, vendor, peddler, or canvasser who shall be
guilty of any fraud, cheating or misrepresentation, whether through himself or
through an employee, while acting as a solicitor, itinerant merchant, vendor,
peddler or canvasser in the Village or who shall sell, barter or peddler any
goods or merchandise, or wares other than those specified in application for a
permit shall be subject to punishment as provided in this article and the
Police Chief and/or Mayor may revoke his/her permit for such offense. (Ord. 22-
02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-7: WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS FOR LOCAL CHARITABLE SOLICITATION, COMMUNITY OR
RELIGIOUS IN NATURE:
The registration requirements of this ordinance may be waived by the Police
Chief and or Mayor in those instances where it is determined, following an
investigation made upon receipt of an application by an organization complying
with the conditions of this section, that the proposed solicitation is to be a
single solicitation effort conducted for or on behalf of a charitable or
nonprofit association, organization or project solely by residents of this or
immediately neighboring municipalities who shall not be compensated tor
conducting such solicitation and who have not violated any provisions of this
chapter which would otherwise cause a revocation of a registration certificate.
No solicitation pursuant to this section shall be made in violation of the
limitations of this chapter.
The requirement that a permit be obtained shall not apply to:
   A.   Such organizations as the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts.
   B.   School-sponsored functions of schools located within the Village and
neighboring communities.
   C.   Religious organizations.
   D.   Regularly established route men with regularly established routes
within the Village, or other persons having an established list of customers
within the Village whom they make periodic deliveries.
   E.   Any retail merchant, located in the Village who solicits orders for
his/her goods, wares or merchandise or for services on a continuing and ongoing
basis.
   F.   Officers or employees of the Village, county, state or federal
government, or any subdivision thereof, when on official business.
   G.   Persons soliciting or canvassing for purposes of promoting candidate,
party, or public policy issue with respect to a referendum on the ballot at an
upcoming election.
   H.   The canvass for the United States Census or other similar census.
   I.   Trick or treating on Halloween.
An organization under this section may not engage in soliciting prior to nine
o’clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. Monday through Friday
and after six o’clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday or at any time on a Sunday or a
State or national holiday. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-8: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a permit required by this chapter shall be made upon a form
provided by the Police Chief and filed with the Village Clerk’s office twenty-
one (21) days prior to the issuance of a permit. The application shall include
a twenty-five dollars ($25.00) non-refundable application fee. All applications
shall include a background check waiver form. The applicant shall truthfully
state in full the information requested on the application, to with:
   A.   The applicant’s name and present address, and length of residence at
such address, business address if other than residence address; and phone
number.
   B.   A copy of applicant’s driver’s license and that of each individual
acting on behalf of the applicant.
   C.   The applicant’s address or place of residence during the past three
years, if other than his present address.
   D.   The age of the applicant and marital status; and, if married, the name
of spouse.
   E.   A physical description of applicant.
   F.   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
by whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
   G.   The name and address of the applicant’s employer during the past three
years, if other than the present employer.
   H.   A description, sufficient for identification, of the subject matter of
the canvassing, soliciting or peddling which the applicant will engage in,
including a description of any merchandise being sold or for which orders are
being solicited.
   I.   The period of time for which the permit is being applied for.
      1.   One to two days for solicitor, peddler or canvasser permit.
      2.   No more than one hundred and twenty (120) days for Itinerant
Merchant Permit.
      3.   Number of months for Vendor Permit (Vendor permits follow the city’s
fiscal year April 1 through May 30).
   J.    The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under the ordinance, if any.
   K.   Whether a permit issued to the applicant under this article, or any
other article in any municipality, has ever been revoked.
   L.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of any of
the provisions of this article, or the ordinance of any other municipality of
this state regulating soliciting or peddling.
   M.   Whether the applicant or any individual acting on behalf of the
applicant has ever been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws
of this state or any other state, or a federal law of the United States.
   N.   The commodities to be sold and the location intended to be occupied or
used for the business, if the application is for an itinerant merchant.
   O.   Such additional information as the Police Chief and/or Mayor may deem
necessary to process the application, such as but not limited to,
fingerprinting of the applicant.
   P.   If the applicant is a corporation or partnership or sole
proprietorship. If a corporation, the state of incorporation, whether the
corporation is qualified to do business in Illinois, the registered agent of
the corporation, and the principal place of business of the corporation.
   Q.   The applicant’s Federal Employment Identification Number and State of
Illinois Tax Identification Number.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath and made subject to all penalties for perjury as
provided by state law.
Failure to fully comply with the application and disclosure requirements of
this section shall constitute grounds for the Village to deny issuance of a
permit. The permit holder shall notify the Village within thirty (30) days of
any charges in application information. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-9: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR PERMIT:
No permit shall be issued under this chapter to any applicant in the following
circumstances:
   A.   Any convictions of a felony within the past ten (10) years.
   B.   Any convictions of misdemeanor, which misdemeanor involves any of the
following offenses:
      1.   Unlawful possession with the intent to deliver, any controlled
substance as such term is defined in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act (720
ILCA 570/100 et seq.), as amended from time to time; or cannabis, as defined in
the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.), as amended from time to
time; or
      2.   An intoxicating compound, as listed or defined in the Intoxicating
Compounds Act (720 ILCS 690/0.01 et seq.), as amended from time to time, within
the past five (5) years.
      3.   Unlawful possession of any controlled substance, cannabis or
intoxicating compound within the past five (5) years.
      4.   Any offense involving moral turpitude, including, but not limited to
any offense involving the misapplication, misappropriation or misuse of funds
of another person within the past five (5) years.
      5.   Driver’s license suspended or revoked in any state within the past
five (5) years as a consequence of violations of law concerning the operation
of a motor vehicle.
   C.   Any requirement to register as a sex offender as required by the Sex
Offender Registration Act or violent offender as required by the murderer and
violent crime against youth registration act, (730 ILCS 150 et seq.) or (730
ILCS 154/5 et seq.), or has been convicted of criminal sexual assault and/or
criminal sexual abuse, as such offenses are defined in the Illinois Criminal
Code (720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.), or any like offense of another state or country.
   D.   Any misrepresentation or omitted material fact in the application for a
permit.
   E.   The proposed operation is in violation of any federal, state or local
laws. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-10: DENIAL OR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The Police Chief and/or Mayor, after consideration of the application for a
permit pursuant to this article and all information obtained relative thereof,
shall deny the application if determined the applicant does not possess the
qualifications for the permit, and that the issuance of a permit to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Endorsement shall be made by the Police Chief and/or Mayor upon the application
of the denial or approval of the application. When the applicant is found to be
fully qualified, the permit shall be issued forthwith. The Police Chief and/or
Mayor will inform the applicant of denial or approval of their application and
the fee due and owing, if approved. The Police Chief and/or Mayor will deliver
the permit to the Village Clerk’s office where the applicant must make payment.
Upon payment, the permit will be issued to the applicant. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-
2022)
4-3-11: RECORDS:
The Police Chief shall cause to be kept an accurate record of each application
received and acted upon pursuant to this chapter, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all permits issued under the
provision of this article, and of the denial of the applications. Applications
for permit shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every permit
issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number
of the application upon which it was issued. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-12: REVOCATION; GROUNDS:
Any permit issued shall be revoked by the Police Chief and/or Mayor under any
of the following circumstances:
   A.   If the holder of the permit is found to be in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   If the applicant made a false material statement in the application, or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a permit under the terms of
this article.
   C.   If three complaints are received on any one individual for unethical
soliciting practices, at the Police Chiefs and/or Mayor’s discretion and after
a review of the complaints.
   D.    If the information being given regarding the merchandise, the method
of purchase, the purchase price or any other pertinent information is false or
misrepresented, then the registration of any individual and any or all persons
soliciting for an organization, business, firm or corporation may be revoked.
   E.   If five complaints are received on the behavior of an individual or any
group of persons for the same firm, business, corporation or organization, the
registration of the group of person soliciting for the firm, business,
corporation, or organization may be revoked.
   F.   If the permit holder is operating in such a manner that constitutes a
public nuisance as defined in the Village Code.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
Police Chief and/or Mayor to hte holder of the permit in person or by certified
U.S. mail addressed to his residence address set forth in the application.
Immediately upon the giving of notice of revocation, the permit shall become
null and void. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-13: EXPIRATION:
The permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on the date shown on
the face of the permit. No permit shall be issued for a period of longer than
two days after the date of issuance of the permit. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-14: FEE FOR PERMIT:
All persons being issued a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall
pay a fee to the Village Clerk in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day.
Such permit shall be issued for up to a maximum of two days. The permit fee may
be waived in relation to sales of produce from farms of agricultural operations
located within a twenty-five (25) mile radius of the Village of Leland. It
shall be unlawful to conduct business as a solicitor, itinerant merchant,
vendor, peddler ro canvasser within the Village until the fee as been paid. All
permit holders shall keep their permit and receipt for payment of the fee on
their person at all times. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
4-3-15: APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
If the Village determines, after investigation, that cause exists for denial or
revocation of a permit, the Village shall notify the applicant or permit holder
in writing that its permit will be denied or revoked, setting forth the reasons
therefore, and advising the applicant or permit holder of the right to appeal.
Any person who has been refused issuance of a permit or whose permit has been
revoked may, within ten days of receipt of notice of such action, appeal such
decision to the Village council by filing a statement requesting such appeal
with the Police Chief and/or Mayor. Upon receipt of such a notice the Police
Chief and/or Mayor shall forward it to the council and the council shall set a
date for a hearing, which hearing shall be held within a reasonable time after
the filing of the notice. At the hearing the council shall review the Police
Chief and/or Mayor actions. The appellant shall be given adequate notice of the
hearing and shall be afforded due process at the hearing. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-
2022)
4-3-16: VIOLATION; PUNISHMENT:
Any person violating or aiding or abetting the violation of any provision of
this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day a person fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
constitutes a separate offense. (Ord. 22-02, 5-3-2022)
CHAPTER 4
SALES ACTIVITIES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-4-1: Permit Required; Application
4-4-2: Bond And Insurance Required
4-4-3: Permit Fee
4-4-4: Duration Of Permit
4-4-5: Availability Of Permit
4-4-6: Compliance With Other Provisions
4-4-7: Termination Of Activity; Condition Of Property
4-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
Any person choosing to use the parks or other municipal realty for the conduct
of auctions, flea markets, or other similar such temporary sales activities
must first submit an application on an approved form, and shall not conduct any
such activity on public property unless and until a permit is issued. (Ord., 3-
5-1991)
4-4-2: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Bond: The application must be accompanied by a cash bond in the form of
a cashier's check, certified check or money order in the amount of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) as bond to ensure compliance with this chapter and
other ordinances of the village.
   B.   Liability Insurance: The application shall also be accompanied by a
liability insurance binder providing public liability insurance in the amount
of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence, naming
the applicant and the village, a municipal corporation, as insureds.
   C.   Indemnification: The applicant must agree to indemnify and hold
harmless the village, its officials and employees from any and all claims,
damages, liability, losses, actions, suits or judgments that may be sustained,
brought or obtained against the village or any of its officials or employees in
any way arising out of or related to the activities for which the permit is
granted or the condition of the property upon which such activities are
conducted. (Ord., 3-5-1991)
4-4-3: PERMIT FEE:
The applicant shall submit with the application a nonrefundable application fee
of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord., 3-5-1991)
4-4-4: DURATION OF PERMIT:
A permit shall be valid for a specific place and time, not to exceed forty
eight (48) hours. (Ord., 3-5-1991)
4-4-5: AVAILABILITY OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued hereunder shall at all times be available for inspection
during the permitted activity. (Ord., 3-5-1991)
4-4-6: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER PROVISIONS:
The applicant shall comply with all other ordinances of the village, to include
the zoning law, and all other local, state, and federal laws, to include
obtaining all other required licenses and permits. (Ord., 3-5-1991)
4-4-7: TERMINATION OF ACTIVITY; CONDITION OF PROPERTY:
The applicant shall leave municipal property in at least as good as condition
of cleanliness and repair as at the time of the commencement of the permitted
activity. (Ord., 3-5-1991)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Application For License
4-5-4: License Fees; Proration
4-5-5: Character Of Licensee
4-5-6: Site Requirements
4-5-7: Utilities And Sanitation
4-5-8: Supervision Of Park
4-5-9: Inspection Of Parks
4-5-10: Permanent Use Of Mobile Home
4-5-11: Storage Of Uninhabited Mobile Homes; Existing Mobile Homes
4-5-12: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated
in this section:
MOBILE HOME: Means and includes any vehicle or similar portable structure
constructed so as to permit its being used as a conveyance on a public street
and so as to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling by one or more persons.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Means and includes an area of land on which two (2) or more
occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue,
together with any building, structure, or enclosure used as part of the
equipment of such park. (1966 Code § 12.001; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to establish, maintain or operate any mobile home park in
the village without first having obtained a license therefor. (1966 Code §
12.002; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made in writing to the clerk, and shall
contain the name of the applicant, the location of the proposed park, and the
number of mobile homes to be accommodated. Each such application shall be
accompanied by a plat or sketch showing the size and location of all buildings
and structures. (1966 Code §§ 12.002, 12.003; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-4: LICENSE FEES; PRORATION:
The annual fee for such licenses shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
plus fifty dollars ($50.00) for each mobile home over five (5) for which
accommodations exist. If the number is increased, this shall be reported to the
clerk, and the additional fee, if any, necessitated by such increase shall be
paid before the additional spaces are put to use. When a license is applied
for, or accommodations are increased during the license year, the fee shall be
prorated on the basis of the number of months remaining in the license year.
(1966 Code § 12.004)
4-5-5: CHARACTER OF LICENSEE:
No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character, nor to
any corporation if any officer thereof is not a person of good character. (1966
Code § 12.006)
4-5-6: SITE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Size Of Space: Each mobile home shall be allotted a site of not less
than three thousand three hundred (3,300) square feet.
   B.   Location Of Spaces On Lots: No mobile home shall be parked closer than
twelve feet (12') to the side lines of a mobile home park if the abutting
property is improved property, or closer than twenty feet (20') to a public
street, alley, or building.
   C.   Access: Each individual mobile home site shall abut or face on a
driveway or clear unoccupied space of not less than thirty feet (30') in width,
which space shall have unobstructed access to a public highway or alley.
   D.   Open Space Requirements: There shall be an open space of at least
twenty four feet (24') between the sides of every mobile home and at least
twenty four feet (24') between the ends of every mobile home. (1966 Code §
12.008; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-7: UTILITIES AND SANITATION:
   A.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes from the village water supply system shall be supplied to
meet the requirements of the mobile home park. Said water shall be obtained
from faucets only, conveniently located in the park. No common drinking cups
shall be permitted, and a water meter shall be installed in each park. (1966
Code § 12.009; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Sanitation Facilities: Each mobile home park shall provide toilets and
baths or showers which shall comply with the provisions of the ordinances
relating thereto, with separate accommodations for men and women. (1966 Code §
12.010; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Sewage Disposal: Each mobile home in the park shall be required to
connect to the village sanitary sewer system. (1966 Code § 12.013; amd. 2003
Code)
   D.   Garbage Collection: It shall be the duty of the owner, his agent, or
caretaker to provide for the collection and removal of garbage or other waste
material and to otherwise maintain the park in a clean and sanitary condition.
(1966 Code § 12.011)
   E.   Lighting: The parks shall be kept properly and adequately lighted at
all times so that the grounds shall be safe for occupants and visitors. (1966
Code § 12.012)
4-5-8: SUPERVISION OF PARK:
   A.   Attendant Required: Each mobile home park, while operated, shall be in
the charge of a responsible attendant or caretaker at all times who shall be
responsible, with the licensee, for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter relating to the conduct of such parks. (1966 Code § 12.007; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Character Of Attendant: It shall be unlawful to hire or keep as
manager, superintendent or person in charge of a mobile home park any person
who is not a person of good character or any person who has been convicted of a
felony. (1966 Code § 12.006; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-9: INSPECTION OF PARKS:
The council shall hire an individual at a yearly salary, not to exceed the
amount of the fees realized from the license fees herein required, to inspect
each mobile home park as may be established within the village as often as
deemed necessary by the village. Said individual shall be empowered to correct
any violation of this chapter. (1966 Code § 12.005; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-10: PERMANENT USE OF MOBILE HOME:
   A.   Location In Park Required: Except as provided in section
11-9-4 of this code, it shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any mobile
home, used for human habitation, upon any plot of ground in the village except
in a licensed mobile home park 1 .
   B.   Building Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove
the wheels or other transporting device from any mobile home or otherwise to
affix said mobile home permanently to the ground so as to prevent ready removal
of such mobile home, unless a permit to do so is obtained as required for the
construction of a new building. Any such alteration shall be construed as
converting the mobile home into a building and subject to the requirements of
the zoning and building ordinances now existing or as may hereafter be adopted
by the village.
   C.   Compliance With Village Provisions: It shall be unlawful to occupy for
sleeping or other residence purposes any mobile home which has been rendered
immobile by the removal of wheels, or placing the same on a foundation, or on
the ground, unless such mobile home in construction and location complies with
the ordinances relating to the construction, wiring, plumbing, sewer facilities
and other regulations applicable to single-family dwellings. (1966 Code §
12.014; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-10-9 of this code.
4-5-11: STORAGE OF UNINHABITED MOBILE HOMES; EXISTING MOBILE HOMES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
mobile home for any length of time when said mobile home is not used for living
or sleeping purposes, nor affect any existing mobile homes now located within
the limits of the village; except, that no transfers shall be hereinafter made
by the present owners without complying with the terms of this chapter. (1966
Code § 12.015; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code § 12.016; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Licenses; Fees
4-6-3: Application; Issuance
4-6-4: License
4-6-5: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the term "motor vehicle" is used in this chapter, it shall be
construed to include cars, trucks and motor homes. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to apply to or affect bicycles, tricycles or such other
vehicles as are propelled by human power exclusively or operated on rails or
motorized wheelchairs, motorcycles, or motorbikes. A motor vehicle, as used in
this chapter, shall not include a commercial motor vehicle as defined in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18b-101. (Ord. 4-03, 3-4-2003)
4-6-2: LICENSES; FEES:
Every owner of a motor vehicle who resides within the village shall be required
to pay each year by January 2 for such year to the village clerk a tax or
license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for the use of each motor vehicle used on
any public street or highway within the village, except as to such owner sixty
five (65) years or older such tax or license fee shall be seven dollars fifty
cents ($7.50). In the event the appropriate fee is not paid by January 31, the
fee shall be twenty dollars ($20.00), or in the case of an owner sixty five
(65) years or older a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00). (Ord. 4-03, 3-4-2003)
4-6-3: APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
Every owner of a motor vehicle desiring a license for such motor vehicle shall
file an application with the village clerk, upon a form provided, setting forth
the name and address of the applicant and a description of the motor vehicle
for which the license is desired. Upon the payment by the applicant of the fee
prescribed, the village clerk shall issue or cause to be issued a license which
shall be attached by the clerk, authorizing the use of such motor vehicle
within the village until the expiration of such license, which license shall
expire on December 31. (Ord. 4-03, 3-4-2003)
4-6-4: LICENSE:
Each applicant upon payment of the fee shall be given a sticker, without
further charge, of such design and materials as may be approved by the village
council, which sticker shall be fastened in a prominent and visible place on
the front of the vehicle at all times that it is operated in the village. (Ord.
4-03, 3-4-2003)
4-6-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 4-03, 3-4-2003)
CHAPTER 7
RAFFLES
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Penalties
4-7-3: License Requirements
4-7-4: Multiple Raffles
4-7-5: Licensee Qualifications
4-7-6: Application
4-7-7: Conduct Of Raffles
4-7-8: Raffles Manager
4-7-9: Records
4-7-10: Fee Schedule
4-7-11: Limitations
4-7-12: Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BUSINESS ORGANIZATION: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and
businesses who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interest of a community.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those
eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit upon the public.
EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods
common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their
scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported
schools.
FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to
provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens
of government by caring for those who otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of the betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit
and the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupants.
LICENSEE: An organization which has been issued a license to operate a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized, operated and conducted on
a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit incurring to anyone as a result
of such operation.
PERSON: An individual, firm, organization, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association.
RAFFLE:
   A.   A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code
of 1961, conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
      1.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one (1) or more of which chances is to be designated the
winning chance; and
      2.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS ORGANIZATION: An organization or association comprised of members of
which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-2: PENALTIES:
Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall constitute
a violation; and any person, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
punishment as provided in section
1-4-1 of the this Code. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-3: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a raffle or to sell, offer for sale,
convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a raffle unless such
raffle has been licensed in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-
2016)
4-7-4: MULTIPLE RAFFLES:
A license issued under this chapter shall apply for all raffles conducted by
the licensee during the calendar year for which the license is issued. (Ord.
05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-5: LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, business, religious and veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before making
application for license and which have had during the entire five (5) year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a
nonprofit fund raising organization that the Mayor determines is organized for
the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual
or group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of
illness, disability, accident or disaster. The following are ineligible for any
raffle license:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A1 through
A3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or in
which such person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A1 through
A3 of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or
not; and
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A1 through
A3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-6: APPLICATION:
   A.   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an
application therefor with the Village Clerk on forms provided by the Village
Clerk. Such application shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the organization and evidence it is a
qualified applicant under section
4-7-5 of this chapter.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the organization's
presiding officer and Raffles Manager.
      3.   The maximum price to be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold.
      4.   The geographic area of areas in which raffle chances will be sold or
issued.
      5.   The maximum number of days during which raffle chances will be
determined.
      6.   The times and locations at which winning chances will be determined.
      7.   The certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-7: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee;
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate
in the management or operation of the raffle;
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle;
      4.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter;
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license;
and the winning chances may be determined only at the location specified on the
license or as amended pursuant to section
4-7-6 of this chapter;
      6.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the operation or conduct of raffles except with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parent
or guardian. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-8: RAFFLES MANAGER:
The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of a
single Raffle Manager designated by the licensee. The Manager shall give a
fidelity bond equal in the amount to the estimated aggregate retail value of
all prizes to be awarded in favor of the licensee conditioned upon his honesty
in the performance of his duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the Village not less than thirty (30) days
prior to its cancellation. The Village Council may waive this bond requirement
by including a waiver provision in the licenses issued to an organization under
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/1 et seq.; provided that a license containing
such waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of
the licensed organization. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-9: RECORDS:
   A.   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and the date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to a license
therefor issued by the State Department of Revenues, and placed in a separate
account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its raffles. The person
who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation
of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the
licensee.
   C.   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the Village its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the raffle, and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required in this section. Such report shall be made
promptly after the conclusion of each raffle.
   D.   Raffle records shall be preserved for three (3) years and organizations
shall make available their records relating to the operation of raffles for
public inspection at reasonable times and places. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-10: FEE SCHEDULE:
A licensing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for an annual license and ten
dollars ($10.00) for a single raffle shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the
time the application for a raffle license is filed. All application fees are
nonrefundable even if the license is denied. The license shall be applicable
only for the calendar year in which it is issued or for the specific raffle and
there shall be no proration of application fees for any partial calendar year.
(Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
4-7-11: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and
chances in connection with any raffle conducted with the Village:
      1.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
      2.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
      3.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed three hundred sixty five (365) days. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-
2016)
4-7-12: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
Pursuant to 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/2, the Mayor, for and on behalf
of the Village, may enter into a written contract with any County and/or one
(1) or more municipalities providing for the establishment of a system for the
licensing of organizations to operate raffles within any area of contiguous
territory not contained within the Village. (Ord. 05-16, 7-5-2016)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
4-8-3: Public Nuisance Declared
4-8-4: Violations
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
                                        A cultivation center, craft grower,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS             processing organization, infuser
ESTABLISHMENT:                          organization, dispensing organization
                                        or transporting organization.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, dry, cure and package
                                        cannabis and perform other necessary
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:        activities to make cannabis available
                                        for sale at a dispensing organization
                                        or use at a processing organization,
                                        per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
                                        Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be
                                        amended from time-to-time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, process, transport and
                                        perform necessary activities to provide
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:  cannabis and cannabis infused products
                                        to licensed cannabis business
                                        establishments, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
                                        0027), as it may be amended from time-
                                        to-time, and regulations promulgated
                                        thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Financial and
                                        Profession Regulation to acquire
                                        cannabis from licensed cannabis
                                        business establishments for the purpose
                                        of selling or dispensing cannabis,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING           cannabis-infused products, cannabis
ORGANIZATION:                           seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                        supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                        registered medical cannabis patients
                                        and caregivers, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
                                        0027), as it may be amended from time-
                                        to-time, and regulations promulgated
                                        thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        directly incorporate cannabis or
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION cannabis concentrate into a product
OR INFUSER:                             formulation to produce a cannabis-
                                        infused product, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulations and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
                                        0027), as it may be amended from time-
                                        to-time, and regulations promulgated
                                        thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        either extract constituent chemicals or
                                        compounds to produce cannabis
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING           concentrate or incorporate cannabis or
ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR:              cannabis concentrate into a product
                                        formulation to produce a cannabis
                                        product, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
                                        be amended from time-to-time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        An organization or business that is
                                        licensed by the Illinois Department of
                                        Agriculture to transport cannabis on
                                        behalf of a cannabis business
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING         establishment or a community college
ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER:            licensed under the Community College
                                        Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
                                        Program, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
                                        be amended from time-to-time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        Any person, firm, corporation,
                                        association, club, society or other
PERSON:                                 organization, including any owner,
                                        manager, proprietor, employee,
                                        volunteer or agent. (Ord. 09-19, 12-3-
                                        2019)
 
4-8-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Leland. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Leland
any of the following:
   A.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower.
   B.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center.
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser.
   E.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor.
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter. (Ord. 09-
19, 12-3-2019)
4-8-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the village
in violation of the provisions of this chapter is unlawful and prohibited and
is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all
available remedies. (Ord. 09-19, 12-3-2019)
4-8-4: VIOLATIONS:
A person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall
be deemed to be a separate offense. The village may also seek a court order to
abate the nuisance. The person or persons responsible for such nuisance shall
be liable for the village’s costs in seeking abatement to include attorney
fees. (Ord. 09-19, 12-3-2019)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Cemeteries
5-1-2: Smoke Emissions
5-1-3: Dangerous Acts
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-1: CEMETERIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish a
cemetery within the village limits or within one and one-half (11/2) miles
thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to bury any
person within the village limits or within one and one-half (11/2) miles
thereof except in an established cemetery. (1966 Code § 14.306; amd. 2003 Code)
5-1-2: SMOKE EMISSIONS:
   A.   Emissions Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the
emission of dense smoke from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or any other
agent in the village so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residents
thereof.
   B.   Grading Smoke Density: For the purpose of testing and grading the
density of smoke, the Ringelmann smoke chart, as published and used by the
United States geological survey, shall be and is hereby adopted as a standard
for such grading, and smoke shall be, and is hereby defined as and declared to
be "dense" when it is of a degree of number three (3) of said chart, or
greater, for more than six (6) minutes in any one hour; whether such period of
time is consecutive or not. (1966 Code § 14.313)
5-1-3: DANGEROUS ACTS:
It shall be unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public health
or results in annoyance or discomfort to the public. (1966 Code § 14.308)
5-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each and every day during or on which a violation occurs or is
permitted to continue. (1966 Code § 14.314; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Nuisances Prohibited
5-2-2: Nuisances Enumerated
5-2-3: Abatement Procedures
5-2-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the existence of any
nuisance on any property under his control. (2003 Code)
5-2-2: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
person, within the territorial limits of the village, are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances: Any act or offense which is a nuisance according
to the common law of the state, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the village. In addition, the officials of the village shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within
this chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable, or unlawful use
by a person of property, real or personal, or from his own improper, indecent
or unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort, or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   B.   Animal Carcasses; Offal:
      1.   To cause the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or noisome
substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under his
ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
      2.   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street or public highway.
   C.   Polluting Water: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   D.   Stagnant Water: To permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any
premises to the prejudice of others.
   E.   Garbage Accumulation; Putrid Or Offensive Conditions: To deposit or
permit to remain upon any premises, or public street or alley, slops or animal
or vegetable matter of any kind which is or is likely to become putrid or
offensive.
   F.   Obstructing Public Ways: To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying
places.
   G.   Offensive Businesses: To erect, continue or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals, or of the public.
   H.   Unauthorized Advertisements: To advertise wares or occupation by
painting notices of the same on 1 , or affixing them to, fences, walls,
windows, building exteriors, utility poles, or on hydrants, other public or
private property, or on rocks or other natural objects, without the consent of
the owner, or if in the highway or other public place, without permission of
the proper authorities.
   I.   Dumping And/Or Burning Ashes, Junk Vehicles, Miscellaneous Waste 2 : To
dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property or right of
way, highway, park, or street ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or
parts thereof, or miscellaneous waste.
   J.   Junk Storage: To store, keep, or maintain outside of a closed building,
any junk; refuse; used appliances; used or dilapidated furniture; bathroom
fixtures; tires; old iron or metal; used lumber, bricks, blocks or other
building salvage materials; parts; and machinery or equipment not in an
operable condition, where such matter is an actual danger or detriment to life,
safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the property of surrounding property
owners; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a properly
licensed junkyard or other permitted outdoor storage use which is in full
compliance with all of the ordinances of the village governing the same.
   K.   Dangerous Buildings 3 : To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit
for human habitation, or dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health
because of lack of repair, defects in the plumbing system, lighting or
ventilation, the existence of contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions
likely to cause sickness among persons residing in said premises or residing in
proximity thereof.
   L.   Animals:
      1.   Animal Pests: To store or place any materials in a manner which may
harbor mosquitoes, flies, insects, rodents, nuisance birds, or other animal
pests that are offensive, injurious, or dangerous to the health of individuals
or the public.
      2.   Offensive Animal Houses: To suffer or permit any premises where any
animal is kept to become nauseous, foul or offensive to any person, family or
neighborhood.
      3.   Noisy, Offensive Animals 4 : To keep any animal, bird or fowl,
including pets of any kind, which causes frequent or long-continued noise or
which creates offensive odor or unsightly appearance of surroundings, or which
disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
   M.   Noisy, Offensive Conditions 5 :
      1.   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any loud, excessive, frequent, continuous or offensive noise to the
disturbance of the peace and quiet of any person residing in the vicinity.
      2.   To use, operate, or permit to be played, used or operated any radio
or television receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine
or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring inhabitants or at any time
with louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person who
is in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine or device is operated
and who is a voluntary listener thereto. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-10-8B2c of this code.
2 2. See also title 7, chapter 3 and subsection
  8-1-10D of this code.
3 3. See also title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
4 1. See also subsection
  6-2-3A9 of this code.
5 2. See also chapter 6 of this title.
5-2-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
The appropriate village official is hereby given power to abate any such
nuisance that may be found in the village in the following manner:
   A.   Notice To Abate; Summary Abatement: The appropriate village official
shall give the owner of the premises on which a nuisance exists or the
individual responsible for a nuisance seventy two (72) hours to abate the
nuisance. If the owner or the individual responsible for the nuisance fails to
abate the nuisance, the appropriate village official or employee is hereby
empowered to go onto said premises for the purpose of abating the nuisance.
   B.   Liability For Costs: The owner of the premises or individual
responsible for the nuisance is hereby made liable for cost of the abatement of
said nuisance. The appropriate village official shall submit to the owner or
the individual responsible for the nuisance a statement of the costs incurred
in abating the nuisance.
   C.   Suit To Collect Costs: If the owner or the individual responsible for
the nuisance fails or neglects to pay the village abatement costs, suit shall
be instituted against the owner or individual responsible in the name of the
village and against the owner or individual responsible in any court of
competent jurisdiction to recover the costs of abating the nuisance, together
with the costs of such suit. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Unlawful Deposits
5-3-4: Combustible Refuse; Littering
5-3-5: Container Requirements; Separation Of Garbage And Refuse
5-3-6: Garbage Collection
5-3-7: Penalty
5-3-1: PURPOSE:
In order to comply with present statutory law and administrative rules and
regulations concerning procedures and methods for the collection and disposal
of garbage and refuse, which requirements the village council recognizes as
necessary and desirable for the protection of the public health and welfare,
the village council does hereby establish the provisions of this chapter for
the collection, removal and disposal of garbage and refuse. (2003 Code)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context of this chapter specifically indicates otherwise, the
meanings of terms used herein shall be as follows:
GARBAGE: Includes all waste resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, dressing, cooking and consumption of food, including containers in
which food is purchased, stored or sold.
LICENSED CONTRACTOR: The person, firm or corporation with whom this village has
contracted for the collection and removal of garbage and refuse from residences
within the village, and nonresidents who, with village council approval,
request and receive garbage and refuse collecting by the village of Leland.
REFUSE: Includes ashes, wastepaper, boxes, old toys, appliances, furniture and
similar materials. The term "refuse" shall not include earth, sod, rocks,
concrete, or building materials from demolition or remodeling or construction,
which shall be collectively known as "demolition or construction debris".
RESIDENCE: A building or portion thereof designed or used predominantly for
residential occupancy, including one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and
multiple-family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses or tourist homes. Each unit in a condominium or townhouse shall
be considered as a separate residential unit. Each unit in a government
subsidized senior citizen or low income complex shall be considered a separate
residential unit.
WASTE: Any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution facility or other discarded material, including solid,
liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from industrial,
commercial, mining and agricultural operations and from community activities,
but does not include solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section
402 of the federal water pollution control act as now or hereinafter amended,
or source, special nuclear, or byproduct materials as defined by the atomic
energy act of 1954, as amended, or any solid or dissolved material from any
facility subject to the federal surface mining control and reclamation act of
1977 or the rules and regulations thereunder, or any law or rule or regulation
adopted by the state of Illinois pursuant thereto. (2003 Code)
5-3-3: UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
deposit or permit to be deposited anywhere within the village any pile of
garbage, refuse, demolition or construction debris, or major portions of trees,
other than in compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Refuse On Village Property 1 : It is unlawful for anyone to dump or
dispose of refuse on village property in the village.
   C.   Lawn Waste On Village Streets Or In Storm Sewers: It is unlawful for
any person to deposit any lawn leaves or grass clippings in the village streets
or storm sewers located within the village. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 6-3-3-2 and
  8-1-6 of this code.
5-3-4: COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE; LITTERING 1 :
It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way as
to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any
alley, street or other public place in the village. (1966 Code § 19.011)
 
Notes
1 2. See also chapter 4 of this title.
5-3-5: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS; SEPARATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Residences: Every owner or his agent or the occupant of any premises
shall provide and maintain in good order and repair a rodentproof garbage
container or containers of not less than five (5) nor more than thirty (30)
gallons' capacity with a tight cover and suitable handles for the deposit of
garbage. Items of refuse placed for collection shall be bagged or otherwise
contained. The licensed contractor shall not be required to handle or empty
perishable, nonstandard containers.
   B.   Businesses: Every owner or his agent or the occupant of any place of
business wherein food is prepared or served or sold for human consumption shall
provide and maintain in good order and repair containers of sufficient size and
quantity for the storage of garbage and refuse. No owner or agent or occupant
of any such place of business shall permit garbage and refuse to collect upon
said premises for more than three (3) days; provided, however, that the placing
of a contract for removal of garbage and refuse with a licensed contractor
shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with the requirements of this
subsection. (2003 Code)
5-3-6: GARBAGE COLLECTION:
   A.   Contract For Collection:
      1.   The village council may from time to time grant by contract,
franchise or otherwise the right to any person, firm or corporation to collect
and remove garbage and refuse in the village from the residences thereof on an
exclusive basis or on any other reasonable basis that it may deem appropriate.
      2.   No person, firm or corporation shall collect and remove garbage and
refuse within the village without having first been granted the right so to do
by the village council.
   B.   Collection Rules And Regulations: The village council shall provide
rules and regulations for the collection and removal of garbage and refuse as
it deems necessary.
   C.   Collection Rates: Commencing January 1, 2018, rates for residential
garbage removal service in the village of Leland shall be as follows:
      1.   For each dwelling unit occupied by no more than one person or entire
household age 65 or older, sixty-three dollars ($63.00) per quarter;
      2.   For each dwelling unit occupied by more than one person, eighty-
seven dollars ($87.00) per quarter. (2003 Code; amd. Ord. 04-13, 10-1-2013;
Ord. 07-17, 8-1-2017; Ord. 22-01, 4-5-2022; Ord. --, 1-7-2025)
5-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1966 Code §§ 14.204, 19.032; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 4
LITTER CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definition
5-4-2: Litter Deposits
5-4-3: Throwing Litter From Vehicles
5-4-4: Accumulation Of Litter
5-4-5: Parental Liability
5-4-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-3-4 of this title.
5-4-1: DEFINITION:
"Litter" is any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste. "Litter" may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass, clippings, or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging, construction material,
abandoned vehicle 1 , motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to
injure any person or create a traffic hazard; or anything else of an unsightly
or unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise
disposed of improperly. (Ord. 16-97, 9-2-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. See also title 7, chapter 3 of this code.
5-4-2: LITTER DEPOSITS:
No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or permit
the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of litter
upon any public or private property in the village, unless:
   A.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended by
the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter.
   B.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant
and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, or a
fire hazard. (Ord. 16-97, 9-2-1997)
5-4-3: THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES:
   A.   Throwing From Vehicle Prohibited: No person shall dump, deposit, drop,
throw, discard, or otherwise dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any
public highway or upon any public or private property in the village.
   B.   Presumption Of Violation: Whenever litter is thrown, deposited,
dropped, or dumped from any motor vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the
presumption is created that the operator of that motor vehicle has violated
this section, but that presumption may be rebutted. (Ord. 16-97, 9-2-1997)
5-4-4: ACCUMULATION OF LITTER:
No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person. (Ord. 16-97, 9-2-1997)
5-4-5: PARENTAL LIABILITY:
A parent or guardian of an unemancipated minor (meaning a person who is above
the age of 11 but not yet 18 years of age) who resides with such parent shall
be liable for such child's wilful violation of this chapter. (Ord. 16-97, 9-2-
1997; amd. 2003 Code)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
With the exception of section
5-4-5, any person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 16-97, 9-2-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PLANTS, WEEDS AND GRASS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Weeds Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
5-5-2: Height Restriction
5-5-3: Barberry Prohibited
5-5-4: Notice To Abate
5-5-5: Abatement By Village; Costs
5-5-6: Penalty
5-5-1: WEEDS PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr, or other
weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village
are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any
such weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (Ord. 06-12, 7-3-2012)
5-5-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height
exceeding six inches (6") anywhere in the village. Any such plants, weeds or
grass exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 06-12,
7-3-2012)
5-5-3: BARBERRY PROHIBITED:
It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the bush
of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further known as Berberis
vulgaris or its horticultural varieties within the village. (Ord. 06-12, 7-3-
2012)
5-5-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds, plants or
grass are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter, and
to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. (Ord. 06-12, 7-3-
2012)
5-5-5: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
   A.   Abatement By Village; Costs To Owner: If the person so served does not
abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the council may proceed to abate such
nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement, including
reasonable legal fees and recording costs, and such expense shall be charged to
and paid by such owner or occupant.
   B.   Costs A Lien; Release Of Lien:
      1.   Charges for such weed, plant or grass removal including reasonable
legal fees and recording costs shall be a lien upon the premises.
      2.   Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered, the clerk may file with the county recorder a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, and the date the weeds, plants
or grass were cut, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
      3.   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a
description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof; b) the
amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service; and c) the date or dates when such cost and expense were incurred by
the village. However, the lien of the village shall not be valid as to any
purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to the
weeds, plants or grass cutting and prior to the filing such notice, and the
lien of the village shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor
or other lienor whose rights in and to such real estate arose prior to the
filing of such notice.
      4.   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
      5.   The cost of the cutting of weeds, plants or grass and reasonable
legal fees and recording costs shall not be a lien on the real estate affected
unless a notice is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the
person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for
the last preceding year. The notice shall be delivered or sent after the
cutting of weeds, plants or grass on the property. The notice shall state the
substance of this subsection and the substance of any ordinance of the village
implementing this subsection and shall identify the property, by common
description, and the location of the weeds, plants or grass to be cut.
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien:
      1.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed, plant or grass cutting
charges including reasonable attorney fees and recording costs shall be sold
for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to
pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the
village.
      2.   The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid
sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 06-12, 7-3-2012)
5-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which such nuisance continues unabated after
ten (10) days from receipt of notice. (Ord. 06-12, 7-3-2012)
CHAPTER 6
NOISE CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-6-1: Sound Amplifiers
5-6-2: Whistles
5-6-3: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2-2M of this title.
5-6-1: SOUND AMPLIFIERS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any
loudspeaker or amplifier connected with any radio, phonograph, microphone or
other sound producing device on any public street or public place in the
village without having first obtained a license therefor. (1966 Code § 18.901;
amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Application For License: Any person, firm or corporation desiring a
license for the use or operation of such a device shall file an application
therefor with the village clerk upon a form provided by him, setting forth the
name and address of the applicant, the name and address of the owner of such
device, the date upon which it is intended to be used, and such other
information as may be prescribed. (1966 Code § 18.903)
   C.   License Fee: The fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day. (1966 Code § 18.902; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Issuance Of License; Conditions: The license shall issue upon the
payment of the license fee, as provided herein, to the village clerk and shall
permit the use of any such device subject to the terms and conditions of this
section, only upon the date specified on such license and no other. (1966 Code
§ 18.904)
   E.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   Days And Hours Of Use: No licensee shall use, operate or employ any
such device within the village limits on Sunday or after the hour of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M., prevailing time, of any day, or before the hour of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M., prevailing time, of any day, other than under a special
permit. (1966 Code § 18.905; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Location: No licensee shall use, operate or employ any such device
within a radius of two (2) blocks from any hospital or within the radius of two
(2) blocks from any church or other place of public worship while services are
being held there.
      3.   Exemptions: This subsection shall not apply to radios in homes or in
private pleasure vehicles, when the same are operated in such a manner as not
to be audible at a distance of fifty feet (50') from such vehicle, nor to noise
devices, bands, or other musical devices used in any public parade or
procession which is operated under a permit in accordance with the ordinances
of the village 1 .
F. Prohibited Language And Sounds: No person shall cause or permit to be
emanated or emitted from any such device any lewd, obscene, profane or indecent
language or sounds, or any false representation of any matter, product or
project advertised thereby, the sale of which is prohibited by law, ordinance
or statute. (1966 Code § 18.905)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 5 of this code.
5-6-2: WHISTLES:
It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be blown or sounded any steam whistle
of any stationary or steam engine except as a signal for starting or stopping
work or in emergencies to avoid injury to persons or property. (1966 Code §
19.024)
5-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1966 Code §§ 18.906, 19.032; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 7
OPEN BURNING 1
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Restricted Burning
5-7-3: Permitted Burning
5-7-4: Village Employees And Firefighters Exempt
5-7-5: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections
  5-2-2I and 8-1-10D of this code.
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
All terms which appear in this chapter have the definitions specified in this
section:
AGRICULTURAL WASTES: Any refuse except garbage and dead animals generated on a
farm by crop and livestock production practices including such items as bags,
cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues, but excluding
landscape wastes.
GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food or food products.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and agricultural
waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products of
the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9(b) of the
environmental protection act of the state of Illinois 1 .
REFUSE: Any discarded matter, or any matter which is to be reduced in volume or
otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to facilitate
its discard, removal or disposal.
RESIDENTIAL WASTE: Any refuse generated on single-family or multi-family
residential property as a result of residential activities. The term excludes
"landscape waste", "garbage" and "trade waste".
TRADE WASTE: Any refuse resulting from the operation of any trade, business,
industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any governmental
or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term includes
"landscape waste" but excludes "agricultural waste". (Ord. 17-95, 9-5-1995)
 
Notes
1 2. 415 ILCS 5/9(b).
5-7-2: RESTRICTED BURNING:
   A.   Open Burning: No person shall cause or allow open burning of
agricultural, residential, landscape or trade waste, garbage or any other
refuse, except as provided herein.
   B.   Container Burning: No person shall cause or allow the burning of any
refuse in any apparatus, unless such apparatus is designed for the purpose of
disposing of the class of refuse being burned. (Ord. 17-95, 9-5-1995)
5-7-3: PERMITTED BURNING:
The following activities are not in violation of this chapter:
   A.   Landscape Waste: The open burning of landscape waste shall be allowed
in the village; provided, that the following requirements are met:
      1.   Burning shall take place only on the premises on which said waste is
generated and not upon any village streets, alleys, or rights of way.
      2.   The burning shall be located no closer than twenty feet (20') from
any building, structure, tree, brush, or shrub.
      3.   The burning shall at all times be attended by a responsible
individual and kept under appropriate control. (Ord. 17-95, 9-5-1995)
      4.   The burning shall take place only between the hours of four o'clock
(4:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, and from
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon through six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Saturday and
Sunday, subject to the condition that no burning be conducted when wind,
drought, or atmospheric condition creates a potential fire hazard or nuisance
or creates a visibility hazard on roadways, railroad tracks or air fields.
(Ord. 17-95, 9-5-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
      5.   The mayor may from time to time declare the existence of a period of
drought conditions during which all burning of landscape waste shall be
prohibited. The prohibition against the burning of landscape waste during
drought conditions shall commence twenty four (24) hours after the declaration
thereof by the mayor and shall terminate upon the declaration by the mayor that
such drought conditions cease to exist.
   B.   Cooking And Recreation: Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prohibit the use of wood or charcoal in stoves or other apparatus used for
cooking or for recreation. (Ord. 17-95, 9-5-1995)
5-7-4: VILLAGE EMPLOYEES AND FIREFIGHTERS EXEMPT:
The village, its agents and employees and the Leland fire protection district
and volunteer fire department and its agents and employees, while acting in the
course of such agency or employment, shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 17-95, 9-5-1995)
5-7-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, refuses to comply with, or resists the
enforcement of any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each occurrence in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 17-
95, 9-5-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
5-8-1: Fireworks
5-8-2: Storage Of Explosives
5-8-3: Fuel Tanks
5-8-4: Penalty
5-8-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Storage Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to store any fireworks in
the village except as may be necessary for the performance of a licensed public
exhibition of pyrotechnics, as hereinafter provided. Any such storage must be
under the supervision of and subject to the approval of the commissioner of
public health and safety.
   B.   Sales Of Fireworks: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any
fireworks or pyrotechnics in the village; provided, that public exhibitions of
fireworks and pyrotechnics may be given if a permit therefor be granted by the
council. Such exhibitions shall be given subject to the supervision of the
commissioner of public health and safety, or of some person designated by him.
(1966 Code § 18.401)
5-8-2: STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES:
All explosives kept or stored in the village shall be kept and stored in
accordance with the rules enforced by the state fire marshal, with regard
thereto. (1966 Code § 18.405)
5-8-3: FUEL TANKS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to install or maintain any fuel oil, gas or liquid gas
tanks in the village unless such tank and all equipment connected therewith is
installed and maintained in accordance with the rules of the state fire
marshal, or of any other state agency having jurisdiction thereof. (1966 Code §
19.027)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-10-4C of this code.
5-8-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1966 Code §§ 18.406, 19.032; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 9
RENTAL HOUSING NUISANCE AND CRIME-FREE LEASES
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Procedures for Addressing Potential Nuisance Property
5-9-3: Defenses
5-9-4: Penalties
5-9-5: Crime-Free Lease And Enforcement
5-9-6: Exceptions
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
CHIEF LAW
ENFORCEMENT The Chief of the Police Department of the Village or his/her designee.
OFFICER:
NUISANCE    Any activities described in subsections A. through O. of the definition of
ACTIVITY:   Potential Nuisance Property.
            A potential nuisance property that has been adjudicated pursuant to Section
NUISANCE    5-9-2 and declared to be a nuisance property and a penalty has been imposed by
PROPERTY:   the court pursuant to Section
            5-9-4.
OWNER:      Any person having any legal or equitable interest to title in the property in
            question.
            Any natural person, partnership, limited partnership, corporation, limited
PERSON:     liability company, or other entity organized under the laws of any state or the
            United States.
            Property upon which three (3) or more instances of any one or any combination of
            the activities listed below have occurred during any one hundred and twenty (120)
            day period as a result of any three (3) separate factual events that have been
            independently investigated by any law enforcement agency that have resulted in an
            arrest, issuance of a warrant for an arrest, issuance of a ticket or citation or
            the filingof a police report.
            A.   Disorderly conduct as defined in 720 ILCS 5/26-1.
            B.   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1.
            C.   Mob action as defined in 720 ILCS 5/25-1.
            D.   Aggravated discharge or a firearm as defined in 720 ILCS 5/24-1.2 and 720
            ILCS 24-1.2-5.
            E.   Gambling as defined in 720 ILCS 5/28-1.
            F.   Possession, manufacture or delivery of a controlled substance as defined in
POTENTIAL   720 ILCS 570/401.
NUISANCE    G.   Assault or battery or any related offense as defined in 720 ILCS 5/12.1 et
PROPERTY:   seq.
            H.   Criminal sexual abuse or related offenses as defined in 7250 ILCS 5/12-15 et
            seq.
            I.   Public indecency as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-9.
            J.   Prostitution as defined in 720 ILCS 5/11-14 et seq.
            K.   Criminal damage to property as defined in 720 ILCS 5/21-1 et seq.
            L.   Possession, cultivation, manufacture, or delivery of cannabis as defined in
            720 ILCS 550/1 et. seq.
            M.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol as defined in the 235 ILCS 5/1-
            3.01 et seq.
            N.   Violation of any Village ordinance or State of Illinois statute controlling
            or regulating the sale or use of alcoholic beverages.
            O.   Conduct of any other activity deemed to be a nuisance pursuant to the Leland
            Village code.
PERMITTED:  To knowingly suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce or expressly assent or agree to
            the doing of an act.
            Any real property and fixtures thereof leased for residential purposes or any
PROPERTY:   part or portion thereof whether under an oral or written agreement. (Ord. 23-01,
            5-2-2023)
 
5-9-2: PROCEDURE FOR ADDRESSING POTENTIAL NUISANCE PROPERTY:
   A.   After independent review of any police reports and determination by the
chief law enforcement office, that the activity described therein as occurring
upon the property meets the definition of nuisance activity and that the owner
permitted the property to become a potential nuisance property, the chief law
enforcement officer may require that the owner thereof or his or her or its
property manager or other designee meet with the chief law enforcement officer
to discuss the nuisance activity and steps the owner can take to mitigate or
abate the activity in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   The chief law enforcement officer shall notify the owner and any
local property manager, agent or employee of the owner known to the chief law
enforcement officer in writing that the property is a potential nuisance
property. Such notice shall be provided by either personal delivery or by first
class mail. addressed to the owner and any local property manager, agent or
employee of the owner known to the chief law enforcement officer that is
responsible for the property. The chief law enforcement officer shall also send
notice by first class mail to the tenant at the address of the property. The
notice shall contain the following information.
         a.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the potential nuisance property.
         b.   A statement that the chief law enforcement officer has
information that the property constitutes a potential nuisance property as
defined by this chapter, with a concise description of the nuisance activity
that may exist, or that has occurred that the chief law enforcement officer
believes classifies the property as a potential nuisance property.
         c.   Demand that the owner or his or her or its property manager or
other designee respond and meet with the chief law enforcement within twenty
(20) days of personal delivery or receipt of the notice to discuss the nuisance
activity. Refusal of receipt of the notice by the owner shall be deemed receipt
of the notice for purposes of this section.
      2.   At the meeting between the chief law enforcement officer and the
owner or his or her or its property manager or other designee, the chief law
enforcement officer may request that the owner or his or her or its property
manager or other designee implement a reasonable abatement plan designed to
alleviate and prevent future occurrences of the nuisance activity upon the
property. The mitigation or abatement plan may include, but is not limited to,
a review of the property’s access and security, lighting, access to common
areas, graffiti removal, the posting of “
If the nuisance activity complained of has or is being conducted by a tenant
residing in or on the property, the chief law enforcement officer may request
that the owner evict the tenant. If eviction is requested, the owner shall
proceed with such an action in good faith. The Village shall assist in the
eviction action by reasonably cooperating with the owner, including, but not
limited to, providing law enforcement officers or other municipal employees as
witnesses regarding the nuisance activity if relevant.
   B.   If after complying with the procedures of subsection A.2. of this
section:
      1.   Between ninety (90) and three hundred and sixty-five (365) days
after the meeting, the chief law enforcement officer receives a report
documenting the occurrence of a subsequent instance of nuisance activity upon
the property;
      2.   The owner, within sixty (60) days of the meeting or such other
reasonable amount of time under the circumstances, fails to cause the
implementation of a reasonable mitigation or abatement plan as requested by the
chief law enforcement officer; or
      3.   The owner fails to respond and meet with the chief law enforcement
officer within the twenty (20)-day period without good cause, then the Village
may issue a citation for a violation of this chapter to be heard and
adjudicated before the Village’s administrative hearing officer or in a court
of competent jurisdiction. The Village may in its discretion seek to enforce
this chapter for a nuisance violation and appropriate equitable relief in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   When an owner or his or her or its property manager or other designee
responds and meets with the chief law enforcement officer as required above, no
statements made in connection with the furnishing of that response or in a
meeting shall constitute or be used as an admission that any nuisance activity
has or is occurring. This subsection C. does not require the exclusion of any
other evidence which is otherwise admissible and offered for any other purpose
than an admission by the owner or his or her or its property manager or other
designee. (Ord. 23-01, 5-2-2023)
5-9-3: DEFENSES:
It is a defense to an action seeking the declaration or the property as a
nuisance property that the owner or the property at the time in question could
not, in the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that nuisance
activity was occurring upon the property, or could not, in spite of the
exercise of reasonable care and diligence, prevent a third party from engaging
in the conduct constituting the nuisance activity complained of by the
municipality. It shall abo be a defense for an owner, if prior to the Owner
being served notice of enforcement proceedings, the Owner or his or her or its
property manager or other designee, notified a law enforcement agency or
suspected illegal activity and has started the eviction process against any
tenant or occupant responsible for the nuisance activity complained of. It
shall also be a defense if an owner has made a good faith effort to implement
the reasonable mitigation or abatement plan requested by the chief law
enforcement officer, pursuant to clause A.2. of Section
5-9-2, but the nuisance activity has not been mitigated or abated. It shall
also be a defense if an owner, in trying to mitigate or abate the nuisance
activity prosecuted an eviction action against the tenant but the eviction was
denied by a court. (Ord. 23-01, 5-2-2023)
5-9-4: PENALTIES:
Upon a finding that the property is a nuisance property as defined by this
chapter, the owner shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each day the violation has existed following the applicable dates set forth
in subparagraphs B.1. through B.3. of Section
5-9-2.
Upon a determination of a violation of this chapter, a court may, in addition
to imposing a fine, enter an injunction requiring abatement of the nuisance
activity or an injunction prohibiting the occupancy of the property for a
period of up to six (6) months, or in the case of a multi-unit property, any
unit thereof in question for a period of up to six (6) months. (Ord. 23-01, 5-
2-2023)
5-9-5: CRIME-FREE LEASE AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   If any lessee or occupant, on one or more occasions, uses or permits
the use of leased premises within the Village for the commission of any act
that would constitute a felony or a Class A misdemeanor under the laws of this
State, the lease or rental agreement shall, at the option of the lessor or the
lessor's assignee, become void, and the owner or lessor shall be entitled to
recover possession of the leased premises as against a tenant holding over
after the expiration of his or her term. A written lease shall notify the
lessee that if any lessee or occupant, on one or more occasions, use or permits
the use or the leased premises for the commission of a felony or Class A
misdemeanor under the laws of this State, the lessor shall have the right to
void the lease and recover the leased premises. Failure to include this
language in a written lease or the use or an oral lease shall not waive or
impair the rights of the lessor or lessor's assignee under this section or the
lease.
   B.   Upon the request of an owner or lessor in writing, the corporation
counsel of the village may bring a forcible entry and detainer action on behalf
or the owner or lessor against the lessee and all occupants of the leased
premises in violation of this section. (Ord. 23-01, 5-2-2023)
5-9-6: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter, no
tenant or landlord shall be penalized based on the tenant, occupant or guest
making or permitting the following call for police or emergency services:
      1.   Calls for police or emergency services intended to prevent or
respond to domestic violence or sexual violence in or about the rental
premises.
      2.   Calls for police or emergency service call needed to prevent or
respond to incidents of actual or threatened domestic or sexual violence in or
about the rental premises.
      3.   Calls for police or emergency calls if contact was made by, on
behalf of, or otherwise concerning any individual with a disability, where the
purpose of the contact was related to that individual’s disability.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Chapter, no
tenant or landlord shall be subject to any penalty based on an incident of
actual or threatened domestic violence or sexual violence against a tenant,
household member or a guest occurring in or about the rental premises.
   C.   The exceptions set forth in subsections
5-9-6 A. and B. of this chapter are not applicable to the actual perpetrators
of domes violence or sexual violence occurring in the dwelling unit or on the
premises who shall be subject to penalty under this chapter. Including, but not
limited to eviction. (Ord. 23-01, 5-2-2023)
CHAPTER 10
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-10-1:    Declaration Of Policy
5-10-2:    Definitions
5-10-3:    Prohibited Acts
5-10-4:    Penalty
5-10-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State of Illinois as expressed in its
Constitution and other Laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the Village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the Village of Leland, Illinois, to assure equal
opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap to live in
decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the Village of Leland that no owner, lessee, sub-
lessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having
the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the Village, or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap of such person or persons or discriminate against any person or
persons because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or physical or mental handicap in the conditions, terms, privileges of
the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation and/or real property or
in the furnishing of facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 23-03,
11-7-2023)
5-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning ascribed in this section and as used in this
chapter.
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: “Decent, sanitary,
healthful standard living quarters” is housing which is in sound, clean, and
weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local, state, and
national codes.
DISCRIMINATE: The terms “discriminate” or “discrimination” mean any difference
expressed in any way toward a person or persons in the terms of the sale,
exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing accommodation and/or real
property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or
mental handicap of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: The term “financial institution” means any person,
institution or business entity of any kind which loans money to persons and
receives as security for said loans a secured interest of any kind in the real
property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: The term “housing accommodation” includes any building,
structure, or portion thereof which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged
or designed to be used or occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of
one or more human beings, or any real estate so used, designed or intended for
such use.
OWNER: An “owner” means any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title
to, or owns any beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or
equitable title to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real
estate cooperative which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: The term “real estate broker” means any person,
partnership, association, corporation and/or agent thereof, who for a fee or
other valuable consideration offers, sells, purchases, exchanges or rents, or
negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange or rental of a housing
accommodation and/or real property of another, or collects rental for the use
of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another.
REAL PROPERTY: The term “real property” means any real estate, vacant land,
building, structure or housing accommodations within the corporate limits of
the Village of Leland, Illinois. (Ord. 23-03, 11-7-2023)
5-10-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental
handicap with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the Village of Leland, Illinois:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
Village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or physical or mental handicap of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
physical or mental handicap in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental handicap.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical or mental handicap of the
proposed buyer or tenant. (Ord. 23-03, 11-7-2023)
5-10-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. This Section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the Village of Leland, Illinois, to specifically enforce,
by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 23-03, 11-7-
2023)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Composition
6-1-2: Chief Of Police
6-1-3: Duties Of Department Members
6-1-4: Serving Processes
6-1-5: Conduct Of Members
6-1-6: Serve As Witness
6-1-7: Rules And Regulations
6-1-8: Conservators Of The Peace
6-1-9: Auxiliary Police Officers
6-1-10: Part Time Police Officers
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a police department, an executive department of the
village. The police department shall consist of the chief of police and of such
other members as may be provided from time to time by the village council.
(1966 Code § 3.001; amd. 2003 Code)
6-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
chief of police who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the village council. (1966 Code § 3.002; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   Generally: The chief shall be responsible for the performance of the
police department, in all of its functions, and all persons who are members of
the department shall serve subject to the orders of the chief of police.
      2.   Records And Reports: The chief of police shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of his department as may be
required by statute or by the village council. (1966 Code § 3.003)
      3.   Stolen Property: The chief of police shall be the custodian of all
lost and abandoned or stolen property in the village. (1966 Code § 3.010)
6-1-3: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the village and all statutes applicable
herein, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law, and arrest
violators thereof. (1966 Code § 3.004)
6-1-4: SERVING PROCESSES:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to serve writs, summonses or other
processes, but no other police officer shall serve any such writ, summons or
process except upon order of the chief of police or the mayor. (1966 Code §
3.005)
6-1-5: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every member of the police department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the department shall obey
the orders and directions of his superior. (1966 Code § 3.006)
6-1-6: SERVE AS WITNESS:
Any member of the police department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
to any action or suit to which the village is a party, and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the chief of police, who shall deposit the
same with the village treasurer. (1966 Code § 3.007)
6-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The chief of police may make and prescribe such rules and regulations for the
hours of duty, vacations, uniforms and conduct of the members of the police
department as he shall deem advisable, and such rules, when approved by the
village council, shall be binding on such members. (1966 Code § 3.008)
6-1-8: CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE:
Every full time and part time member of the police department is hereby
declared to be a conservator of the peace after receiving a certificate
attesting to the successful completion of a training course administered by the
Illinois law enforcement training and standards board and such full and part
time members of the police department shall have the power to arrest or cause
to be arrested, with or without process, all persons who break the peace or are
found violating any municipal ordinance, or criminal law of the state of
Illinois; to commit arrested persons for examination; if necessary, to detain
arrested persons in custody overnight or Saturday or Sunday in any safe place
until they can be brought before the proper court; and to exercise all other
powers as conservators of the peace prescribed by corporate authorities; and
for such other powers as granted conservators of the peace by statute.
Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular police department
and shall not be conservators of the peace. (Ord. 01-13, 2-5-2013)
6-1-9: AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   The mayor by and with the advice and consent of the village council may
from time to time appoint such auxiliary police officers in such number as the
council sees fit.
   B.   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular police
department of the municipality. Auxiliary police officers shall not supplement
members of the regular police department of the municipality in the performance
of their assigned and normal duties, except as otherwise provided in this code.
Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the following
duties in the municipality: 1) to aid or direct traffic within the
municipality, 2) to aid in control of natural or manmade disasters, and 3) to
aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the chief of police. When it is
impractical for members of the regular police department to perform those
normal and regular police duties, however, the chief of police of the regular
police department may assign auxiliary police officers to perform those normal
and regular police duties. Identification symbols worn by auxiliary police
officers shall be different and distinct from those used by members of the
regular police department. Auxiliary police officers shall at all times during
the performance of their duties be subject to the direction and control of the
chief of police of the municipality. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry
firearms, except with the permission of the chief of police and while in
uniform and in the performance of their duties. Auxiliary police officers in
the village of Leland shall not be considered conservators of the peace as
specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25 unless such auxiliary
police officer has received a certificate attesting to the successful
completion of all required training courses mandated and administered by the
Illinois law enforcement training standards board. Auxiliary police officers
are not required to be residents of the municipality, but shall only be
considered for appointment after first meeting the following minimum
qualifications:
      1.   Be no younger than twenty one (21) years of age at the time of
appointment.
      2.   Have earned a high school diploma, or equivalent.
      3.   Be a United States citizen.
      4.   Possess a valid driver's license.
      5.   Be of good moral character.
      6.   Have not been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or any state
or federal statute prohibiting appointment in the designated capacity.
      7.   Any other requirements as set forth in the general orders, policies,
or directives of the Leland police department.
   C.   Auxiliary police officers, before entering upon any of their duties,
shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police
procedures appropriate for the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under
this code. The training and course of study shall be determined and provided by
the village council. Before being permitted to carry a firearm, however, an
auxiliary police officer must have the same course of training as required of
peace officers under section 2 of the peace officer firearm training act, 50
Illinois Compiled Statutes 710/0.01 et seq. Before the appointment of an
auxiliary police officer the person's fingerprints shall be taken and a
background investigation as outlined in the Leland police general orders shall
be conducted; no person shall be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if
that person has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude.
   D.   The line of duty compensation act 1  shall be applicable to auxiliary
police officers upon their death in the line of duty described in this code.
(Ord. 02-12, 1-3-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 315/1 et seq.
6-1-10: PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Employment: The village of Leland may employ part time police officers
from time to time as deemed necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Leland police department, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time police
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall not be used as permanent replacements
for permanent full time police officers. Part time police officers shall be
trained under the intergovernmental law enforcement officer's in-service
training act 1  in accordance with the Illinois police training act 3 and the
rules and requirements of the Illinois law enforcement training and standards
board.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment and may be removed by the village authorities at any time. Part
time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general orders
issued by the Leland police department. (Ord. 01-15, 3-3-2015)
 
Notes
1 2. 50 ILCS 720/1 et seq.
3 3. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: General Provisions
6-2-3: Control Of Animals
6-2-4: Animal Bites
6-2-5: Impoundment And Redemption Of Animals
6-2-6: Dog License Requirements
6-2-7: Rabies Inoculations
6-2-8: Estrus (Heat)
6-2-9: Diseased Animals
6-2-10: Disposition Of Dead Animals
6-2-11: Violations; Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ANIMAL: Any live vertebrate creature except man.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER/WARDEN: Any employee of the village designated by the
chief of police to exercise police powers in the enforcement of this chapter.
AUTHORIZED PERSON: Any member of the police department, animal control officer/
warden or any person under their supervision.
BITE: Seizure of a person or domestic animal with the jaws or teeth of any cat,
dog or other animal capable of transmitting rabies so that the person or
domestic animal so seized has been wounded or pierced and further includes
contact of the saliva of such cat, dog or other animal with any break or
abrasion of the skin.
CAT: All members of the feline family.
CONTROL: Any owned animal that is secured by one or more of the following:
   A.   A leash or lead no longer than six feet (6') in length.
   B.   An electrical or mechanical device designed to keep an animal confined
to the owner's property.
   C.   A fence, cage, crate or enclosure.
   D.   A vehicle.
DISEASED ANIMAL: Any animal affected with a disease contagious or infectious to
both humans and animals.
DOG: All members of the canine family.
ENCLOSURE: Any fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and to
confine a dog or other animal, designed with secure sides, top and bottom
adequate to prevent escape.
IMPOUNDMENT: The removal and taking into custody of animals pursuant to this
chapter.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than three
(3) dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age
are kept.
LEASH: Any restraint, cord, thong or chain not more than six feet (6') in
length, designed for the purpose of keeping the animal under control. The leash
must securely fasten to the collar or harness of the animal and must be of
sufficient strength to restrain the animal.
POUND: Any facility licensed by the Illinois department of agriculture and
approved by the chief of police for the purpose of enforcing this chapter and
used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals.
SHELTER: Any establishment where dogs, cats or other animals are received,
housed and distributed with or without charge.
STRAY ANIMAL: Any animal running at large in the public way or on private
property other than that of the owner or keeper of such animal.
VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   Any individual animal that, when unprovoked, inflicts bites and attacks
a human being or other animal either on public or private property.
   B.   Any individual animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise do any act that
might endanger the safety of human beings, domestic animals or any other
property of another, including, but not limited to, a disposition to mischief
or fierceness which might lead to attack to the foregoing.
   C.   Any individual animal which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation, whether in play, anger or outbreak of an untrained nature.
   D.   No animal shall be deemed vicious if it bites, attacks or menaces a
trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has
tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained animal for law
enforcement or guard duties.
VILLAGE: The village of Leland, LaSalle County, Illinois. (2003 Code)
6-2-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to:
   A.   Inhumanely beat, underfeed, overload or abandon any animal.
   B.   Fail to provide any animal with proper shelter, protection from weather
or veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
   C.   Own, keep, harbor or maintain within the village any breed of fowl that
are or will be used in the pursuit of and staging of cockfighting on any
premises.
   D.   Promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct or carry on any animal fight of a
similar nature, nor any simulated version of same that involves baiting or
inciting an animal toward intent to fight.
   E.   Hold a greased pig contest.
   F.   Keep animals in violation of the "Illinois humane care for animals act
1 " or the "Illinois animal welfare act 2 ".
   G.   Intentionally strike Canadian geese or other wildlife with a motor
vehicle. Geese and other wildlife shall have the right of way when crossing
streets within the village. Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle,
strikes an animal, shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be
possible, or shall immediately report such injury to the animal owner, if
known; or to the appropriate law enforcement agency; or to the local humane
society.
   H.   Torment, shoot at with slingshots, BB or pellet type guns or other
firearms, pelt with rocks or otherwise disturb any animals.
   I.   Give away or use any live animal as a prize for or as an inducement to
enter any contest, game, or other compensation or an inducement to enter a
place of amusement or offer such animal as an incentive to enter any business
agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
   J.   Bring or cause to have brought into the village, sell, offer for sale,
barter or display living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which
have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them an
artificial color, or give away as pets or sell, offer for sale, barter or give
away at no cost or as novelties or prizes. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to prohibit legitimate commerce in poultry for agricultural or food
purposes.
   K.   Poison or cause to be poisoned any domesticated animal. The only
exception will be by written permit from the Illinois department of agriculture
for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible to humans or other
animals and only when all other methods and means have been exhausted. Any
drugs used for euthanasia shall be by or under the direction of a licensed
veterinarian.
   L.   Take the nest or eggs or young of any bird that is protected by federal
or state law.
   M.   Keep or permit to be kept or display for exhibition purposes any wild
animal contrary to federal, state, and local laws or regulations.
   N.   Leave any animal unattended in a motor vehicle or enclosed trailer when
the outside temperature exceeds eighty six degrees Fahrenheit (86°F) (30°C) or
contain any animal in such manner that said animal does not have proper air
circulation while confined in a motor vehicle, trailer, kennel, dog house, or
any type of container or structure in which an animal may be confined.
   O.   Own any animal which is known to be infected with any disease
transmissible to other animals or man, including severe parasitism, unless such
animal shall be confined in such a manner as not to expose other animals or
man. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
6-2-3: CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful:
      1.   Consent Required: For the owner or any person who has in his custody
or control, any dog, cat, or other animal to enter upon the premises of another
within the village without the consent of the owners.
      2.   Public Body Of Water: To permit any animal, whether licensed or not,
to enter any public body of water, pond, fountain or stream.
      3.   Food Establishment: To permit any animal to enter any place where
food is stored, prepared, served or sold to the public, or any public building
or hall; provided however, that this section shall not apply to any visually
impaired or hearing impaired person using a trained guide dog, to veterinary
offices or hospitals, or to animal shows or exhibitions.
      4.   Trespass: To permit any animal to run uncontrolled or trespass on
private or public property.
      5.   Damage: To permit any animal to damage or destroy any property.
      6.   Vehicles: To permit any dog to chase, run after or jump at vehicles
using the public thoroughfares.
      7.   Threatening Animal: To permit any dog to habitually snap, growl,
snarl, jump upon or otherwise threaten persons lawfully using any common
thoroughfare, sidewalk, passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place where
people congregate or walk.
      8.   Vicious Or Dangerous Animal: To own, keep, harbor or maintain any
vicious or dangerous animal or animal with vicious propensities in a manner
which may or does endanger the safety of persons or property off his premises
or lawfully on his premises. Any dog, cat or other animal that has previously
demonstrated vicious propensities shall not be permitted upon a public street
or highway, or upon any premises other than those of the person owning such
dog, cat or other animal unless the dog, cat or other animal wears a muzzle
securely fastened about its mouth in such a manner that it cannot bite, and is
on a leash securely fastened to a collar or harness. The leash shall have an
overall length, including the handle, of not to exceed three feet (3'), shall
have a tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds, and shall be held by its
owner or other person able to control such dog, cat or other animal and, while
lawfully on the premises of the owner, shall not be allowed to come in contact
with any person who is not a member of the immediate household.
      9.   Disturbance Of The Peace 1 : To permit any dog or other animal to
howl, yelp, whine, or bark or make noise in such a manner as to disturb any
person or neighborhood at any time of the day or night.
      10.   Unsanitary Conditions: To allow any places where any animal is or
may be kept to become unclean or unsanitary or become offensive to those
residing in the vicinity.
      11.   Livestock: To harbor or keep any live horse, cattle, swine, sheep
or goat or to raise any chickens, rabbits, or fowl anywhere in the village.
Exceptions are animals kept in agriculture zoning districts or as allowed under
special use.
      12.   Number Of Dogs Or Cats: To keep on the premises more than four (4)
dogs or cats or any combination thereof over four (4) months of age, or more
than two (2) such animals boarded for compensation or kept for sale with the
exception of regularly established and zoned veterinary hospitals, pet shops,
pounds or shelters.
      13.   Excrement Removal:
         a.   For any person to cause or permit a dog to be on any property,
public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless such person has
in his immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement and a
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person.
         b.   Removal Required: For any person in control of, causing or
permitting any dog to be on any property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person to fail to remove excrement left by such dog to a
proper receptacle located on property owned or possessed by such person.
      14.   Bites: To fail to report an animal bite.
      15.   Animals Other Than Domestic Pets: To keep, harbor or maintain any
animal which may endanger the safety of persons or property. This includes
animals other than commonly recognized domestic pets which may harm or injure
humans or other animals by injection of toxins, by constriction or suffocation,
or by vicious biting, scratching or mauling. It is no defense to a violation of
this subsection that the keeper of such animal prohibited herein has attempted
to domesticate such animal. Exceptions to this subsection are animals displayed
or harbored in a zoo, carnival or circus.
      16.   Public Street Or Highway: To permit any dog, cat or other animal
upon a public street or highway, or upon any premises other than that of the
person owning such dog, cat or other animal unless such dog, cat or other
animal is on a leash securely fastened to a collar or harness. The overall
length of the leash including the handle shall not exceed six feet (6') and be
held by its owner or other person able to control such dog, cat or other animal
and, while lawfully on the premises of the owner, shall not be allowed to come
in contact with any person who is not a member of the immediate household.
      17.   Vicious Animal Requirements:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain an animal
which has been found to be a vicious animal unless such animal is at all times
kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious animal may be allowed out
of the enclosure are if it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain
veterinary care for the vicious animal or to comply with the order of a court
of competent jurisdiction; provided, that said vicious animal is securely
muzzled and restrained with a chain having a tensile strength of three hundred
(300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be under
the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious
animal.
         b.   Any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal and which
is not confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the law enforcement
authority having jurisdiction in such area and shall be turned over to a
licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal injection.
         c.   No owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall sell or give away
any vicious animal.
      18.   Public Nuisance: For any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous animal to leave the premises of its owner when not
under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   B.   Exemptions: Guide dogs for visually impaired or hearing impaired
persons, support dogs for persons with physical disabilities and sentry, guard,
or police-owned dogs are exempt from this section, provided an attack or injury
to a person occurs while the dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify
for exemption under this subsection, each such dog shall be currently
inoculated against rabies in accordance with section
6-2-7 of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog
to notify the police department of changes of address. In the case of a sentry
or guard dog, the owner shall keep the police department advised of the
location where such dog will be stationed.
   C.   Complaint: The village attorney may file a complaint to enjoin all
persons for maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and to enjoin
the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting same to leave his
premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
(2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2-2L3 of this code.
6-2-4: ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that an individual has
been bitten by an animal, to refuse to notify, within twenty four (24) hours,
the authorized person. When the authorized person receives information that any
person has been bitten by an animal, the authorized person shall have the owner
confine the biting animal under observation of a licensed veterinarian for a
period of ten (10) days beginning within twenty four (24) hours of the biting
incident. The biting animal may be confined in the house of its owner in a
manner which will prohibit it from biting any person or animal if a licensed
veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory.
   B.   When the biting animal is currently inoculated with rabies vaccine, the
animal's health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the authorized person
of the village and the LaSalle County department of animal and rabies control
on the first and tenth days of the observation period for rabies.
   C.   When the biting animal is not currently inoculated with rabies vaccine,
the animal's health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the authorized
person of the village and the LaSalle County department of animal and rabies
control on the first, fifth and tenth days of the observation period for
rabies.
   D.   It shall be the responsibility of the police department to complete the
LaSalle County animal dog bite card as soon as a bite is reported and mail it
to the LaSalle County department of animal control within twenty four (24)
hours.
   E.   Owners of caged rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, rats and mice
that have been owned over thirty (30) days shall not be required to obtain a
veterinary examination when their caged animal has bitten a person, but shall
report the health of the biting animal by telephone or in person to the
authorized person of the village and the LaSalle County department of animal
and rabies control on the first and tenth days following the bite.
   F.   Cattle, sheep, swine and horses that have bitten a person shall be
confined to the owner's property and examined by a veterinarian on the first
and tenth days after a bite.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a biting animal to euthanize,
sell, give away or otherwise dispose of, or have inoculated against rabies, the
animal known to have bitten a person until it has been released from
confinement for observation for rabies.
   H.   If the dog or other animal bites again during the confinement period,
it will be impounded for the full ten (10) day period commencing from the date
of the second bite. Owners allowing their dog or other animal to bite during
the confinement period will be subject to court citation. Owners not returning
their animals for followup examination on the appropriate dates will be in
violation and subject to court citation.
   I.   The owner of said dog or other animal shall be responsible for all fees
and charges incurred to meet the requirement of this section. (2003 Code)
6-2-5: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisance Animals; Impoundment Authorized: Any dog or other animal doing
any of the acts prohibited in section
6-2-4 of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such
animal may be seized and impounded as provided herein.
   B.   Notice To Owner; Impoundment Period; Disposition Of Animals: After such
animal is impounded, the police department, animal warden or authorized
representative shall ascertain whether the animal is licensed and, if so,
shall, within a reasonable time, notify the person to whom the license was
issued that said animal has been impounded and may be redeemed. All animals
impounded pursuant to this section shall be held for a minimum of seven (7)
days after notification of the owner. In case any animal is not released, it
shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of; provided, that none of
said animals shall be used for experimental purposes.
   C.   Redemption Of Impounded Animal: Any dog or other animal impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this section may be redeemed upon payment of the
required redemption fee, fines, license and vaccination fees as provided
herein. The animal shall be returned to the owner, provided he shall:
      1.   Show satisfactory proof of ownership.
      2.   Pay any fines or penalties imposed for violation of this chapter.
      3.   Pay the cost of keeping the animal while impounded by the village at
its pound.
      4.   Secure any animal license or rabies vaccination, if applicable and
due.
   D.   Liability For Fines And Costs: If ownership of the animal is
established and the owner refuses to redeem the same, he shall remain obligated
to pay all fines and impoundment expenses. (2003 Code)
6-2-6: DOG LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: All dogs three (3) months of age or older harbored,
kept or maintained in the village shall be licensed annually; provided,
however, that dogs kept in pet shops, pounds, shelters, hospitals or kennels
need not be licensed annually while kept at such pet shop, pound, shelter,
hospital or kennel.
   B.   Application For License: Applications for dog licenses shall be on
forms provided by the village and shall be submitted with the annual fee to the
village clerk.
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee to license each dog is twenty five dollars
($25.00).
   D.   Term Of License: The license period shall be from January 1 of each
year to December 31 of the same year.
   E.   License Tag: Upon payment of the annual fee as provided, the village
clerk shall provide each owner with a license tag and a memorandum of registry
on each animal. The license tag shall be securely affixed to a substantial
collar and shall be worn by each dog at all times. Tags shall not be
transferrable to other animals and are nonrefundable.
   F.   Electronic Fences: Any owner who seeks to utilize an electronic fence
must complete a separate form so indicating and submit that form with his
license application. A list of all electronic fence owners and their property
addresses will be kept by the village clerk and made available for inspection
upon request. (2003 Code)
6-2-7: RABIES INOCULATIONS:
   A.   Inoculations Required: Every owner, except animal shelters, animal
impounding facilities and laboratory animal facilities, of a dog or cat four
(4) months or more of age shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated with
rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian at such intervals as approved by the
Illinois department of agriculture. The rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the
United States department of agriculture and approved by the Illinois department
of agriculture.
   B.   Prerequisite To Dog License: No license for a dog shall be issued
unless the application for said license is accompanied by a certificate by a
veterinarian that said dog has received inoculation for rabies prevention
within the preceding year as required by this section.
   C.   Rabies Tag: Any dog or cat which is kept or maintained in the village
shall display the LaSalle County rabies tag on the collar of such dog or cat at
all times. (2003 Code)
6-2-8: ESTRUS (HEAT):
Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact
with a male dog or cat except for planned breeding. (2003 Code)
6-2-9: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Running At Large, Removal From Premises Prohibited: No domestic animal
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to run at
large, or be exposed to any public place whereby the health of man or other
animals may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed
from the premises of the owner, except under the supervision of an authorized
person.
   B.   Preventive Measures: It should be made the duty of such person so
authorized to secure such disposition of any diseased animal and secure
treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication and spread of
contagion and infection, except as otherwise provided by law. (2003 Code)
6-2-10: DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Time Limit For Disposition; Burial Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow any dead animals which he owns to remain within the village for
more than twenty four (24) hours. No such animal shall be buried within the
village limits; except, that dead animals may be buried on property owned,
operated and maintained for agricultural purposes in the manner hereinafter
provided.
   B.   Permit To Bury: No dead animal shall be buried on any property owned,
operated or maintained for agricultural purposes unless a permit therefor has
been obtained from the police or public health department.
   C.   Burial Requirements: No dead animal weighing seventy five (75) pounds
or less shall be buried in any grave that is less than three feet (3') deep. No
dead animal weighing more than seventy five (75) pounds shall be buried in any
grave that is less than six feet (6') deep. No dead animal shall be buried
within a grave that is within seventy five feet (75') of any stream,
watercourse or well.
   D.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the burial of birds. (2003 Code)
6-2-11: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense, not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) for the second offense, not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the third offense, and not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for the fourth offense. Upon trial and a finding of guilt, the maximum fine
shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Damage To Public Property
6-3-2: Advertisements
6-3-3: Offenses Involving Public Health And Safety
6-3-3-1: Abandoned Containers
6-3-3-2: Throwing Missiles; Deposit Of Dangerous Materials
6-3-3-3: Scaffolds And Tools
6-3-3-4: Articles On Window Ledges
6-3-3-5: Obstructing Exits And Stairways
6-3-4: Offenses Involving Morals And Decency
6-3-4-1: Indecent Publications
6-3-4-2: Public Nudity
6-3-5: Vagrancy
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure, deface or interfere with any
property belonging to the village without proper authority from the council.
(1966 Code § 5.603; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-2: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Unlawful Advertisements; Damage To Advertisements: It shall be unlawful
to advertise any unlawful business or article in the village, and it shall be
unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement or notice. (1966 Code §
19.013)
   B.   Posting Bills: It shall be unlawful to post any bills or advertisements
on any public property without the authority of the council, and it shall be
unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on any property without the written
consent of the owner thereof. (1966 Code § 19.018)
6-3-3: OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY:
6-3-3-1: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, discard or leave standing in
any place accessible to children any refrigerator, freezer, icebox, ice chest
or other container of any kind which has an airtight door or lock which may not
be released for opening from the inside of said refrigerator, icebox, ice chest
or container of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more. (1966
Code § 19.029; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-3-2: THROWING MISSILES; DEPOSIT OF DANGEROUS MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street, alley
or public place, and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails,
tacks, or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk or alley in the
village 1 . (1966 Code § 19.012)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-6 of this code.
6-3-3-3: SCAFFOLDS AND TOOLS:
Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall onto any public street, alley or other public place in the village shall
be firmly and properly constructed and safeguarded, and it shall be unlawful to
place or leave any tools or article on any such place in such a manner that the
same can fall onto any such street, sidewalk, alley or other public place from
a height greater than four feet (4'). (1966 Code § 19.022)
6-3-3-4: ARTICLES ON WINDOW LEDGES:
It shall be unlawful to place any movable article on any window ledge or other
place abutting on a public street, alley or other place at a height above four
feet (4') from the ground in such a manner that the same can be or is in danger
of falling onto such street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. (1966 Code
§ 19.023)
6-3-3-5: OBSTRUCTING EXITS AND STAIRWAYS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used by two
(2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with the
free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1966 Code § 19.025)
6-3-4: OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY:
6-3-4-1: INDECENT PUBLICATIONS:
   A.   Sale And Display: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or to
circulate, pass from one person to another, or expose in any public place or
anywhere in view in a store or place frequented by the public, any immoral,
indecent or obscene publications, printed or written matter, or picture or
other representation. (1966 Code § 19.021)
   B.   Persons Under Eighteen Years Of Age: It shall be unlawful to keep any
such publication, printed or written matter, picture or other representation in
any place frequented by, or where it may come into possession of persons under
eighteen (18) years of age, or to disclose or expose any such material to a
person under eighteen (18) years of age. (1966 Code § 19.021; amd. 2003 Code)
6-3-4-2: PUBLIC NUDITY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to bathe at any public place or in any
public place or any place open to public view unless such person is adequately
garbed in a bathing suit. (1966 Code § 19.017)
6-3-5: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for mendicants or vagrants to frequent any depot, store,
theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place, or any place
frequented by the public in the village. Any person found sleeping in any such
place, and who has no established domicile or residence, shall be considered to
be a vagrant. (1966 Code § 19.026)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1966 Code § 19.032; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
JUVENILES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Curfew Regulations
6-4-2: Smoking Materials
6-4-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: There shall be in effect in the village a
curfew as follows:
      1.   It is unlawful for a person less than fifteen (15) years of age,
between the hours set forth below, to be present at or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway at the following times unless
accompanied and supervised by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a
business or occupation which the laws of the state authorize a person less than
fifteen (15) years of age to perform or unless in attendance at or traveling
directly home from school, place of employment, place of worship, or a
community organization sponsored activity:
         a.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Friday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Saturday.
         b.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Saturday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Sunday.
         c.   Between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
      2.   It is unlawful for a person of fifteen (15) or more years of age but
less than seventeen (17) years of age, between the hours set forth below, to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at
the following times unless accompanied and supervised by a parent or legal
guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
state authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform or
unless in attendance at or traveling directly home from school, place of
employment, place of worship, or a community organization sponsored activity:
         a.   Between eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. Friday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday.
         b.   Between eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. Saturday and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday.
         c.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   B.   Responsibility Of Legal Guardian: It is unlawful for any person having
the legal custody a child to knowingly allow or permit such child to violate
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such offense. (Ord. 14-97, 8-5-
1997; amd. 2003 Code)
6-4-2: SMOKING MATERIALS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
    MINOR: A person who has not yet attained the age of eighteen (18) years.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint venture or any employee or agent thereof.
   ROLLING PAPER: That paper product customarily used to insert loose tobacco
and, by rolling, make into a cigarette.
   SMOKING MATERIALS: Any substance containing either smoking herbs or tobacco
leaf, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, loose
tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping tobacco, and also including rolling
paper.
   VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
smoking materials.
   B.   Sales And Delivery To Minors:
      1.   Prohibited Sales And Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver smoking materials to any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   Request Identification: If any person contemplating the sale or
furnishing of smoking materials believes or has reason to believe that a sale
or delivery of smoking materials is prohibited because the prospective
recipient is a minor, he shall, before making such sale or delivery, demand
presentation of some form of positive identification.
   C.   Signs Posted: Every person engaged in the business of selling smoking
materials shall at all times display signs informing the public of the age
restrictions provided for herein. The sign shall be posted by every licensee at
or near every display of smoking materials and on or upon every vending machine
which offers smoking materials for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly
visible and shall state:
THE SALE OF SMOKING MATERIALS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW
The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
   D.   Minimum Age To Sell Smoking Materials: It shall be unlawful to engage,
employ or permit any person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell smoking
materials.
   E.   Purchase And Possession By Minors:
      1.   Purchase And False Identification Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to purchase smoking
materials, or to misrepresent his identity or age, or to use any false or
altered identification for the purpose of purchasing smoking materials.
      2.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years to possess any smoking materials; provided, that the
possession by a person under the age of eighteen (18) years under the direct
supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of the
parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited.
   F.   Responsibility For Agents And Employees: Every act or omission of any
nature which constitutes a violation of any of the provisions of this section
by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any person
owning a business open to the public in the village shall be deemed and held to
be the act of such owner, and such owner shall be punishable in the same manner
as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the owner personally.
(Ord. 9-97, 5-6-1997)
   G.   Penalty: Any person found to have violated any provision of this
section shall be fined not more than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first
offense and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
subsequent occurrence. (Ord. 9-97, 5-6-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Application Of Provisions To Animals And Bicycles
7-1-2: Exemptions From Provisions
7-1-3: Speed Limits
7-1-4: Riding On Bicycles And Motorcycles
7-1-5: Bicycle Equipment
7-1-6: Clinging To Vehicles
7-1-7: Toy Vehicles
7-1-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO ANIMALS AND BICYCLES:
Any person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the traffic provisions applicable
to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have no
application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal. Provided,
that except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks. (1966
Code § 8.105)
7-1-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   Traffic provisions regulating the movement or parking of vehicles
shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when
responding to an emergency call, but such driver, when approaching, shall slow
down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a red or stop sign
or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop
in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
      2.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any
special privileges except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
   B.   Public Works Vehicles: The provisions of this title regulating the
movement and parking of vehicles shall not apply to persons, equipment, or
vehicles while actually engaged in installing, repairing, or otherwise
improving streets or street pavements. (1966 Code § 8.106)
7-1-3: SPEED LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not under the
jurisdiction of the department of transportation of the state and for which the
county or the county highway commissioner does not have maintenance
responsibility, in an urban district within the village at a speed in excess of
twenty (20) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed in excess of fifteen (15)
miles per hour, as indicated by appropriate signs erected at the proper place
giving notice of such limit. "Urban district" is defined to be the territory
contiguous to and including any street which is built up with structures
devoted to business, industry, or dwelling houses situated at intervals of less
than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a quarter of a mile or more.
(Ord. 4-2002, 1-8-2002)
7-1-4: RIDING ON BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Motorcycles:
      1.   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event, a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the motorcycle at the rear or side of the
operator.
      2.   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle only while sitting astride the
seat, facing forward, with one leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      3.   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than
the height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator.
   B.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or
astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped; except, that an adult rider may
carry a child securely attached to his person in a backpack or sling. (2003
Code)
7-1-5: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lamps And Reflectors: Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the state which shall be visible
from all distances from one hundred feet (100') to six hundred feet (600') to
the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor
vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred
feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
adequately control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   C.   Siren Prohibited: A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any
person use upon a bicycle any siren. (2003 Code)
7-1-6: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person riding a bicycle, motorcycle, or any toy
vehicle on any street to cling to or attach himself or his vehicle to any
moving vehicle. (1966 Code § 8.325; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-7: TOY VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk. (1966 Code § 8.326)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-2-2: Method Of Parking
7-2-3: General Parking Restrictions
7-2-4: Time Limit Parking
7-2-5: Passenger Loading Zones
7-2-6: Parking Heavy Vehicles
7-2-7: Signs Posted
7-2-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand at any time in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device:
   A.   In any intersection.
   B.   In a crosswalk.
   C.   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
   D.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
   E.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign on the
approaching side.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
   G.   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
   H.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   I.   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
   J.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   K.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
department station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any
such station within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly
signposted.
   L.   On any sidewalk or parkway.
   M.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (1966 Code § 8.501)
7-2-2: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand
wheels parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as
close as practicable to the right edge of the right hand shoulder.
   B.   Except when otherwise provided, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a
one-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of
the roadway, in the direction of authorized traffic movement, with its right
hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right hand shoulder, or with its left hand
wheels within twelve inches (12") of the left hand curb or as close as
practicable to the left edge of the left hand shoulder. (2003 Code)
7-2-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Snow Removal: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public
street in the village at any time between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. immediately following or during a snowfall of
one inch (1") or more. (Ord. 15-04, 3-2-2004)
   B.   Street Cleaning: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public
street or portion thereof in the village at any time when such street is being
cleaned. Signs indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned
shall be posted immediately before the cleaning of the street and shall be
removed after the cleaning of the street is finished. (1966 Code § 8.503)
   C.   Vehicles For Sale; Sales Of Merchandise From: It shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or
to park any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle merchandise is
peddled. (1966 Code § 8.507)
   D.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1966 Code § 8.510)
   E.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any
private property without the consent of the owner of the property. (1966 Code §
8.511)
7-2-4: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   One Hour Parking: Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful
to park any vehicle for more than one hour in any consecutive period of time
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. in
any area designated by ordinance as a restricted parking area. (1966 Code §
8.504)
   B.   Two Hour Parking: Parking in excess of two (2) hours is hereby
prohibited between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays on that portion of Railroad Street posted
with signs giving notice of this prohibition. Anyone who violates this
subsection shall be subject to a penalty as provided in section
7-4-4 of this title. It shall be considered a separate violation for each hour
that such parking continues in excess of two (2) hours and shall be punishable
by a separate fine. (Ord. 9-99, 7-6-1999; amd. 2003 Code)
7-2-5: PASSENGER LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or unloading of
passengers, not to exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any place designated by the
council as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the following
designated places:
   A.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
   B.   At any place not to exceed seventy five feet (75') along the curb line
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on a Sunday.
   C.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open. (1966 Code § 8.508)
7-2-6: PARKING HEAVY VEHICLES:
   A.   Time Limit: No person operating a semitractor, semitrailer, combination
thereof or other commercial motor vehicle having a gross vehicular weight in
excess of fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds shall stop, stand, or park upon any
street, alley, or village parking lot for more than ninety (90) minutes, unless
loading or unloading from or to an actual premises on a normal continuous
basis.
   B.   Residential Areas: No person operating a semitractor, semitrailer or
combination thereof or other commercial motor vehicle having a gross vehicular
weight in excess of fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds shall stand or park upon
any driveway or lot in a residential district, unless loading or unloading from
or to an actual premises on a normal continuous basis.
   C.   Violations:
      1.   Prima Facie Proof: Whenever any semitractor, semitrailer,
combination thereof, or other motor vehicle having a gross vehicular weight in
excess of fourteen thousand (14,000) pounds shall have been parked in violation
of any provision hereof, the person in whose name such semitractor or
semitrailer is registered shall be prima facie responsible for the violation
and subject to the penalty therefor.
      2.   Notice Of Violation: Any police officer observing such violation may
issue a parking violation notice and serve the notice on the owner or operator
of the vehicle by handing to the operator of the vehicle, if said operator is
present, or by affixing it to the vehicle in a conspicuous place. The notice
shall specify the parking ordinance allegedly violated, the make and state
registration number of the vehicle, and the place, date, time, and nature of
the violation, and shall certify the correctness of the specified information
by the signing of the officer's name to the notice.
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of
up to seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each offense. Each day that said
violation shall continue shall be considered a separate offense subject to a
separate fine. (Ord. 8-2001, 1-2-2001)
7-2-7: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1966 Code § 8.512)
CHAPTER 3
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES 1
SECTION:
7-3-1: Inoperable Vehicles
7-3-2: Abandoned Vehicles
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 5-2-2I of this code; see section
  5-4-1 of this code which defines litter as including abandoned vehicles.
7-3-1: INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known and may be cited and referred to as
the INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE ORDINANCE.
   B.   Definition: "Inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle,
including parts thereof, from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days,
the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed or on which the engine,
wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power. "Inoperable
motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to
perform ordinary service or repair operations.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: All inoperable motor vehicles and parts thereof in
the village, whether on public or private property and in view of the general
public, are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are hereby prohibited. No
person shall cause, continue, maintain, or permit to exist any such nuisance
within the village.
   D.   Inoperable Vehicle Determined; Procedure:
      1.   Ownership Determined; Notice And Removal:
         a.   If, upon investigation, it is determined that a vehicle within
the village is an inoperable vehicle within the meaning of this section, an
attempt shall be made to determine the ownership of such vehicle and the owner
and occupant of the private property upon which such inoperable vehicle is
located.
         b.   Upon determining the ownership of the inoperable vehicle,
notification shall be sent to the owner and any lienholder by certified mail or
by personal service that the vehicle must be removed or made operable within
seven (7) days from the receipt of such notice or such motor vehicle will be
removed by towing. Such notice shall also be sent to the owner and occupant of
the private property upon which such inoperable motor vehicle is located. The
notice shall advise the recipient that the recipient can appeal the
determination that the vehicle is inoperable, which such appeal shall be
directed to the village council. No action will be taken concerning a vehicle
while an appeal is pending.
         c.   If no appeal is made and the vehicle remains inoperable after
seven (7) days have expired from the date the owner and lienholder have
received the notice set forth above, the village police chief shall order the
vehicle removed from its location by a towing service.
      2.   Ownership Not Determined; Removal: Any inoperable motor vehicle
whose ownership cannot be determined shall be removed from its location by a
towing service on order of the village police chief once it is determined that
the owner cannot be identified.
   E.   Exemptions From Provisions: Nothing in this section shall apply to any
motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, to operable
historic vehicles over twenty five (25) years of age, or to a motor vehicle on
the premises on a place of business properly licensed and engaged in the
wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord. 8-95, 5-2-1995)
   F.   Violation; Penalty: Any owner of an inoperable motor vehicle, any owner
or occupant of private property upon which an inoperable motor vehicle is
located or any other person in control of an inoperable motor vehicle who fails
to obey the notice referred to herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
7-4-4 of this title. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 8-95, 5-2-1995; amd. 2003
Code)
7-3-2: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
   A.   Statement And Purpose:
      1.   Motor vehicles are, or may in the future, be abandoned in the
streets and other places in the village;
      2.   There are, or may in the future be, abandoned vehicles left about
the village other than in junkyards or other appropriate places;
      3.   Such conditions tend to impede traffic in the streets or interfere
with the enjoyment of and reduce the value of private property; create fire
hazards, and other safety and health hazards to children as well as to adults;
and interfere with the comfort and well-being of the public; and
      4.   Adequate protection of the public health, safety, and welfare
requires that such conditions be regulated, abated or prohibited.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
    ABANDONED: Shall refer to a vehicle which has remained stationary or left
unattended on a street or highway within the village of Leland for more than
twenty four (24) hours except in cases in which such a vehicle is in such a
stationary state on a street or highway immediately adjacent to the residence
of the person having ownership of or control over such vehicle, in which case,
such vehicle shall be considered to be abandoned after ninety (90) days.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization, or group of individuals of any kind.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, motorscooter, tractor, and
snowmobile.
   C.   Abandonment Prohibited: No person shall abandon any vehicle within the
definition provided by this section in any place within the village.
   D.   Impoundment Of Abandoned Vehicles: Any member of the police department
designated by the mayor and village council is hereby authorized to remove or
have removed any vehicle left at any place within the village which is in
violation of this section. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of in accordance with chapter 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4-201 et seq. (Ord. 9-95, 5-2-1995)
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who fails to comply with subsection C of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punishable as provided in section
7-4-4 of this title. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (Ord. 9-95, 5-2-1995; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Prima Facie Proof
7-4-2: Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles
7-4-3: Settling Parking Violations
7-4-4: Penalty
7-4-1: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally operated or parked is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation. (1966 Code §
8.803)
7-4-2: TOWING ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any public street or
other public place for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive hours. Cars so
towed away shall be stored on any village property or in a public garage or
parking lot, and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof after
payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and storing such
vehicles. (1966 Code § 8.505)
7-4-3: SETTLING PARKING VIOLATIONS 1 :
Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting parking a vehicle
in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a vehicle may be there
parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal
parking by paying to the village the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for the first
and second violations, and ten dollars ($10.00) for subsequent violations
within twenty four (24) hours of the time such alleged offense was committed.
Such payment may be made at the police station, and a receipt shall be issued
for all money so received, and such money shall be promptly turned over to the
treasurer. The members of the police department are hereby authorized to
refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved.
Provided, that this section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as
to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where police or fire department
apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an
emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this section apply to any person
charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street
or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street
to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle
illegally parked at the request of any member of the police department. (1966
Code § 8.804; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  7-2-6D of this title, penalty for illegally parking heavy vehicles.
7-4-4: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of this title shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1966 Code § 8.801; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OPERATION OF NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES ON VILLAGE STREETS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Policy Statement
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Authorization Of Certain Nonhighway Vehicles
7-5-4: Rules And Regulations
7-5-5: Inspection And Nonhighway Vehicle License
7-5-6: Temporary Special Event License
7-5-7: Exemptions
7-5-8: Advisory Signage
7-5-9: Enforcement And Penalty
7-5-1: POLICY STATEMENT:
This chapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. All- terrain
vehicles, golf carts, off highway motorcycles and recreational off highway
vehicles, hereinafter "nonhighway vehicles", as defined in the Illinois vehicle
code, are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and
roadways or highways, hereinafter "streets", and the village does not advocate
or endorse their operation on village streets. The village, by regulating such
operation, is merely addressing public safety issues. The village council has
considered the volume, speed, and character of traffic on village roadways and
has determined that nonhighway vehicles may safely travel on or cross village
roadways and that public safety will not be jeopardized by the operation of
nonhighway vehicles. This chapter is not to be relied upon by any individual as
a determination that operation of nonhighway vehicles on village streets is
safe or advisable even if done in accordance with this chapter. All persons
operating nonhighway vehicles must be observant of, and attentive to, the
safety of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists,
bicyclists and pedestrians. All persons who operate or ride nonhighway vehicles
on streets inside the village do so at their own risk and peril. The village
disavows any liability for permitting nonhighway vehicles to be operated on
village streets. The enactment of this chapter is not intended to designate the
operation of a nonhighway vehicle as an intended or permitted use of property
with respect to section 3-102 of the local governmental and governmental
employees tort immunity act, 745 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1-101 et seq.
(Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device designed to travel
primarily off highway, fifty inches (50") or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds or less,
traveling on three (3) or more nonhighway tires, designed with a seat or saddle
for operator use, and handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except
equipment such as lawn mowers. (625 ILCS 5/1-101.8)
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
(625 ILCS 5/1-123.9)
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or located on public school property. (625 ILCS 5/1-126)
NONHIGHWAY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a
public street, including all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, off highway
motorcycles and recreational off highway vehicles. (625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(a))
OFF HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE: Any motorized device designed to travel primarily off
highway on two (2) wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator,
upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported or drawn.
(625 ILCS 5/1-153.1)
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device designed to
travel primarily off highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in width, having
a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, traveling
on four (4) or more nonhighway tires, designed with a nonstraddle seat and a
steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawn mowers. (625
ILCS 5/1-168.8)
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively. (625 ILCS 5/1-179)
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel. (625 ILCS 5/1-201) (Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
7-5-3: AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   Golf carts and recreational off highway vehicles in compliance with
this chapter are hereby authorized to operate on village streets.
   B.   All-terrain vehicles are prohibited from operation on village streets,
except as may be temporarily authorized as per subsections
7-5-7B and C of this chapter.
   C.   Off highway motorcycles are prohibited from operation on village
streets.
   D.   The operation on village streets of any nonhighway or similar type
vehicle not specifically addressed in this chapter, which is not designed or
manufactured to be used on public streets, shall be prohibited and any such
operation found to be in violation of state laws shall be punishable in
accordance with applicable laws of the Illinois vehicle code 1 . (Ord. 12-12,
12-4-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
7-5-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Those nonhighway vehicles authorized under section
7-5-3 of this chapter may be operated on streets within the village, but only
in strict compliance with the following rules and regulations:
   A.   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle in the village takes full
responsibility for all liability associated with operating the nonhighway
vehicle.
   B.   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle must be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and possess a valid driver's license.
   C.   Any person who operates a nonhighway vehicle must possess proof of
liability insurance for personal injury and property damage with limits of
liability not less than the minimum required by the state of Illinois for
passenger vehicles pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-203. Evidence
of insurance, in the form of an insurance card as prescribed in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/7-602 must be surrendered to any officer of the village
police department or any other law enforcement agency for inspection upon
request.
   D.   A nonhighway vehicle shall have its headlight and taillamps lighted at
all times when operated on village streets as required by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-201.
   E.   Nonhighway vehicles may not be operated when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the street at a
distance of five hundred feet (500'). Village police officers shall have sole
discretion in determining whether weather, smoke, fog or insufficient lighting
conditions exist.
   F.   Nonhighway vehicles may not be operated on village streets which have a
posted speed limit of more than thirty five (35) miles per hour. This section
does not prohibit nonhighway vehicles from crossing a street at the
intersection where the street has a posted speed limit of more than thirty five
(35) miles per hour.
   G.   Nonhighway vehicles may not be operated on village streets at a speed
greater than twenty (20) miles per hour.
   H.   Nonhighway vehicles must be equipped with seat belts, a horn, brakes, a
steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, front and rear red reflectorized
warning devices, a slow moving vehicle emblem on the rear in conformity with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-709, a headlight that emits a white light
visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front in daylight, a
taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100')
from the rear in daylight, brake lights, and turn signals.
   I.   Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
nonhighway vehicle within the village must adhere to all applicable laws of the
Illinois vehicle code 1 .
   J.   Nonhighway vehicle drivers must yield the right of way to overtaking
vehicles at all times.
   K.   The maximum occupancy of nonhighway vehicles traveling on village
streets will be one person per bucket seat and not more persons than the number
of available seat belts per bench seat.
   L.   All persons operating and riding in nonhighway vehicles must be
properly seated and seat belted while the nonhighway vehicle is in motion.
   M.   All persons operating and riding in nonhighway vehicles not equipped
with a full windshield shall be required to wear protective eyewear at all
times while the nonhighway vehicle is in motion.
   N.   Nonhighway vehicles may only be operated between the hours of sunrise
to sunset.
   O.   Nonhighway vehicles shall not park in handicapped parking spaces unless
the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking permit issued
by the Illinois secretary of state.
   P.   Nonhighway vehicles may not be operated on sidewalks or other public or
private property not accessible to or authorized to vehicular traffic, except
as otherwise permitted in this chapter. (Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
7-5-5: INSPECTION AND NONHIGHWAY VEHICLE LICENSE:
   A.   Inspection: All nonhighway vehicles operated on the streets must be
inspected annually by the chief of police of the village or his/her designee.
All persons operating nonhighway vehicles on the streets shall submit to the
chief of police of the village or his/her designee a completed application for
inspection as prescribed by the police department, along with an application
fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) payable to the village. All nonhighway vehicles
shall have at a minimum, the equipment required per subsection
7-5-4H of this chapter.
   B.   Nonhighway Vehicle License: All nonhighway vehicles operated on the
streets must display, in a manner as prescribed by the chief of police of the
village, a valid village nonhighway vehicle license issued by the chief of
police of the village or his/her designee after successfully passing
inspection. The nonhighway vehicle license shall be valid for a period of one
calendar year beginning April 1 and expiring March 31 of the following year.
Nonhighway vehicle licenses shall not be transferable to any other person or
nonhighway vehicle. (Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
7-5-6: TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT LICENSE:
   A.   The chief of police of the village or his/her designee is hereby
authorized to issue temporary special event licenses for the use of nonhighway
vehicles on village streets, for a time period not to exceed seven (7) days, to
persons participating in auctions, carnivals, car shows, swap meets or any
other event similar in nature. Such temporary special event licenses shall only
be issued after receipt of an application and payment of a five dollar ($5.00)
per day fee, payable to the village for each nonhighway vehicle. All nonhighway
vehicles granted a temporary special event license shall be exempt from the
minimum equipment requirements per subsection
7-5-4H of this chapter and shall be exempt from inspection as required per
subsection
7-5-5A of this chapter. Nonhighway vehicles granted a temporary special event
license shall display, in a manner as prescribed by the chief of police of the
village, said temporary special event license issued by the chief of police of
the village or his/her designee. Temporary special event nonhighway vehicle
licenses shall not be transferable to any other person or nonhighway vehicle.
(Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
7-5-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Officers of the village police department or other law enforcement
agency, firemen, emergency medical personnel, members of an emergency
management and disaster agency, the county health department, the county animal
control, or any other bona fide public safety agency, and the village
maintenance department shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
while operating any nonhighway vehicle on village streets in the performance of
official duties.
   B.   The operation of all-terrain vehicles on village streets by persons
participating in auctions, carnivals, car shows, swap meets or any other event
similar in nature, shall only be permitted on a temporary basis, and only after
being licensed per section
7-5-6 of this chapter.
   C.   The temporary operation of any nonhighway vehicle not otherwise
authorized, properly equipped and licensed per this chapter, by persons
participating in parades, is hereby authorized. Such operation shall be
directly from the place of storage of said vehicle to the starting location of
the parade, along the parade route while said parade is in motion, and directly
from the ending location of the parade back to the place of storage of said
vehicle. (Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
7-5-8: ADVISORY SIGNAGE:
   A.   The village shall install and maintain at every entrance to the village
warning signs designed in accordance with the United States department of
transportation "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" for the purpose of
cautioning motorists traveling streets throughout the village about the
permitted use of nonhighway vehicles on village streets. Such signs shall state
the following, at a minimum: "Warning, Non-Highway Vehicles In Use" and "Permit
Required". (Ord. 12-12, 12-4-2012)
7-5-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Local Rules And Regulations: Any act constituting a violation of this
chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements is deemed a petty
offense and shall be punishable in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   State Law: Any person operating or is in actual physical control of a
nonhighway vehicle within the village found to be in violation of state laws
shall be punishable in accordance with applicable laws of the Illinois vehicle
code 1 .
   C.   Suspension And Revocation Of License:
      1.   Nonhighway vehicle licenses may be suspended by the village council
upon recommendation by the chief of police of the village or his/her designee
after presentation of evidence in support of such suspension, for a time period
of at least one month and not to exceed six (6) months. Suspended nonhighway
vehicle licenses shall be surrendered to the chief of police of the village or
his/her designee by the license holder immediately upon receipt of notice of
suspension.
      2.   Persons having their nonhighway vehicle license suspended three (3)
times within any two (2) year period may have their nonhighway vehicle license
revoked by the village council upon recommendation of the chief of police of
the village or his/her designee upon presentation of evidence in support of
such revocation, for a time period of at least one year and not to exceed two
(2) years. Revoked nonhighway vehicle licenses shall be surrendered to the
chief of police of the village or his/her designee by the license holder
immediately upon receipt of notice of revocation.
      3.   Persons having their nonhighway vehicle license suspended or revoked
must submit a completed application for reinspection and reinstatement of
nonhighway vehicle license along with a thirty dollar ($30.00) reinspection and
reinstatement fee after conclusion of suspension or revocation period. (Ord.
12-12, 12-4-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Supervision
8-1-2: Bond Requirements
8-1-3: Repairs And Defects
8-1-4: Barricades And Lights
8-1-5: Openings In Public Ways
8-1-6: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-7: Utility Poles And Wires
8-1-8: Obstructing Public Ways
8-1-9: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
8-1-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-1-11: Penalty
8-1-1: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the
supervision of the commissioner of streets and public improvements. He shall
have supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places (except traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce
such ordinances. (1966 Code § 7.101)
8-1-2: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
A person engaging in work upon public ways shall file a bond or policy in the
amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) with sureties to be approved by
the council, conditioned to indemnify the village from any loss or damage
resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the same. (1966 Code
§ 7.103; amd. 2003 Code)
8-1-3: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
   A.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of streets and public
improvements. (1966 Code § 7.106)
   B.   Defects: It shall be the duty of every officer or employee becoming
cognizant of any defect in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or any obstruction
thereof, to report the same to the commissioner of streets and public
improvements as soon as possible. (1966 Code § 7.107)
8-1-4: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS 1 :
   A.   Barricades And Lights Required:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on
a street, sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in the same,
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle
by reason of the work; such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at
nighttime.
      2.   Any defects in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury, and any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the
same remains open by proper barricades and lights. (1966 Code § 7.109)
   B.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricades or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new
pavement or excavation or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1966 Code § 7.110)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-4 of this title.
8-1-5: OPENINGS IN PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway in any
public street or alley or sidewalk or other public place without a permit from
the council. All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a
suitable strong cover or railing, to the approval of the commissioner of
streets and public improvements. (1966 Code § 7.116)
8-1-6: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS 1 :
   A.   Deposit On Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any glass, or
other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal or property. (1966
Code § 7.118)
      2.   Materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to delivery for
use; provided, that such deposit does not reduce the usable width of the street
or roadway at that point to less than eighteen feet (18'); and provided, that
such material, other than material used in actual building construction, shall
not be permitted to remain in such street for more than three (3) hours. Any
such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains upon any street
during nighttime. (1966 Code § 7.118; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Deposits On Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other article which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the sidewalk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1966 Code §
7.119)
   C.   Dumping Of Snow In Public Streets:
      1.   The dumping, piling, pushing, or otherwise placing of measurable and
significant amounts of snow in public streets and roadways within the corporate
limits of the village of Leland is a safety hazard and shall be prohibited.
      2.   Other than by municipal government employees in the course of their
employment while plowing the public streets and roadways, no person or entity
shall dump, pile, push or otherwise place snow onto the public streets and
roadways within the village corporate limits, or authorize, direct or cause
snow to be dumped, piled, pushed or otherwise placed onto the public streets
and roadways within the village, or allow snow to be removed from one's
premises and dumped, piled, pushed or otherwise placed onto public streets and
roadways within the village except on a temporary basis while in the process of
shoveling, plowing or otherwise removing snow.
      3.   It is a violation of this subsection for any person or entity who
owns, rents, or otherwise occupies or has control over any property fronting on
any public street or roadway from which abutting property snow has been dumped,
piled or pushed or otherwise placed, other than by municipal governmental
employees in the course of their employment while plowing the public streets
and roadways, to fail or refuse to remove the snow by or from in front of the
property within twenty four (24) hours after receiving notice and direction to
remove the snow by a police officer or other authorized village agent or
employee.
      4.   Snow which has been dumped, piled, pushed or otherwise placed onto
the municipal streets and roadways of the village is significant in amount when
it impedes, tends to impede, or is likely to impede the free flow of traffic
over, on, onto, or entering or exiting from the paved portion of the public
streets and roadways of the village.
      5.   Snow shall be considered to have been dumped, piled, pushed or
otherwise placed onto a public street or roadway when the snow is dumped,
piled, pushed or otherwise placed in between the curbing, on streets and
roadways which are curbed, or onto the paved surface of streets or roadways
which are not curbed and left to remain for any period of time other than in
the actual process of shoveling, plowing or removing snow.
      6.   For purposes of this subsection, the word "snow" shall include snow,
ice, slush and water in any solid or semisolid form.
      7.   It shall not be a violation of this subsection to fail to remove
snow that is left on the public streets and roadways as a result of plowing by
any governmental agency; nor is this subsection to be read to require anyone to
remove snow which has accumulated naturally in the public streets and roadways.
      8.   Any person, firm or corporation violating this subsection shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Each day
a violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 01-
11, 1-4-2011)
 
Notes
  2. See also subsection
1 5-3-3B and section
  6-3-3-2 of this code.
8-1-7: UTILITY POLES AND WIRES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley or other public way without first
having secured permission from the council. (1966 Code § 7.114)
8-1-8: OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Obstructions Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to cause, create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, except as may be specifically authorized by
ordinance or by the commissioner of streets and public improvements. (1966 Code
§ 7.108)
   B.   Obstructing Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any
public street or alley. (1966 Code § 7.113)
   C.   Obstructing View At Corners: It shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain or permit to remain any fence or other structure, or any bushes or
other plants, on a corner lot within fifty feet (50') of the street line, which
obstructs the view, at a height of more than five feet (5') above the level of
the adjacent street pavement. (1966 Code § 7.121)
8-1-9: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or in
part of barbed wire, or with any similar materials, designed to cause injury to
persons, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within the
village except to protect industrial property, in which case, barbed wire must
be at least six feet (6') above the sidewalk and extend inward of the property
1 . (1966 Code § 7.117)
 
Notes
  1. See also subsection
1 11-10-7B2 of this code; see subsections
  11-7-3B and 11-10-7E of this code for height restrictions.
8-1-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while
the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any
street, sidewalk or alley pavement. (1966 Code § 7.105)
   B.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property. (1966 Code §
7.112)
   C.   Private Use; Graffiti: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the
display of goods or merchandise for sale, or to write or mark any signs or
advertisements on any such pavement. (1966 Code § 7.111)
   D.   Burning Leaves And Rubbish 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances upon
any of the public streets, sidewalks or alleys in the village. (1966 Code §
7.120)
 
Notes
  2. See also subsection
1 5-2-2I and section
  5-7-3 of this code.
8-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code § 7.122; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DRIVEWAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Construction Specifications
8-2-2: Maintenance And Repair
8-2-3: Penalty
8-2-1: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Generally: Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in
compliance with specifications adopted by the council. (1966 Code § 7.204)
   B.   Grade Surfaces:
      1.   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction on the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway
where the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render
it slippery or hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level. (1966 Code §
7.203)
   C.   Concrete And Brick Driveways: No person, firm or corporation shall
install, construct, or replace a concrete or brick driveway any closer than
three feet (3') from the existing edge of the roadway surface. That portion of
any driveway within three feet (3') of the existing roadway surface shall be
constructed of an aggregate surface or bituminous material with aggregate base
so as to allow for maintenance and future roadway widening. (Ord. 5-2002, 2-5-
2002)
8-2-2: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same in
good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstruction and
openings. (1966 Code § 7.205)
8-2-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966 Code § 7.206;
amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Permit Requirements
8-3-2: Manner Of Excavating
8-3-3: Temporary Sidewalks
8-3-4: Barricades And Lights
8-3-5: Restoration Of Excavated Area
8-3-6: Inspections
8-3-7: Exemptions From Provisions
8-3-8: Penalty
8-3-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to tunnel under or to make an excavation in any street,
alley or other public place in the village without having obtained a permit as
is herein required, or without complying with the provisions of this chapter,
or in violation of or variance from the terms of any such permit. (1966 Code §
7.301)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Applications for such permits shall be made to the clerk, and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the actual
excavating work, and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done. (1966
Code § 7.302)
      2.   Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is
estimated will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration
of the surface of the ground, or until the refill is made ready for the
pavement to be put on by the village, if the village restores such surface
pavement. It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation
unless permission for an extension of time is granted by the council. (1966
Code § 7.310)
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for such permit shall be five dollars ($5.00) for
each square foot, or lineal foot in the case of tunnels. (1966 Code § 7.304;
amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Bond: No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant
therefor has filed with the clerk a bond in the sum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss, liability or
damage that may result or accrue from or because of the making, existence or
manner of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or excavation. Such bond
shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do business in the state of
Illinois as a surety company. (1966 Code § 7.305)
   E.   Deposit: No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant
therefor has deposited with the clerk a cash deposit in the sum of at least one
hundred dollars ($100.00) if no pavement is involved, and at least ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) if the excavation is in a paved area, to ensure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From this deposit
shall be deducted the expense to the village of relaying the surface of the
ground or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the village or
at its expense, and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
or pavement is restored. (1966 Code § 7.306; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Issuance Of Permit: No such permit shall be issued except on order of
the council. (1966 Code § 7.303)
8-3-2: MANNER OF EXCAVATING:
   A.   Compliance With Permit: It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or
tunnel in any way contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit
therefor.
   B.   Bracing: Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of
adjoining ground, and in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere
below the surface any portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   C.   Utility Properties: No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or
conduits in the making of such excavations or tunnel, and notice shall be given
to the persons maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the
commissioner of streets and public improvements when such pipes, cables or
conduits may be endangered or affected by the making of any such excavation or
tunnel before such pipes, cables or conduits shall be disturbed.
   D.   Trees And Shrubs: No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any
tree or shrub or the roots thereof 1 . (1966 Code § 7.308)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-4-4 of this title.
8-3-3: TEMPORARY SIDEWALKS:
If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. (1966 Code § 7.309)
8-3-4: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS 1 :
Any person, firm or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury. (1966 Code § 7.307)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-4 of this title.
8-3-5: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA 1 :
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley or public place in the village shall restore the
surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground.
   B.   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinances and subject to the supervision of the commissioner of streets and
public improvements, and if such work is not done within ten (10) days after
restoration is possible, the village may restore the surface and charge the
cost thereof to the permittee. (1966 Code § 7.311)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  12-6-7 of this code.
8-3-6: INSPECTIONS:
The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall from time to time
inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street,
alley or other public place in the village to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. Notice shall be given to him at least twenty four
(24) hours before the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel
commences. (1966 Code § 7.312; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter relative to securing permits shall not apply to
officers or employees of the village engaged in doing work for the village, nor
to persons or corporations doing work for the village under contract, nor to
persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise or grant from the
village if such franchise provides for the making of excavations and tunnels
without securing a permit therefor. (1966 Code § 7.313)
8-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code § 7.314; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Planting Permit
8-4-2: Removal Permit
8-4-3: Duties Of Utility Companies
8-4-4: Excavations
8-4-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-4-6: Abatement Of Dangerous Trees And Shrubs
8-4-7: Penalty
8-4-1: PLANTING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or shrub in any
public street or parkway or other public place without having first secured a
permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the village clerk, and shall be referred by him to the commissioner of public
property. (1966 Code § 7.501)
8-4-2: REMOVAL PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or
shrub in any street, parkway or other public place without having first secured
a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the commissioner of public property, and shall be referred by him to the
council for approval before permission shall be granted. (1966 Code § 7.502)
8-4-3: DUTIES OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
   A.   Poles And Wires: Any person or company given the right to maintain
poles and wires in the streets, alleys or other public places in the village
shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject,
keep such wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such
places so far as may be possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs
properly trimmed and subject to the supervision of the commissioner of public
property, so that no injury shall be done to the poles or wires or shrubs and
trees by contact. (1966 Code § 7.506)
   B.   Gas Pipes: Any person, firm or corporation maintaining any gas pipe in
the village shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the
subject, keep such pipes free from leaks. (1966 Code § 7.507)
8-4-4: EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible 1 .
(1966 Code § 7.508)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  8-3-2D of this title.
8-4-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Trees And Shrubs: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or
shrub planted in such public place. (1966 Code § 7.503)
   B.   Attaching Advertisements And Notices: It shall be unlawful to attach
any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub in any street, parkway
or other public place. (1966 Code § 7.504)
   C.   Attaching Wires Or Ropes: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or
other rope to any tree without permission of the commissioner of public
property. (1966 Code § 7.506)
8-4-6: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the village lower than eight feet (8') above such sidewalk, street or
other public place or in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting
premises on which such trees or shrubs grow so that the obstruction shall
cease. (1966 Code § 7.505; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows or stands. (1966 Code § 7.505)
8-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code § 7.509; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PARADES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Permit Required
8-5-2: Conditions Of Permit Issuance
8-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, association, firm, corporation, or other entity, public or private,
shall organize, conduct, direct, control, supervise, establish, or lead any
parade within the corporate limits of the village, unless there shall have
first been granted the permit from the village therefor. For the purposes of
this chapter, a parade permit shall be required by any group of three (3) or
more persons, animals, or things who or which intend to walk, ride, traverse,
travel, or be carried, led, or driven in and about the public rights of way of
the village for a common purpose, as depicted and described by signs, posters,
placards, or signboards carried with or worn by them, which said common purpose
shall be any purpose not illegal or obscene. (2003 Code)
8-5-2: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT ISSUANCE:
No permit hereunder shall issue except upon the following terms:
   A.   Application For Permit: A written application therefor shall be
submitted to the village clerk on a form provided by him, signed by the parade
sponsor or a responsible officer thereof, not less than fourteen (14) days
prior to the date of the parade, indicating the purpose and the desired route.
   B.   Permit Fee; Exemptions: A fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be
paid with such application; provided however, that applications in behalf of
charitable, educational, or religious organizations or associations, community
fairs or agricultural expositions, and veterans' organizations shall be exempt
from the payment of such fee.
   C.   Routing Requirements:
      1.   School Or Church Routing: No parade shall be conducted upon a route
within five hundred feet (500') of any school during the school term unless the
school superintendent has consented thereto, nor within five hundred feet
(500') of any house of worship during the hours of any service therein unless
the appropriate official has consented thereto, which consents shall be
submitted along with said application.
      2.   Routing On Public Ways: Parade routing shall be confined to the
public rights of way within the corporate limits of the village and shall not
enter upon any private property or any private or public building. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose And Scope
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-6-4: Dispute Resolution
8-6-5: Indemnification
8-6-6: Insurance
8-6-7: Severability
8-6-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations. (Ord. 11-18, 7-3-2018)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings.
ANTENNA:       Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic radio
               frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE     Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a
CODES:         recognized national code organization or local amendments to those codes,
               including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT:     Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
               A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit to collocate
APPLICATION:   small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the installation of a
               new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any applicable fee for the
               review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR   To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless facilities
COLLOCATION:   on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or utility pole.
               Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as amended: information
COMMUNICATIONS service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended; telecommunications
SERVICE:       service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; mobile service, as
               defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or a wireless service other than
               mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5), as amended; a provider of
SERVICE        information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended; a
PROVIDER:      telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(51), as amended; or
               a wireless provider.
FCC:           The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE:           A one-time charge.
               A building, property, or site, or group of buildings, properties, or sites
               that are either (i) listed in the National Register of Historic Places or
               formally determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the National
               Register, the individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal
HISTORIC       agency to list properties and determine their eligibility for the National
DISTRICT OR    Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i through VI.D.1.a.v. of the
HISTORIC       Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
LANDMARK:      (ii) designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or historic
               district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a preservation
               program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local Government Program
               of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where such certification
               of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office
               is pending.
LAW:           A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
               local ordinance or resolution.
               A small wireless facility that is not larger in dimension than twenty four
MICRO WIRELESS inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in width, and twelve inches (12")
FACILITY:      in height and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than eleven
               inches (11").
MUNICIPAL      A utility pole owned or operated by the village in public rights-of-way.
UTILITY POLE:
PERMIT:        A written authorization required by the village to perform an action or
               initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON:        An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
               association, trust, or other entity or organization.
               The functional division of the federal government, the state, a unit of local
PUBLIC SAFETY  government, or a special purpose district located in whole or in part within
AGENCY:        this state, that provides or has authority to provide firefighting, police,
               ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to respond to and manage
               emergency incidents.
RATE:          A recurring charge.
               The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street, public
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. "Right-of-
               way" does not include village-owned aerial lines.
               A wireless facility that meets both of the following qualifications: (i) each
               antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet in
               volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, this antenna
               and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no
               more than six (6) cubic feet; and (ii) all other wireless equipment attached
SMALL WIRELESS directly to a utility pole associated with the facility is cumulatively no
FACILITY:      more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume. The following types of
               associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
               equipment volume; electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
               demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
               switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power
               and other services.
               A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
UTILITY POLE:  communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
               traffic control, or a similar function.
               Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications between
               user equipment and a communications network, including (i) equipment
               associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio transceivers,
               antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
WIRELESS       comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration. "Wireless
FACILITY:      facility" includes small wireless facilities. "Wireless facility" does not
               include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
               equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or
               fiber-optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles
               or coaxial, or fiber-optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to
               or directly associated with an antenna.
               Any person authorized to provide telecommunications service in the state that
WIRELESS       builds or installs wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless
INFRASTRUCTURE facilities, wireless support structures, or utility poles and that is not a
PROVIDER:      wireless services provider but is acting as an agent or a contractor for a
               wireless services provider for the application submitted to the village.
WIRELESS       A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
PROVIDER:
               Any services provided to the general public, including a particular class of
WIRELESS       customers, and made available on a non-discriminatory basis using licensed or
SERVICES:      unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided using
               wireless facilities.
WIRELESS
SERVICES       A person who provides wireless services.
PROVIDER:
WIRELESS       A freestanding structure, such as a monopole; tower, either guyed or self-
SUPPORT        supporting; billboard; or other existing or proposed structure designed to
STRUCTURE:     support or capable of supporting wireless facilities. "Wireless support
               structure" does not include a utility pole. (Ord. 11-18, 7-3-2018)
 
8-6-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division C.9. regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use,
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements.
      1.   Application Requirements: Wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the village, together with the village's small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved;
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge; and
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
non- discriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
            (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed
application.
            (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   (1)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a non-
discriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the submission
of a completed application.
            (2)   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed
application.
            (3)   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the village. The receipt
of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the village's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            (1)   If the village determines that applicable codes, ordinances
or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            (2)   The village shall document the basis for a denial, including
the specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
village denies an application.
            (3)   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the
village and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after
notice of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional
application fee. The village shall approve or deny the revised application
within thirty (30) days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is
deemed approved. Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30)
days of denial shall require the applicant to submit a new application with
applicable fees, and recommencement of the village's review period.
            (4)   The applicant must notify the village in writing of its
intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis,
which may be submitted with the revised application.
            (5)   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility
pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a master pole attachment
agreement, provided by the village for the initial collocation on a municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the
applicant shall enter into a license supplement of the master pole attachment
agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application:
         a.   Within thirty (30) days after receiving an application, the
village shall determine whether the application is complete and notify the
applicant. If an application is incomplete, the village must specifically
identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed complete if
the village fails to provide notification to the applicant within thirty (30)
days after all documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in the
village's permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the
village.
         b.   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends
the notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         b.   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications:
         a.   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant's
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure.
         b.   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits:
         a.   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless
the village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         b.   If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions
or regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies:
         a.   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         b.   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency's communications equipment.
         c.   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any spectrum licensed by
a public safety agency.
         d.   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR Parts 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 CFR Parts 90.672 through
90.675.
         e.   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   a.   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution
or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole
or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         b.   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         c.   For purposes of this division, the terms "communications space,"
"communication worker safety zone," and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      6.   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in any
village ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements:
         a.   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocate
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the village may propose
that the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the
proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to
use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions and the
alternate location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional
material costs as determined by the applicant.
         b.   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the village,
the applicant shall provide written certification describing the property
rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does
not satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations:
         a.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support structure on
which the small wireless facility is collocated.
         b.   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            (1)   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility
pole, other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in
place on the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or
wireless support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the village, provided the village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
            (2)   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit, variance or administrative waiver in
conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set forth in appropriate
sections of the Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Leland.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures..
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require ai fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with division B.1.d.; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   a.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-
7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public
commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of
the Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of the chapter do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless
facility if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent
with the provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public
Utilities Act.
         b.   For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the
meaning given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any
requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any required permission to
install, place, maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than
small wireless facilities subject to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements:
      1.   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on June 1,2018, remain in effect for all small
wireless facilities collocated on the village's utility poles pursuant to
applications submitted to the village before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      2.   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village
on the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter tor the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two (2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by
notifying the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The
existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination
provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has
collocated on the village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the village before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its
option under this division.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate:
      1.   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located
in a right-of-way that equals (i) two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year or
(ii) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's
use of space on the village utility pole.
      2.   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and
direct costs, the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the
first day after the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or
notice of intent to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment:
      1.   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the
facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after
receipt of written notice from the village notifying the wireless provider of
the abandonment.
      2.   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
      3.   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if
it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider. (Ord. 11-18, 7-3-2018)
8-6-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of LaSalle County, Illinois shall have exclusive jurisdiction
to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 11-18, 7-3-2018)
8-6-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the village with respect to consequential,
incidental or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability. (Ord. 11-18, 7-3-2018)
8-6-6: INSURANCE:
   A.   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Worker's compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   B.   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   C.   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required by the village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village. (Ord. 11-18, 7-3-2018)
8-6-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each invalid
provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable. (Ord. 11-18, 7-
3-2018)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Authority To Turn On Water
9-1-3: Plumbing Requirements
9-1-4: Connection To Water System
9-1-5: Service Pipes
9-1-6: Water Meters
9-1-7: Rates And Charges For Service
9-1-8: Water Use During Building Construction
9-1-9: Resale Of Water
9-1-10: Tampering With System
9-1-11: Penalty
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms in
this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: Shall is mandatory; may is permissible.
GENERAL:
Buffalo Box: A valve box used with curb stop or curb cock.
Curb Cock: A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water main
to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve key to
start or stop flow in the water supply lines of a building. Also called curb
stop.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the works to
maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes "replacement".
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the waterworks will be operated.
Water Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received in
the operation of the water system.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The village council of the village of Leland.
Village: The village of Leland.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
State Loan: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution bond
act and for making such loans as filed with the secretary of state of the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 11-99, 8-7-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
9-1-2: AUTHORITY TO TURN ON WATER:
No water from the village water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the commissioner of public property, or some person
authorized by him to perform this service. (1966 Code § 16.101)
9-1-3: PLUMBING REQUIREMENTS:
No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing does
not comply with the provisions of the plumbing regulations of the village;
provided, that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished
buildings, subject to the provisions of this chapter. (1966 Code § 16.104)
9-1-4: CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Application To Connect: Application for water service connection to the
village water mains must be made at the village hall, by the owner of the
property to be served, upon forms furnished therefor. Such application shall
state the official building number and street name of the premises, the size of
the service line, the approximate location where the water service shall enter
the premises and such other information as may be reasonably required by the
village. (Ord. 10-97, 6-3-1997)
   B.   Connection Fees:
      1.   Single Meter:
         a.   At the time of making application for connection, the applicant
must make payment to the village in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Diameter Of Service Pipe
From Village Water Main    Diameter Of Meter   Fee
To Premises To Be Served
                                            
      1 inch           1 inch       $1,750.00
      11/2 inches      11/2 inches  2,250.00
      2 inches         2 inches     3,000.00
 
         b.   The aforesaid fee shall cover the cost of tapping into the
village water main, the cost of the meter and its installation and the
installation of the curb box.
      2.   Additional Meters: If the application is for multi-family property
requiring more than one meter, the applicant shall pay at the time of
application the following additional fee:
         a.   The additional fee of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per
meter for each additional three-fourths inch (3/4") meter.
      3.   Water Meter Only: If the applicant requires a water meter only, the
fee shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2-06, 4-4-2006)
   C.   Responsibility For Installation And Repair Of Connection:
      1.   Responsibility Of Village: All fittings, pipes and appliances from
the water main to and including the meter and curb box shall remain the
property of the village and shall at all times be accessible to the village and
under its control.
      2.   Responsibility Of Applicant:
         a.   The service line from the curb box or meter to the applicant's
premises shall be laid and maintained by the applicant at the applicant's own
cost. The service line shall be of ample size, and of standard weight and
quality, and all cutoffs, valves, fixtures and appliances furnished by the
applicant shall be maintained in good order and condition.
         b.   All leaks in the service pipe or any other pipe or fixture on the
premises of the applicant shall be immediately repaired. Upon failure to repair
such leak, the service may be discontinued until repairs are made. The village
shall in no event be responsible for maintaining any service line owned by the
applicant, nor for any damages done by water escaping therefrom nor for defects
in lines or fixtures on the property of the applicant. (Ord. 10-97, 6-3-1997)
   D.   Connection Requirements:
      1.   Permit And Notice Required: No connections with a water main shall
be made without a permit being issued and twenty four (24) hours' notice having
been given to the commissioner of public property.
      2.   Supervision: All such connections shall be made by or under the
supervision of the commissioner of public property. (1966 Code § 16.105)
      3.   Prerequisites: Before connection is made with the water distribution
system, the premises to be served must be equipped with a meter and buffalo box
properly installed on the service pipe. When the meter is located within a
building, copper service pipe only shall be installed from the buffalo box to
the meter and shall be at least four feet (4') underground. (1966 Code §
16.105; amd. 2003 Code)
      4.   Inspections: No installation shall be covered until it has been
inspected by the commissioner of public property and found to be satisfactory.
(1966 Code § 16.105)
9-1-5: SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Installation Cost And Supervision: All service pipes from the mains to
the premises served shall be installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the
property to be served or the applicant for the service. Such installation shall
be under the supervision of the commissioner of public property. (1966 Code §
16.201)
   B.   Pipe Specifications 1 : No service shall be installed unless it
conforms to the specifications of the state plumbing code. (1966 Code § 16.202;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Repairs: All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of
buildings shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises
served. The village may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes, and
if this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by
the owner of the premises served. (1966 Code § 16.203)
   D.   Excavations: Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the
same shall be made in compliance with the provisions of the village ordinances
relating to excavations in streets 2 . Provided, that it shall be unlawful to
place any service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any
drainpipe or sewer pipe. (1966 Code § 16.204)
   E.   Shutoff Boxes: Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every
service pipe and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line
where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily
accessible and shall be protected from frost. (1966 Code § 16.205)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  12-6-6 of this code.
2 2. See title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
9-1-6: WATER METERS:
   A.   Metered Water Required: All premises using the village water supply
must be equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by the village but paid
for by the consumer. (1966 Code § 16.301)
   B.   Installation Of Meters: Meters shall be installed in a location that
will be of easy access. The installation of fences or other obstructions so as
to enclose the location of water meters is hereby prohibited. The owner of the
property being served or the current applicant for such service, if different
than the property owner, is hereby required to pay the reasonable cost for the
relocation of such an enclosed water meter to a location of easy access outside
of the fenced in area or otherwise obstructed area of the property. The charge
for such relocation shall be the responsibility of the property owner or
applicant for service, if different than the property owner, and such charge
shall be added to the water bill issued following the relocation of such water
meter. Such charge, if not paid, shall be treated as any other nonpayment of
water bill, including shutoff, lien, and foreclosure, and other penalties as
set forth in this code. (Ord. 6-2002, 2-5-2002)
   C.   Reading Meters: The village treasurer shall read or cause to be read
every water meter used in the village at such times as is necessary that the
bills may be sent out at the proper time. (1966 Code § 16.303)
   D.   Testing Meters: All municipal water meters shall be taken out and
tested upon the complaint of the consumer, upon payment of a fee of two dollars
($2.00). If, upon testing, the meter is not within three percent (3%) of
accurate, it shall be repaired, and the two dollar ($2.00) fee returned to the
consumer. (1966 Code § 16.304)
9-1-7: RATES AND CHARGES FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Rates And Charges Established: Rates for water service subsequent to
September 30, 2013, shall be as follows:
      1.   Service Rates: There shall be a quarterly minimum charge of twenty
dollars ($20.00) against all connections for each three (3) month period, or
any part thereof, in which the village water supply has not been shut off or
disconnected by the water department, which twenty dollars ($20.00) shall be
the flat rate for the use of six thousand (6,000) gallons or less per quarter.
For each one thousand (1,000) gallons or fraction thereof in excess of six
thousand (6,000) gallons per quarter, there shall be an additional charge of:
         a.   Three dollars ($3.00) commencing October 1, 2013.
         b.   Three dollars twenty five cents ($3.25) commencing October 1,
2014.
         c.   Three dollars fifty cents ($3.50) commencing October 1, 2015.
      2.   Late Charge: In addition to the above charges, a late charge shall
be added to all bills not paid within fifteen (15) days of date of billing. The
late charge shall be the greater of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per
quarter of the amount due or twenty five dollars ($25.00) per quarter.
      3.   Additional Charges: In addition to the above charges, costs incurred
by the village in attempting to collect overdue water bills, including, but not
limited to, reasonable attorney fees and recording fees, shall be added to all
bills not paid within fifteen (15) days of the date of billing. (Ord. 03-13, 8-
6-2013, eff. 10-1-2013)
   B.   Liability For Rates And Charges: The owner of the premises, the
occupant and the user of the water service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such premises, and the service to the premises
is provided by the village only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, the occupant and the user of the water service are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the village. (Ord. 2-98, 4-7-1998)
   C.   Bills For Service; Delinquencies:
      1.   Rendition Of Bills; Payments Due: Bills for water used shall be sent
out by the village treasurer and are due February 1, May 1, August 1 and
November 1 of each year, and must be paid on or before the fifteenth of the
month in which they were rendered. (1966 Code § 16.306; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Shut Off For Nonpayment: The water supply may be shut off from any
premises for which the bill, or any part thereof, remains unpaid at the end of
the quarter after it is rendered. When shut off, such service shall not be
renewed except upon payment of a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for turning off
and turning on the water again plus the balance of the bill owing.
No water service will be turned off by the village until notice is given in
writing to the owner and, if there is an occupant or occupants or other user,
to such occupant or occupants or user of the property served by the water
service. The notice shall be given at least forty eight (48) hours before the
water service is to be shut off and shall notify the owner, occupant, or user
that the water will be shut off unless the owner, occupant or user requests a
conference. A request for a conference must be in writing. At the conference, a
person requesting the conference may show cause why the water should not be
turned off. The notice shall be delivered to the owner, occupant or user at
least forty eight (48) hours before the time set out in the notice, or mailed
to the last known address of the owner, occupant, or user at least ninety six
(96) hours before the time set out in the notice. If the owner, occupant, or
user cannot be found, notice shall be posted on the property served by the
service line at least forty eight (48) hours before the time set out in the
notice. The notice shall be in substantially the following form:
         VILLAGE OF LELAND
         LELAND, ILLINOIS
         NOTICE OF INTENT TO SHUT OFF WATER
To:
Please take notice that the water service serving the following described
premises:
(Address or legal description)
is in violation of the municipal ordinance and will be shut off on or after
                  , 2012 at                 o'clock unless you request a
conference on the matter before that time. You may request a conference by
notifying the Village Administrator in writing that you want a conference. Your
conference will be with the Village Administrator. At the conference you must
show cause why the water service should not be shut off or else the water
service will be shut off. If no request for a conference is made, the water may
be shut off at or after the time stated in the Notice.
(Ord. 07-12, 7-3-2012)
      3.   Costs A Lien; Notice Of Delinquency:
         a.   Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered, the village clerk shall file with the county
recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the village claims a lien for this amount, as well as for all
charges for water subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
         b.   If the consumer of water whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of
the premises, and the village clerk has notice of this, notice shall be mailed
to the owner of the premises, if his address be known to the clerk, whenever
such bill remains unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days after it has been
rendered.
         c.   The failure of the village clerk to record such lien claim or to
mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in
subsection C3b of this section. (1966 Code § 16.309)
      4.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid water
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity
authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the name of the
village in any court having jurisdiction over such matters, against any
property for which the bill for water has remained unpaid sixty (60) days after
it has been rendered. (1966 Code § 16.310)
   D.   Review Of Rates: The adequacy of the water service charge shall be
reviewed, not less often than annually, by the commissioner of public property.
The water service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in
local capital costs or operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
   E.   Consumer Requests; Appeals: The method for computation of rates and
service charges established for user charges in this section shall be made
available to a user within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a written request
for such. Any disagreement over the method used and any computations thereof
shall be remedied by the village council within forty five (45) days after
notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
   F.   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
water system shall be deposited in the water account of the water fund. All
such revenues and money shall be held by the village treasurer separate and
apart from any private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
village and deposited not more than ten (10) days after the receipt of the
same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed
by the mayor and council of the village. The village treasurer shall receive
all such revenues from the water system and all other funds and monies incident
to the operation of said system as the same may be delivered and deposit the
same in the account of the fund designated as the "water fund of the village of
Leland". The treasurer shall administer such funds in every respect in the
manner provided by the Illinois municipal code.
   G.   Accounts: The village treasurer shall establish a proper system of
accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the water
system and, at regular annual intervals, shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the true receipts and
disbursements of the water system. In addition to the customary operating
statements, the annual audit reports shall also reflect the revenues and
operating expenses of the water facilities including a replacement cost. The
financial information to be shown in the audit report shall include the
following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
   H.   Access To Records: The Illinois environmental protection agency or its
authorized representative shall have access to any books, documents, papers and
records of the village which are applicable to the village system of user
charges for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of any loan
agreement and rules for any state loan and any special and general conditions
to any state grant. (Ord. 11-99, 8-7-1999)
9-1-8: WATER USE DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
During construction of any building, and before any water meter is installed,
as is herein provided, the contractor so constructing such building may be
permitted to use the village water supply by making application therefor and
paying the flat fee prescribed by the village council. (1966 Code § 16.308)
9-1-9: RESALE OF WATER:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
village water supply to any premises other than that for which application has
been made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency. (1966 Code §
16.106)
9-1-10: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the village council to
tamper with, alter or injure any part of the village waterworks or supply
system, or any meter. (1966 Code § 16.107)
9-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code §§ 16.108, 16.206, 16.311; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Application Of Provisions
9-2-3: Village Policy
9-2-4: Definitions
9-2-5: Summary Of Requirements
9-2-6: Cross Connections Prohibited
9-2-7: Backflow Prevention
9-2-8: Booster Pumps
9-2-9: Investigations And Surveys
9-2-10: Inspections And Maintenance
9-2-11: Confidential Information
9-2-12: Violations
9-2-13: Penalties
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   A.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolation from the customer's water system, contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable quality.
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
water supply system of the village. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-3: VILLAGE POLICY:
The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or backsiphonage
of contaminants through the customer's water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the commissioner of public property (commissioner), an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the commissioner shall give notice to the consumer to install
such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to the
premises. The consumer, after due written notice and within the prescribed time
indicated on the notice, shall install such approved device at his own expense.
Failure or refusal on the part of the consumer to install such device within
the time indicated on the notice shall constitute grounds for discontinuing
water service to the premises until such device has been installed. The
consumer shall retain record of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required herein. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
these regulations:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods of installation approved by
the village based on the Research Foundation for Cross Connection Control of
the University of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American National Standards Institute, American Society of Sanitary Engineers
or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEMS: A source of water outside the village public water
supply system. No connection to the village public water supply system shall be
made with any other water system without the approval of the commissioner or
his designee.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method or type of construction intended
to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for backflow
prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois plumbing code
and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CCDI (CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE INSPECTOR): A person who is a licensed
plumber in the state of Illinois and has successfully completed both written
and performance examination administered by the IEPA.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CONSUMER'S OR CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system serving the premises,
commencing at the point of connection with the village water main.
CONTAMINATION: The introduction into water of microorganisms, chemicals, wastes
or wastewater in a concentration that makes water unfit for its intended use.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves, including tight shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check
valve.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY WITH DETECTOR CHECK: An assembly which measures
water usage for urban fire safety systems.
FIXED AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARDS: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health of the user
that could be expected to result in death or significant reduction in the
quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine all materials, fixtures, piping
and appurtenances, appliances and installations of a plumbing system for
compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890.
LOCAL AUTHORITY: Mayor and village council of the village.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administration code 604.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. "Plumbing" includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building where a person lives, works or assembles.
"Plumbing" includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to and including
pressure tanks in water supply systems. "Plumbing" includes all piping
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building drain and a sanitary
drainage and related ventilation system of any building where persons live,
work or assemble from the point of connection of such building drain to the
building sewer or private sewage disposal system five feet (5') beyond the
foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water for human
consumption.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirement of 35 Illinois administrative
code 604 for drinking or any other domestic purpose.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically or otherwise
contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as to constitute a
health, pollution or system hazard if introduced into the public or a
consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters.
   B.   Process waters.
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   D.   Cooling waters.
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems.
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluid used in
industrial or other processes or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: All mains, pipes and structures owned and/or
maintained by the village through which water is obtained and distributed to
the public, including reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively
or severally, actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing
potable water.
REASONABLE NOTICE: The time interval whereby the commissioner, in the exercise
of good practice, finds it acceptable to order a water consumer to correct an
unprotected cross connection and/or any violation of contamination.
REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE (RPZ): A device
containing a minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves, together
with an automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located
between these two (2) check valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of
normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks shall be less than the
supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential
relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the
pressure between the check valves at less than the supply pressure. The unit
must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the device,
and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The physical connection to the water main including all
fittings and appurtenances through which water is supplied to the consumer.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a consumer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The survey shall be completed on a form supplied by the village.
(Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-5: SUMMARY OF REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice Of Required Backflow Prevention Device; Inspection And Tests:
If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
commissioner, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the commissioner shall give notice at
a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code and
all applicable local regulations, and shall have annual inspection and tests
made of such approved devices as required by the Illinois plumbing code and
local regulations.
   B.   Approval Of Secondary Water Supply: No person, firm or corporation
shall establish or permit to be established or maintain any connection whereby
a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply, other than the regular public
water supply of the village, may enter the supply or distribution system of the
village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
commissioner and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   Surveys And Inspections; Records Kept: It shall be the duty of the
commissioner to cause surveys and inspections to be made of industrial and
other properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual
or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and
inspections shall be made a matter of public record and shall be maintained and
available for review for a period of not less than five (5) years. (Ord. 1-98,
3-3-1998)
   D.   Entry Powers; Duty To Provide Information: The approved cross
connection control device inspector, with proper identification, shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose
of verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the
commissioner, with proper identification, shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the commissioner any information which he may request
regarding the piping system or water use on such property. The refusal to
provide such information, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-
1998; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Violations; Discontinuance Of Service: The water commissioner of the
village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after notice to the
occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection
exists in violation of the precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to
eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply distribution
mains. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Connections between the public water supply system and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No connection shall be permitted between the public water supply system
and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological and chemical
quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency and/or the
village.
   C.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which contamination may
enter the public water supply system. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-7: BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
   A.   Responsibility For Backflow Prevention: It is the responsibility and
financial obligation of the consumer to prevent backflow into the public water
supply system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross connections are removed or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and backsiphonage.
      2.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at least
annually by a person approved by the agency as a cross connection control
device inspector (CCDI). The inspection of mechanical devices shall include
physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions on an
annual basis.
      4.   Testing And Records:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at least annually by a certified CCDI
or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer or commissioner.
         b.   Original records submitted to the commissioner shall be available
for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4(e). These original records shall be maintained by the village.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the
most recent test, name of CCDI and type and date repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of person performing the inspection
or test;
            (3)   Test results/inspection;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Services performed and date completed.
   B.   Required Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water service line to a consumer's water system when, in the judgment of the
commissioner, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system may
exist.
      2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water service line to a consumer's water system where the following conditions
exist:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water system, unless such auxiliary
water system is accepted as an additional source by the commissioner and the
source is approved by the agency and local authority.
         b.   Premises where any substance exists which can create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water supply system.
         c.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment
of the commissioner, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements
which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
         d.   Premises where, because of security requirement or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
         e.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
water line to a consumer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities, unless the commissioner determines that
no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
Car washes.
   Fertilizer/chemical plants.
   Food or beverage processing plants.
   Hospital, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
   Laboratories.
   Lawn sprinkler systems.
   Metal plating industries.
   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear plants.
Sewage treatments plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water pumping
stations.
   C.   Types Of Protection Required:
      1.   The type of protection required shall depend on the degree of hazard
which exists as follows:
         a.   An approved fixed air gap shall be installed where the public
water supply system may be contaminated causing a severe health hazard.
         b.   An approved fixed air gap or an approved reduced pressure zone
principal backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public water
supply system may be contaminated causing a system or health hazard.
         c.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure zone principal backflow prevention device shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could
cause a pollution hazard dangerous to health.
      2.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall
be installed between the fire sprinkler systems connected to the public water
supply system when:
         a.   The sprinkler system contains antifreeze and/or chemical
additives.
         b.   Water may be pumped into the system from another source, and/or
nonpotable water supply can be connected to the sprinkler system.
   D.   Approved Backflow Prevention Devices:
      1.   All backflow prevention devices, methods, installation and
maintenance required by these rules and regulations shall be approved by the
commissioner.
      2.   Approval shall be based on the Research Foundation for Cross
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering or American
National Standards Institute or certified by the American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specifications. A manufacturer's
maintenance manual shall be available on site. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-8: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the commissioner at
least once a year that the device is operable. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-9: INVESTIGATIONS AND SURVEYS:
   A.   Entry Powers: The consumer's premises shall open at reasonable times to
the certified cross connection control device inspector (CCDI) for the
inspection of the presence or absence of cross connection within the consumer's
premises and testing, repair, and maintenance of cross connection control
devices within the consumer's premises.
   B.   Duty To Provide Information: On request by the commissioner or his
designee, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or
systems for water use within the consumer's premises and cross connection
inspection results. The consumer's premises shall be open at reasonable times
for the verification of information submitted by the consumer regarding the
piping system or systems for water use and cross connection inspection results.
   C.   Surveys: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to arrange a
survey to be made on a set period of time not to exceed an annual survey of
water use practices on the consumer's premises to determine whether there are
actual or potential cross connections to the consumer's water system through
which contamination or pollution could backflow into the consumer's or the
public potable water system.
   D.   Compliance With State Law: All cross connection control or other
plumbing inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 320/41, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-10: INSPECTIONS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Schedules Of Inspections, Tests And Maintenance: It shall be the duty
of the consumer, on premises on which backflow prevention devices required by
these regulations are installed, to have inspection, tests, maintenance and
repair made in accordance with the following schedule or more often where
inspections indicate a need or are specified in the manufacturer's
instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation and at least annually thereafter and required
service performed within fifteen (15) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principal backflow prevention devices shall be
tested at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the
manufacturers.
   B.   Performance Of Tests: Testing shall be performed by a person who has
been approved by the agency as competent to service the device. Proof of
approval shall be in writing.
   C.   Test Or Inspection Information On Devices: Each device shall have a tag
attached including the information as required by this chapter.
   D.   Defective Devices: Whenever backflow prevention devices required by
these regulations are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced
at the expense of the consumer within fifteen (15) days or as specified by the
commissioner. Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without written specific
authorization by the commissioner.
   E.   Copies Of Test Results: Copies of all test results shall be forwarded
to the commissioner at the time of each inspection as described in this
chapter. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-11: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
   A.   Water consumers that file reports with the village may request that
portions of a report which may disclose trade secrets or propriety processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public. Confidential portions
shall be made available upon written request to the government agencies for
uses related to this chapter. Portions of a request shall be available for use
by the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the water consumer furnishing the report.
   B.   Any information accepted as confidential shall not be transmitted to
the general public until and unless written notification is given to the
consumer. It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to prove
confidentiality to the village by timely presenting the basis for such claim of
confidentiality. The village shall not be required to make data available to
the public except in accordance with this code and the Illinois freedom of
information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq.
   C.   Nothing herein shall be construed to limit or restrict any consumer
from exercising any right it may have to object to any request by the village
for confidential information from such user. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Water Service Discontinued: The commissioner may deny or discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations
is not installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable to
the commissioner, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has
been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises, or if a low pressure cutoff required by these regulations is not
installed or maintained in working order. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
   B.   Restoration Of Service: Water service to such premises shall not be
restored until the consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or
defects in conformance with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the
commissioner and the required reconnection fee of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) is paid. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Corrective Actions: Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village
from taking such other action as it deems necessary to prevent or remedy a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998)
9-2-13: PENALTIES:
Any water consumer who has violated or failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter or the rules or regulations hereunder shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein,
the village may recover reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporter
fees, and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the
person found to have violated this chapter or the rules and regulations and
permits issued hereunder. (Ord. 1-98, 3-3-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permit Requirements
9-3-2: Excavations For Connections
9-3-3: Prohibited Discharges
9-3-4: Garage Drainage
9-3-5: Surface Water Drainage
9-3-6: Use Of Sewers
9-3-7: Penalty
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to make any connection with any
village sewer without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made to
the clerk and shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of such
connection, the premises to be served, and the specification of such pipe to be
connected and the drain from house to sewer pipe. (1966 Code § 15.301)
9-3-2: EXCAVATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS:
The provisions of the ordinances relating to excavations in streets 1  shall be
complied with in making excavations in streets or other public places for sewer
connections. (1966 Code § 15.302)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 3 of this code.
9-3-3: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any gasoline, benzine, or other
volatile liquid to flow into any public sewer in the village, or to permit any
material which might injure any part of the sanitary sewer system to flow into
it. (1966 Code § 15.304)
9-3-4: GARAGE DRAINAGE:
Floor drains in garages shall be connected with the storm sewer system. Such
drains shall have intercepting mud or grease traps adequate to prevent the flow
of mud or grease into the sewer system. (1966 Code § 15.303)
9-3-5: SURFACE WATER DRAINAGE:
It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any storm water
drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the village, and it shall be
unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain which
discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than eighteen
inches (18") above the ground or pavement. (1966 Code § 15.305)
9-3-6: USE OF SEWERS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any sanitary sewage to flow into any storm sewer
or any storm sewer to flow into any sanitary sewer. (1966 Code § 15.306)
9-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code § 15.307; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Intent And Purpose
10-1-2: Scope
10-1-3: Specifications And Procedures
10-1-4: Community Impact Statement Requirements
10-1-5: Supplementary Community Impact Statement Requirements
10-1-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
A community impact statement (CIS) shall be prepared in accordance with village
requirements. The purpose of the community impact statement is to supplement
site, landscaping, engineering, grading, architectural, and subdivision plans
by providing the village with detailed information about the effect which a
proposed project is likely to have on the community and its environment, and to
list ways in which any adverse effects of such project might be minimized. The
submission requirements under this chapter are in addition to those listed
elsewhere, including, but not limited to, the subdivision ordinances. The
standards and requirements for preparing development plan documents, as
referenced herein and in other village ordinances, shall be used in preparing
appropriate sections of the community impact statement regarding such
documents. The village council may waive the requirement for a community impact
statement where submission of such a study is not warranted due to the nature
and/or scale of the application. (Ord. 5-97, 3-4-1997)
10-1-2: SCOPE:
No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in development or land disturbing
activities within the village or within that contiguous territory located in
LaSalle County lying outside of the corporate limits and within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the village, as indicated on the
official mile and one-half (11/2) zoning map, without first providing a
community impact statement in accordance with the specifications and procedures
hereinafter set forth. Elements of phased projects may be treated as separate
projects with regard to the community impact statement requirements. This
requirement shall not apply to development or activities of the municipal
corporation of the village. (Ord. 5-97, 3-4-1997)
10-1-3: SPECIFICATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Community Impact Statement And Supplementary Community Impact
Statement: The community impact statement submission process is divided into
two (2) phases. Initially, the petitioner submits a community impact statement
which provides basic information regarding the effects of a project. Additional
information may subsequently be required in the supplementary community impact
statement based upon review of the community impact statement and upon the
nature of the project.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: Before filing a community impact statement,
the developer may confer with the official designated by the village council
for the purpose of reviewing the procedures to be followed regarding the
submission of a community impact statement.
   C.   Submission Of Community Impact Statement: The developer shall complete
and file with the official designated by the village council a community impact
statement in conjunction with the submission of development plans. The
applicant shall submit a CIS in accordance with procedures as outlined by the
designated village official. The zoning board of appeals and/or the plan
commission shall review the community impact statement and shall make one of
the determinations listed below. Any appeal of the decision of the zoning board
of appeals and the plan commission shall be made to the designated village
official.
      1.   The zoning board of appeals and/or the plan commission may determine
that additional information is required due to possible impacts on the
community and therefore require the submission of a supplementary community
impact statement or additional information in the community impact statement.
The zoning board of appeals and/or the plan commission shall determine the
scope of issues to be addressed in the supplementary community impact statement
based upon the community impact statement.
      2.   The zoning board of appeals and/or the plan commission may determine
that no additional information beyond the community impact statement is
required with regard to probable impacts on the community and therefore does
not require a supplementary community impact statement.
   D.   Referral: Both the community impact statement and the supplementary
community impact statement (if required) shall be forwarded to the plan
commission and the zoning board of appeals as part of the petitioner's
application. The plan commission or zoning board of appeals may require
additional information during review of the proposal. (Ord. 5-97, 3-4-1997)
10-1-4: COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Property Description: The following material shall be submitted to
provide an accurate description of the subject property:
      1.   Boundary Survey: A boundary survey or survey of record prepared at a
scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The survey
shall include the following material:
         a.   Name of the person or firm responsible for preparation of the
survey.
         b.   Location, width, and name of abutting or adjoining rights of way.
         c.   Legal description of the parcel in a format appropriate for legal
advertisement (including the total acreage of the parcel).
      2.   Location Map: A location map prepared to scale with the subject
property clearly marked.
      3.   Permanent Index Number (PIN): A listing of all the PINs for the
subject property.
      4.   Owner Of Record: Name and address of the owner of record.
      5.   Out Parcel Reference: Notation of surveys and other documents
pertinent to parcels owned by the developer or in which the developer has any
legal interest, but which are not part of the project, and parcels identified
for future subdivision.
      6.   Land Use: Description of the existing land use.
   B.   Project Description: The following material shall be submitted to
provide an accurate description of the proposed project:
      1.   Proposed Land Use Plan: Descriptions shall be provided for project
subareas in mixed use or phased projects. The proposed land use plan shall be
prepared to scale; however, detailed subarea maps at a larger scale than the
land use plan may be required. The following material shall be submitted to
provide an accurate description of the proposed land use plan:
         a.   Identification and description of the land use, including the
size in acres, type and number of residential units to be constructed, project
density, and type and size of nonresidential construction.
         b.   Description of structures, including proposed use, heights, total
square footage, number of bedrooms (for residential units), construction
materials, and other items deemed necessary to accurately describe the proposed
structure.
         c.   Notation of the presence of cafeteria or other food preparation
or processing facilities in order to determine applicability of a sewer and
water surcharge.
         d.   The number of trips generated by the use, the number of off
street and on street parking provided, parking demand expected, handicapped
spaces proposed, and loading spaces.
      2.   Adjacent Land Use: A map indicating the adjacent land uses.
      3.   Adjacent Zoning Classification: A map indicating the adjacent zoning
classifications.
      4.   Project Compatibility:
         a.   A statement describing the compatibility of the proposed project
with adjacent land uses and/or land uses permitted under existing zoning. Items
analyzed shall include, but not be limited to, lighting, noise, mixture of land
uses, building design, screening and shadows (cast by structures over 35 feet
in height). Where potential incompatibilities may exist, mitigation measures
shall be proposed.
         b.   A statement which reviews the appropriateness of the building
design both with regard to the individual structure, as well as in relationship
to the context developed by surrounding buildings and topography. The following
aspects of the building design shall be specifically discussed:
            (1)   Building scale relative to planned development in the area
and permanent neighboring developments.
            (2)   Architectural materials which are durable, suitable for the
type of building and design, as well as demonstrating good architectural
character and harmony with nearby buildings.
            (3)   The appropriate relationship and proportion of building
components to one another.
            (4)   The use of primary and accent colors with regard to their
harmony with other buildings in the area and the limitation of accent colors to
secondary uses on the building.
            (5)   The avoidance of monotony of design through the use of
variation and detail form and setting to provide visual interest.
         c.   A list of visual considerations shall be submitted by the
developer with a site plan which includes an inventory of the existing and
planned areas of high visual interest in the project area. A detailed
description shall be presented which reviews how the owner will design and
locate buildings, and retain or alter existing grades, drainage, and trees in
such a way as to maintain, enhance or create views both within and into the
site. Where possible, topographic features that contribute to the beauty or
utility of a development shall be preserved and integrated into the development
design. Landscape treatment shall be provided to enhance architectural
features, strengthen vistas and develop important axis.
      5.   Construction/Phasing Schedule: A statement of the proposed
construction/phasing schedule shall be submitted. This statement shall include
the following material:
         a.   Estimated starting date of construction.
         b.   Total square footage or total residential units to be built by
type per year or by phase.
         c.   Estimated completion date of construction.
   C.   Environmental Impact Analysis: The following material shall be
submitted to provide an accurate description of the environmental impact of the
proposed project.
      1.   Topography, Drainage And Hydrology: The following material shall be
submitted describing the topography, drainage system, and site hydrology:
         a.   Identification of floodplains, including the delineation of the
floodway and flood fringe, description of flood hazards, and a description of
proposed uses within the floodplain.
         b.   Identification of watercourses within or adjacent to the proposed
project.
         c.   Description and delineation of wetlands.
         d.   A description of the existing drainage system, including the
location and description of all drainage improvements.
         e.   Previous applicable drainage and hydrologic studies.
         f.   Description of existing drainage problems and any anticipated
future drainage patterns.
         g.   Project drainage plan listing all required improvements and
easements for both on site and off site drainage facilities, including
improvements necessary to satisfy detention requirements.
         h.   An assessment of the impact of the project on community drainage
facilities, including a description of methodologies proposed to minimize
adverse effects.
      2.   Soils: The following material shall be submitted describing soil
conditions:
         a.   Soils map describing the types of soil found at the site.
         b.   Identification of building constraints and description of
methodology to be used to overcome constraints.
         c.   Reference to recent soils tests conducted at this site.
         d.   A summary of the appropriate county soil and water conservation
district soils report, with the full report attached.
      3.   Water Quality: The following material shall be submitted to assess
the project impact on water quality:
         a.   Identification of methodologies to be utilized to control erosion
and sedimentation during construction of the project.
         b.   Certification by the project developer that the project will
conform to all water quality requirements of the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
      4.   Flora And Fauna: The following material shall be submitted to assess
the impacts of the project on plants and animals:
         a.   Endangered Plant And Animal Species: The following material shall
be submitted describing endangered species: species inventory of endangered,
threatened, or unique plants, reptiles, amphibians, mammals, birds, waterfowl,
and other wildlife located in the project area.
         b.   Tree Survey: A tree survey of all existing trees over three
inches (3") in diameter.
      5.   Noise: The following material shall be submitted to assess the noise
impacts of the project:
         a.   Identification of existing major generators of noise which may
potentially affect the project, including noise generated by aircraft,
vehicular traffic, industrial activities, commercial activities, etc.
         b.   Identification of noise sensitive facilities located in the
vicinity of the project, including hospitals, schools, nursing homes, churches,
parks, housing for the elderly, etc.
         c.   Identification of proposed permanent noise generators located
within the project and their anticipated noise levels, including a statement
describing noise generation resulting from construction sources.
         d.   An assessment of the impact of the project on adjacent land uses
and conversely the impact of adjacent land uses on the project, including a
description of the methodologies to be utilized to alleviate excessive noise
levels both during and after construction.
         e.   Certification by the project developer that the project will
conform to all noise control requirements of the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
      6.   Archaeological/Historical Significance: Material shall be submitted
identifying and describing the significant archaeological/historical aspects of
the project site.
      7.   Recycling: A recycling plan shall be submitted if required by this
code or ordinance.
   D.   Revenue And Expenditure Impact Analysis: The following material shall
be submitted to provide a description of the impact of the project on community
revenues and expenditures:
      1.   Financial Description: The following material shall be submitted
describing the financial aspects of the proposed project:
         a.   Statement of the estimated total project value, equalized
assessed value, and the multiplier used. Estimated selling price for
residential units.
         b.   Current land assessment of the property.
         c.   Identification of all corporate parties financially involved in
the project, including the identification of the principal officers and all
major stockholders owning over five percent (5%) stock.
         d.   Identification of parcels to be subdivided from the total tract
for future sale or separate financing.
      2.   Estimated Revenue Generation: Identification of the total amount of
estimated revenue to be generated by the project. This estimate shall include
the following material:
         a.   Identification and description of sources and amounts of revenue
generated by the project. This description shall include, but not be limited
to, real estate tax revenues, vehicle tax revenues, motor fuel tax revenues,
water and sewer use revenues, annexation fees, and miscellaneous contributions
to various government agencies.
         b.   Identification and description of those revenues specifically
available to the village and each of the other taxing bodies to which the
project is subject.
      3.   Estimated Village Expenditures: Identification and description of
the sources and total amounts of estimated village revenue expenditures, based
on village requirements and demands created by the project.
      4.   Revenue/Expenditure Evaluation: Summarization, in tabular format, of
the estimated revenue generation and village revenue expenditures required
above. Where a negative financial impact to the village is indicated,
justification of the project, in terms of specific community benefits, shall be
provided. (Ord. 5-97, 3-4-1997)
10-1-5: SUPPLEMENTARY COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Additional information may be required in the supplementary community impact
statement based upon the community impact statement and development plans
submitted. The scope of issues to be addressed in the supplementary community
impact statement shall be determined by the zoning board of appeals and/or plan
commission.
   A.   Market Analysis: A statement identifying the need for the proposed
project shall be submitted. The statement shall include the following material:
      1.   Residential: Analysis of the impact the proposed project would have
on the existing housing market, the availability of housing for persons
currently residing in the village, the availability of housing for persons
desiring to relocate in the village, and the availability of housing for the
elderly and persons of low and moderate income.
      2.   Nonresidential: Analysis of the impact the proposed project would
have on similar existing and proposed projects located in the village and,
conversely, an analysis of the impact similar existing and proposed projects
would have on the proposed project.
      3.   Employment: Analysis of the impact the proposed project would have
on both permanent community employment rates and temporary community employment
rates during construction phases of development. This analysis shall include
total number of employees.
   B.   Air Quality: The following material shall be submitted to assess the
project impact on air quality:
      1.   Description of the existing air quality based on measurements taken
at county and state monitoring stations.
      2.   A list of both temporary and permanent pollution emission sources,
including a description of type and estimate of amount of pollutants to be
emitted by nonresidential projects.
      3.   A list of air pollution control equipment to be utilized to meet air
pollution control regulations, including a description of methodologies to be
used to minimize air pollution during construction of the project.
      4.   Certification that all local, state, and federal air pollution
standards will be met.
   C.   Archeological/Historical Significance:
      1.   An analysis of any existing structures by period of construction,
historical significance, architectural style, condition, present use, assessed
valuation, location, identification of structures deemed desirable for
preservation, and an evaluation of the impact the proposed project would have
on the historic aspects of the site.
      2.   A description of archeological resources which may have existed at
the site, including data as to artifacts or evidence of prehistoric or early
historic occupation or utilization which may have been uncovered at or near the
project site.
      3.   An assessment of the degree to which development of the site would
inhibit or eliminate the possibility of significant archaeological finds.
   D.   Public Service Impacts: The following material shall be submitted to
provide a description of the impact of the project on public services:
      1.   Village Services: The following material shall be submitted
describing the impact of the project on village services:
         a.   Village Administration: Assessment of the impact of the project
on village administrative services, including the identification of additional
manpower and equipment requirements due to any increase in demand created by
the project.
         b.   Police Department: Assessment of the impact of the project on law
enforcement services, including the identification of additional manpower and
equipment requirements due to any increase in demand created by the project.
         c.   Fire And Ambulance Service: Assessment of the impact of the
project on fire protection and ambulance services, including the identification
of additional manpower and equipment requirements due to any increase in demand
created by the project, location of the nearest fire station, location of
proposed fire hydrants, and topographical or other constraints for
accessibility of firefighting equipment.
         d.   Water Production/Distribution System: Assessment of the impact of
the project on the water production/distribution system, including the
identification of the projected demand of water (estimated daily or monthly
usage), location of existing and proposed distribution lines, proposed primary
sources of water and emergency water sources, and the description of
improvements to be installed by the developer, including a looped water main
system.
      2.   The following material shall be submitted describing the treatment
of sanitary waste material generated by the project:
         a.   Estimated quantity of sewage to be generated by the project and a
description of any unusual or toxic waste products to be discharged from
nonresidential uses, including a description of any methods of pretreatment to
be conducted on site.
         b.   Location and description of existing sewer lines and improvements
in the immediate area which will serve the project.
         c.   Method of sewage treatment and disposal.
      3.   Public Utilities: Description of all existing and proposed public
utility systems (i.e., gas, electric, telephone, etc.) available to service the
project, including the identification and location of existing lines and
capacities, existing easements and proposed easements both on site and off
site.
      4.   Solid Waste: The following material shall be submitted describing
solid waste collection and disposal:
         a.   Estimated amounts and types of solid waste material to be
generated by the project. This figure shall be determined by using acceptable
generation rates for the various land uses.
         b.   Description of storage containers to be utilized, including
identification of their site location, type and location of materials used to
screen waste collection areas, and identification of anticipated special pickup
requirements.
      5.   Recreation System: The following material shall be submitted
describing the recreation system:
         a.   Location and description of existing and proposed public
recreation facilities available to serve project residents.
         b.   Location and description of proposed public recreation facilities
to be located within the project, including identification of sites to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, improvements to be installed by the
developer, and the percentage of the project to be permanent public open space.
         c.   Location and description of proposed private recreation
facilities to be located within the project. The maintenance provider for the
proposed facilities should be identified.
      6.   Library System: Identification of the library district serving the
project and the location of the nearest library facility shall be identified
and submitted.
      7.   School System: The following material shall be submitted describing
the school system:
         a.   Identification of school districts serving the project.
         b.   Letter from the school districts serving the project confirming
that adequate capacity and services are available for the students associated
with the project.
      8.   Transportation Network: The following material shall be submitted
describing the transportation network:
         a.   Reference to traffic or transportation studies conducted for this
project.
         b.   Transportation network map identifying the existing on site and
adjacent off site transportation network, including street names, right of way
widths, pavement widths, current traffic counts, and proposed plans for
widening roads.
         c.   Traffic generation counts for automobiles and trucks and their
directional distribution.
         d.   Proposed transportation plan, including right of way dedications,
pavement width, sidewalk, bikeways, lighting, and identification of those
improvements to be installed by the developer.
         e.   Analysis of levels of service under the proposed transportation
plan, including generation of figures for approved, but not yet constructed,
projects located in the vicinity of the project.
         f.   Identification and location of both internal and external traffic
control measures, including traffic control signals, traffic control signs, and
identification of those improvements to be installed by the developer.
         g.   An assessment of the impact of the project on the existing
transportation network, including a description of methodologies to be utilized
to alleviate any adverse impacts. The supporting documentation of trip
reduction methods to reduce travel during peak hours is required if proposed as
part of the impact reduction assessment. Plans shall comply with the trip
reduction requirements of the clean air act.
      9.   Additional Information: Any other information deemed necessary to
evaluate the potential impacts of a project may be requested by the zoning
board of appeals and/or plan commission. (Ord. 5-97, 3-4-1997)
CHAPTER 2
SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION OR PAYMENT IN LIEU
SECTION:
10-2-1: Calculation Of Land Required For School Site Dedication
10-2-2: Location Of Site
10-2-3: Conveyance Of Site
10-2-4: Criteria For Requiring Cash Contribution In Lieu Of School Site
10-2-5: Reservation Of Additional Land
10-2-6: Combining With Adjoining Developments
10-2-7: Intergovernmental Agreements; Indemnity
10-2-1: CALCULATION OF LAND REQUIRED FOR SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION:
For any land located within the corporate limits of the village or within the
territory contiguous to the corporate limits and within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the corporate limits in LaSalle County as indicated on the official
map or latest revision thereof, as a condition of approval of a final plat of
subdivision, or of a final plat of a planned unit development, the developer or
subdivider shall be required to dedicate land for school sites to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or to make a
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both,
at the option of the village council with advice from the school district, in
accordance with the following criteria:
   A.   Student To Land Ratio: The ultimate number of students to be generated
by a subdivision or planned unit development or new residential development
shall bear directly upon the amount of land required to be dedicated for a
school site. The land dedication requirement shall be determined by obtaining
the ratio of: 1) estimated number of students from the development to be served
over the, 2) number of students to be served in each school classification
stated herein, and then applying such ratio to the, 3) recommended number of
acres per student population for a school site for each school classification
as stated herein. The product thereof shall be the acres of land deemed
necessary to have sufficient land for school sites to serve the estimated
increased number of students.
   B.   School Classification And Site Size: Classifications and size of school
sites within the village shall be determined in accordance with the following
criteria, which is consistent with the minimum site recommendation of the
Illinois office of education standards as adopted by the Illinois state board
of education:
 
Classification By Grade Number Of Students Acres Of Land Per Student Population
Elementary grades K–6 260                7.6
Junior high grades 7–870                 20.7
High school grades 9–1140                31.4
 
   C.   Population Density: The estimated number of students generated by a
development shall be determined in accordance with the population density
factors contained in the most current revised table of estimated ultimate
population per dwelling unit published by the Illinois school consulting
service, said table found at the end of this section. This population density
table is generally indicative of current and short range projected trends in
family size for new construction. The student populations listed in said table
shall be used for all calculations required unless a written objection is filed
by the subdivider or developer with the village clerk and the superintendent of
the school district prior to approval of the final plat. In the event a written
objection is filed, the subdivider or developer shall file a demographic study
showing the estimated additional student population to be generated from the
subdivision or planned unit development or other development. The final
determination of the student population density to be used in the calculations
shall be made by the village council based upon the demographic information
submitted by the subdivider or developer and upon such other demographic
information as may be submitted by the school district or others. (Ord. 26-96,
8-6-1996)
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
Children Per Unit
Type               Elementary     Junior High     Total          High School     Adults Total
Of   Preschool     Grades K – 6 Grades 7 – 8  Grades K – 8 Grades 9 – 12 18+    Per
Unit 0 – 4 Years 5 – 11 Years 12 – 13 Years 5 – 13 Years 14 – 17 Years Years  Dwelling
                                                                                        Unit
Children Per Unit
                         Elementary     Junior High     Total          High School     Adults Total
Type Of    Preschool     Grades K – 6 Grades 7 – 8  Grades K – 8 Grades 9 – 12 18+    Per
Unit       0 – 4 Years 5 – 11 Years 12 – 13 Years 5 – 13 Years 14 – 17 Years Years  Dwelling
                                                                                              Unit
Detached
Single-                                                                                  
Family
                                                                                        
2 bedroom  0.102         0.127          0.036           0.163          0.020           1.694  1.979
3 bedroom  0.254         0.376          0.108           0.484          0.142           1.921  2.801
4 bedroom  0.413         0.601          0.172           0.773          0.303           2.142  3.631
5 bedroom  0.236         0.424          0.121           0.545          0.212           2.637  3.630
                                                                                        
Attached
Single-                                                                                  
Family
                                                                                        
1 bedroom  -0-           -0-            -0-             -0-            -0-             1.068  1.068
2 bedroom  0.092         0.134          0.038           0.172          0.037           1.776  2.077
3 bedroom  0.231         0.234          0.067           0.301          0.066           1.805  2.403
4 bedroom  0.332         0.388          0.112           0.500          0.168           2.243  3.243
                                                                                        
Apartments                                                                               
                                                                                        
Efficiency -0-           -0-            -0-             -0-            -0-             1.360  1.360
1 bedroom  -0-           -0-            -0-             -0-            0.001           1.749  1.753
2 bedroom  0.042         0.096          0.027           0.123          0.042           1.614  1.821
3 bedroom  0.050         0.275          0.078           0.353          0.116           2.499  3.018
 
Note: There are only three sufficient categories provided in this chart.
Because of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family
dwelling units, only one category is provided. The same is true with
apartments; thus, only one category. Because of the relatively short history of
some newer types of detached and attached single-family units, individual
evaluations may be necessary.
Number                   
   Copyright 1993
   Illinois School Consulting Service
   Associated Municipal Consultants, Inc.
   Naperville, Illinois
(Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
10-2-2: LOCATION OF SITE:
School sites dedicated pursuant to this chapter shall be located in accordance
with plans and/or standards adopted by the village with advice from the school
district. (Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
10-2-3: CONVEYANCE OF SITE:
Any lands to be conveyed as a school site pursuant to this chapter shall be
conveyed to the school district within thirty (30) days of the recording of the
final plat. Said conveyance shall be in accordance with the following criteria:
   A.   Title To Site: All sites shall be conveyed to the school district
either by warranty or trustee's deed. The subdivider or developer shall be
responsible for conveying good, merchantable title, free of encumbrances,
unless the encumbrances are waived by the school district, to the school
district. The subdivider or developer shall be responsible for the payment of
all real estate taxes to the date of conveyance.
   B.   Topography, Grading And General Suitability: The slope, topography and
geology of the dedicated site as well as its immediate surroundings must be
suitable for its intended purpose. The site must be free of environmental and
archaeological concerns.
   C.   Site Improvements: All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready
for full service of electrical, water, sewer, drainage, and streets as
applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made therefor.
   D.   Sale Of Land: When, in the opinion of the school district, any parcel
of land conveyed pursuant to this chapter becomes unnecessary, unsuitable, or
inconvenient for the uses of the school district, such parcel may be sold as
provided by applicable law. The proceeds of such sale shall be used in a manner
consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued until said
conveyance has been made. (Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
10-2-4: CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF SCHOOL SITE:
When the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical or when the available land is inappropriate for a school site, as
recommended by the school district, the village shall require the subdivider or
developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land dedication required.
Said cash contribution shall be paid to and held in trust by the school
district solely for use in the acquisition of land for a school site to serve
the immediate or future needs of children from that subdivision or development
or for improvements to any existing school site which already serves such
needs. Improvements under this section shall be liberally construed and shall
include, but not be limited to, the development of parking lots; sidewalks;
traffic signals; arterial streets; collector streets; internal roadways;
connections with sewer, water and electrical lines; playgrounds; recreation
grounds; and athletic fields. Improvements shall also include the purchase of
any materials, goods or equipment necessary to said development and
construction. Improvements shall further include the construction of buildings,
additions to existing school buildings, remodeled or renovated instructional
and noninstructional spaces in classrooms and purchase of prefabricated
classroom units to be used at the school site.
   A.   Determination Of Land Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land
dedication for school site shall be based on the fair market value of an acre
of land in the area improved as specified in this chapter. It has been
determined that the present fair market value of such improved land in and
surrounding the village is thirty five thousand dollars ($35,000.00) per acre.
The land value shall be used in making any calculation in this chapter unless
the subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the event of
any such objection, the subdivider or developer, at his/her own cost, shall
obtain and submit an independent appraisal from an MAI designated appraiser
indicating the fair market value of such improved land in the area of the
proposed development. Final determination of said fair market value per acre of
such improved land shall be made by the village council in its sole discretion
based on such information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from
other sources which may be submitted to the village council by the school
district or others. (Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
   B.   Alternate Cash Contribution Per Lot: In order that subdividers and
developers for property situated within the village limits or within the one
and one-half (11/2) mile area in LaSalle County and contiguous to the village
and thereby subject to this chapter shall be assessed no more than subdividers
and developers for property located outside of such area, but within Leland
community unit school district no. 1 and thereby subject to the LaSalle County
subdivision regulations ordinance adopted by the LaSalle County board, the cash
contribution in lieu of land dedication shall be the lesser of the calculations
set forth in subsection
10-2-1A of this chapter or the amount properly payable under the aforesaid
county ordinance, which is currently six hundred dollars ($600.00) per platted
lot. (Ord. 30-96, 10-1-1996)
   C.   Time And Manner Of Payment: The cash contribution required herein shall
be paid at the time of request for approval of a final plat of subdivision or
planned unit development. No building permit shall be issued until said payment
has been made. Payments hereunder shall be payable to the Leland community unit
school district no. 1, shall be received by the village clerk and shall be
immediately remitted to the Leland community unit school district no. 1.
   D.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And Fee: There will be situations in
subdivisions or planned unit developments when a combination of land dedication
and a contribution in lieu of land are both necessary. These occasions will
arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision
falling within the school location shall be dedicated as a site as aforesaid,
and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any additional
land that would have to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the school site has already been acquired and only a
small portion of land is needed from the development to complete the site. The
remaining portions shall be required by dedication, and a cash contribution in
lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
10-2-5: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the plans of the village call for a larger school site in a particular
proposed subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required
to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall, if so
determined by the village council, be reserved for subsequent purchase by the
school district; provided, that such acquisition is made within one year from
the date of approval of the final plat. (Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
10-2-6: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, a school site which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be
combined with dedications from adjoining developments in order to produce
usable school sites without hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 26-96, 8-
6-1996)
10-2-7: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS; INDEMNITY:
Upon request of the village and within thirty (30) days thereof, and prior to
receiving a dedication of land or a cash contribution in lieu of land pursuant
to this chapter, the school district shall execute an intergovernmental
agreement with the village in which the school district agrees to indemnify and
hold the village harmless, including all associated costs and reasonable
attorney fees incident to any suits filed in which the validity or application
of any section of this chapter is challenged. The selection of counsel to
defend any such action shall be by the mutual agreement and consent of the
village and the school district. (Ord. 26-96, 8-6-1996)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Compliance Permit Requirements
10-3-2: Foundation Heights
10-3-3: House Numbering
10-3-4: Building Permit And Fee
10-3-1: ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Fee Required; Scope: No building or structure shall be
erected, reconstructed, altered, enlarged, or moved until a zoning compliance
permit as required by the zoning ordinance of the village shall have been
applied for in writing and the applicable zoning compliance permit fee, as set
forth herein, shall have been paid. This requirement shall be applicable within
the corporate limits of the village and that contiguous territory located in
LaSalle County lying outside the corporate limits and within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the village.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application shall be in accordance with
section
11-13-3 of this code and such other pertinent ordinances. (Ord. 3-05, 7-5-2005)
   C.   Schedule Of Fees: The following fees shall be charged for zoning
compliance permits for erection, reconstruction, alteration, enlargement or
moving as indicated:
Commercial and industrial               $1,500.00
Residential:                             
   Accessory structures              150.00
   Dwelling structure                600.00
   Fences costing less than $500.00  40.00
   Fences costing $500.00 or greater 150.00
   Sheds under 144 square feet       40.00
   Sheds of 144 square feet or great 150.00
Rural and agricultural:                  
   Accessory structures              150.00
   Dwelling structure                600.00
   Fences costing less than $500.00  40.00
   Fences costing $500.00 or greater 150.00
   Sheds under 144 square feet       40.00
   Sheds of 144 square feet or great 150.00
 
(Ord. 7-05, 11-1-2005)
10-3-2: FOUNDATION HEIGHTS:
Unless approved to the contrary by the village engineer or village building
inspector, the foundation of every residence, garage or other structures
located within the corporate limits of the village shall be planned and
constructed in such a manner that the top of the foundation shall be no greater
than two feet (2') higher than the elevation of the centerline of each road
abutting the property upon which such structure is located. Any person, firm,
or corporation who constructs any structure in violation of the provisions of
this section shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 27-96, 8-6-1996; amd. 2003 Code)
10-3-3: HOUSE NUMBERING:
   A.   House Numbers Required: All lots, buildings and structures in the
village shall be numbered in accordance with this section. (1966 Code § 5.401)
   B.   Chart: The village clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street
number of every lot in the village, which chart shall be open for inspection by
anyone interested therein. (1966 Code § 5.402)
   C.   Duty To Provide Number; Location: It shall be the duty of the owner and
occupant of every house in the village to have placed thereon, in a place
visible from the street, figures showing the number of that house. Any person,
firm or corporation failing to so number any house owned or occupied by him, or
if, after receiving notice to do so from the village clerk, shall fail to do
so, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first day, and a new fine may be
imposed for each additional day.
   D.   Duty to Provide Identification of Individual Units: It shall be the
duty of the owner and occupant of every multifamily building and other multi-
unit buildings in the village to have placed on the entrance to each individual
apartment, living unit, or other unit in readily visible form an identification
number or letter distinguishing each individual apartment, living unit, to
other unit in that particular building, such as Unit A, or Apartment 1, or the
like. Any person, firm, or corporation failing to so identify any apartment,
living unit or other unit owned or occupied by such owner or occupant, who
after receiving notice to do so from the Village Clerk, shall fail to comply
with this Section, shall be fined not less than twenty-five ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first day that such
failure continues, and a new fine may be imposed for each additional day that
such refusal continues. (1966 Code § 5.403; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 05-A, 5-7-
2019)
10-3-4: BUILDING PERMIT AND FEE:
In order to establish compliance with sections
9-1-4, "Connection To Water System",
9-1-5, "Service Pipes", and
9-1-6, "Water Meters", of this code and section
10-3-2, "Foundation Heights", of this chapter and compliance with other
nonzoning related provisions of this code, each person, firm, or corporation
prior to constructing a structure regulated by the aforesaid provisions located
within the village shall be required to apply for a building permit and to pay
in addition to any other fees required by this code, a building permit fee in
the amount of eight hundred dollars ($800.00). Failure to comply with the above
may result in the issuance of a stop order. (Ord. 3-05, 7-5-2005)
CHAPTER 4
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Definition
10-4-2: Dangerous Buildings Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
10-4-3: Abatement Procedures
10-4-4: Remedies
10-4-5: Penalty
10-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dangerous buildings", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants thereof
or to those of neighboring structures.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction or other cause, is liable to cause injury or damage by
collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure.
   D.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because of
its condition or because of lack of doors or windows, is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure. (1966 Code § 18.301)
10-4-2: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village, and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. Any dangerous building in the
village is hereby declared to be a nuisance 1 . (1966 Code §§ 18.301, 18.302)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2-2K of this code.
10-4-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Statement Of Dangerous Condition: Whenever the commissioner of public
health and safety shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the
village is a dangerous building, he shall file a written statement to this
effect with the village clerk.
   B.   Notice To Abate: The clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be
served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by
registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it, and that the condition must be remedied at once.
Such notice may be in the following terms:
To                                   (Owner- occupant of premises) of the
premises known and described as
                                                    .
You are hereby notified that (describe building) on the premises above
mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by                           .
The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition.)
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
                          will proceed to do so.
   C.   Failure To Abate; Abatement By Village: If the person receiving the
notice has not complied therewith or taken an appeal from the determination of
the officer or employee finding that a dangerous building exists, within ten
(10) days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by personal
service or registered mail, the commissioner of public health and safety may,
upon orders of the council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
dangerous building. (1966 Code § 18.303)
   D.   Suit To Collect Costs: If the owner or the individual responsible for
the dangerous building fails or neglects to pay the village abatement costs,
suit shall be instituted against the owner or individual responsible in the
name of the village and against the owner or individual responsible in any
court of competent jurisdiction to recover the costs of abating the dangerous
condition, together with the costs of such suit. (2003 Code)
10-4-4: REMEDIES:
   A.   The village council may demolish, repair, or enclose or cause the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the territory of the village and may
remove or cause the removal of garbage, debris and other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials from those buildings.
   B.   The village council shall apply to the circuit court of the county: 1)
for an order authorizing action to be taken with respect to a building if the
owner of the building, including the lienholders of record, after at least ten
(10) days' written notice by mail so to do, have failed to put the building in
a safe condition or to demolish it; or 2) for an order requiring the owner of
record to demolish, repair, or enclose the building or to remove garbage,
debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials from
the building. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the
owner of the building, including the lienholders of record, is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person in whose name the real estate was
last assessed is sufficient notice under this section.
   C.   The cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal, including
court costs, attorney fees, and other costs related to the enforcement of this
section, is recoverable from the owner of the real estate or the previous
owner, or both, if the property was transferred during the ten (10) day notice
period and is a lien on the real estate. A notice of lien shall be filed with
the county recorder of deeds.
   D.   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a
description of the real estate sufficient for its identification; 2) the amount
of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and 3) the date when the
cost and expense was incurred. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the
owner of or persons interested in the property after the notice of lien has
been filed, the lien shall be released.
   E.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the village council
may petition the circuit court to have property declared abandoned under 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1 if:
      1.   The property has been tax delinquent for two (2) or more years or
bills for water service for the property have been outstanding for two (2) or
more years;
      2.   The property is unoccupied by persons legally in possession; and
      3.   The property contains a dangerous or unsafe building. (2003 Code)
10-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter, or
permitting any dangerous building, or any building or structure to remain in a
dangerous condition without remodeling as above provided for, after it has been
damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value, shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), per day, for each offense. (1966 Code § 18.304; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Permit Requirements
10-5-2: Lights And Warning Devices
10-5-3: Public Utility Wires
10-5-4: Fire Alarm Wires And Poles
10-5-5: Penalty
10-5-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall move any building
on, through, or over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the
village without having first obtained a permit from the zoning administrator.
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made in
writing to the zoning administrator and shall state thereon the proposed route
and the number of days it is intended that the building should occupy any
portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. (1966 Code §
18.501; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Bond Required: Every person, firm or corporation applying for a permit
under this chapter shall submit with his application a bond in the sum of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00) conditioned on his compliance with all the
provisions of this chapter, and agreeing to pay, and holding the village
harmless from, any claim which may be made against it by reason of the
occupation of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place by the building
or structure moved. (1966 Code § 18.503)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-13-3 of this code.
10-5-2: LIGHTS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Public Ways: Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or
structure which is being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the
public engineer so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion
of the street which is so blocked.
   B.   Buildings Being Moved: The person, firm or corporation moving any
building through the streets shall keep warning signs and lanterns or lights at
night on the building so as to guard against any person or vehicle from
colliding with it. (1966 Code § 18.504)
10-5-3: PUBLIC UTILITY WIRES:
Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires or cables of a public
utility in moving a building, the terms of any special or franchise ordinance
governing shall apply, and the bond therein specified shall be given. If no
such terms apply, then the council shall estimate the expense of fixing the
wires and the bond to be given to cover this. (1966 Code § 18.505)
10-5-4: FIRE ALARM WIRES AND POLES:
When any moving building shall approach any fire alarm wire or pole which shall
be endangered by the moving of the building, it shall be the duty of the mover
to notify the chief of the fire department at least twenty four (24) hours
before reaching such wire or pole so that they may be removed or cared for by
the authorities of the village. (1966 Code § 18.506; amd. 2003 Code)
10-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1966
Code § 18.507; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; JURISDICTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as, referred to, or cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE,
VILLAGE OF LELAND, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
In accordance with state law 1 , this title regulates structures and land uses
in order to preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare through implementation of the village comprehensive plan 2 . More
specifically, this title is intended to assist in achieving the following
objectives: (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate sites
in order to maximize communitywide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
   B.   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial, and industrial areas, and to gradually eliminate
nonconforming uses and structures;
   C.   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout the
village;
   D.   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air, and privacy for the
occupants of all buildings;
   E.   To protect property from damage caused by fire, flooding, poorly
controlled storm water runoff, and adverse soil and topographical conditions;
   F.   To provide adequate and well designed parking and loading space for all
buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public streets
and highways;
   G.   To guide the provision of water mains, and other utilities and
services, and to reduce the initial costs and future maintenance expenses
thereof;
   H.   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of all
the regulations set forth herein; and (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   I.   To clearly and concisely explain the procedures for obtaining
variances, conditional use permits, amendments, and the like. (Ord. 92-09, 4-
14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
2 2. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
The following territory shall be subject to the provisions of this title:
   A.   That territory located within the corporate limits of the village; and
   B.   That contiguous territory located in LaSalle County lying outside of
the corporate limits and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate
limits of the village, as indicated on the official mile and one-half (11/2)
zoning map. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
In construing the intended meanings of terminology used in this title, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them
in section
11-2-2 of this chapter unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms
not defined in section
11-2-2, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, shall have their
standard English dictionary meanings.
   B.   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   C.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   D.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   E.   The term "shall" is mandatory; the term "may" is discretionary.
   F.   The term "the village" shall mean the village of Leland, Illinois.
   G.   The words "lot", "parcel", "tract", and "site" shall be synonymous.
(See definition of Lot in section
11-2-2 of this chapter.)
   H.   The words "extend", "enlarge", and "expand" shall be synonymous. (See
definition of Enlarge in section
11-2-2 of this chapter.)
   I.   The words "abutting", "adjacent", and "contiguous" shall be synonymous.
(See definition of Abutting in section
11-2-2 of this chapter.)
   J.   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches (6") or more shall be deemed one foot (1').
   K.   References to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections
within that section; but a reference to a particular subsection designates only
that subsection.
   L.   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABUTTING: Having a common lot line or district line.
ACCESS WAY: A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing vehicular
access to an off street parking or loading area.
ACCESSORY USE: Any structure or use that is:
   A.   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use which
it serves;
   B.   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal structure or use served; and
   C.   Located on the same lot of record as the principal structure or use
served.
ADMINISTRATOR: The official appointed by the mayor/president of the village
with the advice and consent of council to administer this title, or his
representative. (Synonymous with "zoning administrator".)
AGRICULTURE: See definition of Farm.
AISLE: A vehicular trafficway within an off street parking area used as a means
of access/egress from parking spaces.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
ALTER: To change the size, shape, or use of a structure.
AMENDMENT: A change in the provisions of this title (including those portions
incorporated by reference), properly affected in accordance with state law and
the procedures set forth herein.
ANCHOR: Any approved device to which a mobile home is tied down to keep it
firmly attached to the stand on which it is placed.
ASPHALTIC CONCRETE: A mixture of petroleum byproducts and gravel used for
paving to form a smooth, permanent surface. "Asphaltic concrete" does not mean
"oil and chip".
ATTACHED: As applied to buildings, means having a common wall and/or a common
roof.
BASEMENT: A story having one-half (1/2) or more of its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A private, owner occupied residence providing
temporary overnight accommodations and breakfast in a residential dwelling
actually occupied by the owner as his/her full time residential dwelling and is
not intended to allow for hotel, motel, boarding house, lodging room or food
service establishments.
BLOCK: An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers, or ways
(except alleys, pedestrianways, or exterior boundaries of a subdivision unless
the exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way), or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way,
waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The zoning board of appeals of the village.
BOARDING HOUSE: A residential building or portion thereof, other than a motel
or hotel, containing lodging rooms for accommodation of three (3) to ten (10)
persons who are not members of the keeper's family, and where lodging or meals
or both are provided by prearrangement and for definite periods, but not on an
overnight or per meal basis to the transient public.
BUFFER STRIP: An area of land, undeveloped except for landscaping, fences,
etc., used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious effects of
the use on the adjacent lot.
BUILDING: Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed or
used to shelter persons or personal property.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average grade at the
front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or
to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys, towers, cooling towers,
and similar projections (other than signs) shall not be included in calculating
building height.
BUILDING LINE: The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating the
minimum open space required between the front of a structure and the street
right of way.
BULK: Any one or any combination of the following structural or site design
characteristics:
   A.   Size or height of structure.
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or other structures.
   C.   Lot area.
   D.   Yards or setbacks.
CENTERLINE: A. The centerline of any right of way having a uniform width.
   B.   The original centerline, where a right of way has been widened
irregularly.
   C.   The new centerline, whenever a road has been relocated.
CLINIC: An establishment wherein licensed physicians or dentists practice
medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured persons
is not provided.
CLUB/LODGE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT: Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN 1 : The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the village
to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the community.
The "comprehensive plan" includes, but is not limited to, plans and programs
regarding the location, character, and extent of highways; bridges; public
buildings; utilities; schools; residential, commercial or industrial land uses;
parks; drainage facilities; etc.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that has unusual operational, physical, or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. Conditional uses commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this title to regulate development of a conditional use.
CONFORMING: In compliance with the applicable provisions of this title.
CONVENIENCE SHOP: Any small retail commercial or service establishment offering
goods/services primarily to the residents of a particular multiple-family
complex, mobile home park, or similar development.
CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER: A legally binding order issued by the administrator in
accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect compliance with this
title.
DAYCARE CENTER: See definition of Nursery School.
DETACHED: As applied to buildings, means surrounded by yards on the same lot as
the building.
DEVELOP: To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
DIMENSIONS: Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
DISTRICT, ZONING: A portion of the territory of the village wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots,
and uses under the terms of this title.
DRIVE IN RESTAURANT: An establishment principally used for the sale of fast
order food. "Fast order food" means food that is:
   A.   Primarily intended for immediate consumption;
   B.   Available after a short waiting time; and
   C.   Packaged or presented in such a manner that it can be readily eaten
outside the premises where it is sold.
DRIVE IN THEATER: A tract of land developed with facilities for projecting
motion pictures on an outdoor screen for viewing from the patrons' automobiles
parked on the premises.
DRIVEWAY: A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or off
street parking area.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels, or other
accommodations for the transient public.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing three (3)
or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling containing one dwelling unit and
intended for the occupancy of one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling containing two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family. A "dwelling unit" always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
EASEMENT: A right to use another person's real property for certain limited
purposes.
ENCLOSED: As applied to a building, means covered by a permanent roof and
separated on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed
exterior walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
ENLARGE: To increase the size (floor area, height, etc.) of an existing
principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an existing
use.
ERECT: To build, construct.
ESTABLISHMENTS: Either of the following:
   A.   An institutional, business, commercial, service or industrial activity
that is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
   B.   An institutional, business, commercial, service or industrial activity
that occupies a portion of a building such that:
      1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
      2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of the
building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
EXISTING: Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of this
title.
FAMILY: One person, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, or not more than three (3) unrelated persons, maintaining a
common household in a dwelling unit.
FARM: A tract of land used for the growing and storage of the usual
agricultural products such as grain, vegetables, and fruit, as well as for the
raising thereon of horses, cattle, sheep, swine and poultry. "Farm" includes
the utilization of land for one or more of the above uses and includes dairy
farms. The term also includes the necessary operations incident to treating or
storing produce. Any tract on which the principal use is the raising of fur
bearing animals, such as minks, rabbits, muskrats, etc., shall not be
considered a "farm". The term encompasses the farm house and accessory uses and
structures.
FLOOD ELEVATION, REGULATORY: The elevation of the most severe flood that, on
the basis of corps of engineers' data, may be expected to occur once every one
hundred (100) years.
FLOODPLAIN AREA: The area adjacent to a watercourse and its tributaries having
an elevation equal to or lower than the regulatory flood elevation. Tracts of
land less than ten (10) acres in area that, naturally or by landfill, have an
elevation higher than the regulatory flood elevation shall be included in the
floodplain area if they are surrounded by land in the floodplain area.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors
of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from
the center of the common walls of attached buildings. "Gross floor area"
includes basement floors; attic floor space; halls, closets, stairwells; space
devoted to mechanical equipment; and enclosed porches.
FRONTAGE: The lineal extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
GREENHOUSE: See definition of Nursery.
HEREAFTER: Any time after the effective date of this title.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any aspect of a business, profession, or occupation conducted
for gain or support within any dwelling or on any residential premises.
HOSPITAL: An institution devoted, on an around the clock basis, to the
maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment, or care
of members of the general public suffering from disease, injury, or other
abnormal physical conditions. The term "hospital" includes sanitariums but
excludes institutions operating solely for the treatment of insane persons,
drug addicts, and alcoholics, and convalescent/nursing homes.
INTENSIFY: To increase the level or degree of.
INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more public rights of way
(generally streets) meet.
JUNKYARD: A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon, that is
used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing, disassembling,
or handling waste or scrap and equipment not in operable condition (or parts
thereof), and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags, and rubber tires. A lot on
which three (3) or more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be deemed a
junkyard. A "junkyard" includes an automobile wrecking yard.
KENNEL: Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than three
(3) dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age
are kept.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
LOT: A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate or
future) of transfer of ownership or development. "Lot of record" is a lot whose
location and dimensions are located on a plat of survey or other document
recorded with the county recorder of deeds. A "lot" may or may not coincide
with "lot of record".
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and rear
lines of a lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot having at least two (2) adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or structures,
including accessory buildings or structures.
LOT DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The lot boundary abutting the street.
LOT LINE, REAR: An interior lot line which is most distant from and most nearly
parallel to the front lot line.
LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS: Refers to the lot area, width, and depth requirements of
the applicable district.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines; such lot
lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to the
side lot lines.
MAINTENANCE: The routine upkeep of a structure, premises, or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep said structure in sound condition.
MATERIALLY: As applied to the impact of one thing on another, means
significantly or substantially.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit that has the following characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy containing sleeping accommodations,
flush toilet, tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and
electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
   B.   A structure of vehicular, portable design, built on a chassis and
designed to be moved from one site to another, and to be used with or without a
permanent foundation.
   C.   Arrives at site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling unit complete
with major appliances and ready for occupancy except for minor incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location of foundation supports, connection
to utilities and the like.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any parcel of land consisting of three (3) or more acres upon
which two (2) or more mobile homes, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes,
are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodation. A "mobile home space" means the area within a mobile home park
designed for the accommodation of one mobile home. Mobile home sites approved
as conditional uses for agricultural-labor housing are not considered mobile
home parks.
MODULAR HOME: A dwelling unit not completely factory built or assembled, that
when assembled takes on all the indication of a residential home in that it has
siding, shingled roof and is completely attached to a solid permanent
foundation and not on jacks or wheels. In addition, a "modular home" is defined
as a home that is constructed and placed on the owner's land with the intent
that the structure could not or would not be relocated.
NONCONFORMING: As applied to a lot, structure, or use, means: a) lawfully
existing on the effective date of this title; but b) not in compliance with the
applicable provisions hereof.
NUISANCE: Any thing, condition, or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
NURSERY: A tract of land on which trees, shrubs, and other plants are raised
for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An establishment for the part time care and/or instruction at
any time of day of four (4) or more unrelated children of preelementary school
age.
NURSING HOME: A building used as a medical care facility for persons who need
long term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
OFFICE: Any building or portion thereof in which the business (usually clerical
and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or professional
person is transacted.
PARKING AREA/LOT, OFF STREET: Land that is improved in accordance with this
title and used primarily for the storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of
charge or for compensation. An "off street parking area", depending on the
circumstances of its use, may be either a principal use or an accessory use.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: An area at least twenty feet (20') long and ten feet
(10') wide within an off street parking area or garage, used for the storage of
one passenger motor vehicle.
PERMITTED USE: Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a particular
district, provided it conforms with all the requirements applicable to said
district.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, organization, or corporate body.
PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of the village 2 .
PLOT: A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof which
is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
PREMISES: A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE: The main structure erected on or the main use
occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure or
use.
PROPERTY LINE: See definition of Lot Line.
RECONSTRUCT: As applied to nonconforming structures, means to rebuild after
partial or total destruction.
RECREATIONAL CAMP: A facility with permanent housing facilities (i.e., cabins)
or with pads and/or electric and water hookups for recreational vehicles or
tents.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type portable structure, without permanent
foundation, which can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as
temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping and travel use and
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers
and self-propelled motor homes; and the term shall also include motorcycles,
snowmobiles, utility trailers, and all-terrain vehicles.
REFUSE: Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial wastes.
RELOCATE: To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
REPAIR: To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
RESTRICTIVE: Tending to keep within prescribed limits.
RETAIL: Refers to the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer rather
than to another business.
RIGHT OF WAY, PUBLIC: A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has dedicated
to the village or to another unit of government for streets and alleys.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
SANITARIUM: See definition of Hospital.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A tract of open land used for the permanent disposal of
refuse in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois environmental
protection agency. At a "sanitary landfill", the refuse is periodically covered
with topsoil.
SCREENING: Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences, etc., used as a means of visual
and noise control.
SERVICE STATION: A building and premises or portion thereof designed and used
for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil, and automotive
parts, supplies, and accessories. A "service station" may include facilities
for washing vehicles and for making minor automotive repairs.
SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT: Any use or establishment wherein services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a street line and: a) the
nearest wall of a building or side of a structure facing such street line; or
b) the edge of the area of operation of a principal use involving no building
or structure.
SETBACK LINE: See definition of Building Line.
STABLE: A structure, situated on the same lot as a dwelling, and designed or
used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling, but
not for hire.
STOP ORDER: A type of corrective action order used by the administrator to halt
work in progress that is in violation of this title.
STREET: A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term "street"
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
STREET, PRIVATE: Any street providing access to abutting property that is not
maintained by and dedicated to the village or other public entity.
STRINGENT: Binding, exacting.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are structures,
but not all structures are buildings.
STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY: Any structure that is not attached to a permanent
foundation.
TEMPORARY USE PERMIT: A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of this
title and valid for not more than one year, which allows the occupation of a
temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
TOPOGRAPHY: The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
TRAVEL TRAILER: See definition of Recreational Vehicle.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: See definition of Recreational Camp.
USE: The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is designed,
arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
USE VARIANCE: A type of amendment (not variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
title.
UTILITY SUBSTATION: A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant, etc.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size, setbacks, or
other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
WHOLESALE: Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to another
business.
YARD: Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted in this
title and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
YARD, FRONT: A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot lines,
and the building line.
YARD LINE: A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
yard in question extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point
than the required depth or width of said yard.
YARD, REAR: A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines, and the
rear yard line.
YARD, SIDE: A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line,
side yard line, and side lot line.
ZONING MAP: The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning districts,
and incorporated into this title by reference. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd.
Ord. 95-2; Ord. 15-99, 12-7-1999; Ord. 9-2002, 6-4-2002; 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
2 1. See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-3-1: Districts Established
11-3-2: Official Zoning Maps
11-3-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
11-3-4: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
11-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to implement the regulatory scheme of this title so as to achieve the
objective as identified in chapter 1 of this title, the entire village and that
contiguous territory located within LaSalle County lying outside the corporate
limits and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the
village is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
District Designation
District                  Designation
                          
Single-family residence   R-1
Single-family residence   R-2
Multiple-family residence R-3
Central business          B-1
Highway business          B-2
Industrial                I
Rural                     RU
Agriculture               AG
 
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-3-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS:
   A.   Official Maps Established: The boundaries of the listed zoning
districts are hereby established as shown on the official zoning maps of the
village. There are two (2) official zoning maps: the village zoning map and the
mile and one-half (11/2) zoning map. These official maps including all
notations and other information thereon, are hereby made a part of this title
by reference. The official zoning maps shall be kept on file at the village
hall. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   B.   Annual Publication 1 : In accordance with state law 2 , the zoning
administrator shall publish the zoning map of the village not later than March
31 of each year, said map to clearly show the existing zoning uses, divisions,
restrictions, regulations, and classifications for the preceding calendar year.
However, no map shall be published for any calendar year during which there
have been no changes in zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations or
classifications. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-13-1B5 of this title.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-19.
11-3-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In determining with precision what territory is actually included within any
zoning district, the zoning administrator shall apply the following rules:
   A.   Where a district boundary, as indicated on the zoning map,
approximately follows any of the features listed below on the left, the
corresponding feature on the right shall be deemed the district boundary:
 
Centerline of any street, alley, or highway  such center line
Lot line                                    such lot line
Railroad tracks                             right of way line of such tracks
Stream                                      center of such stream
Section lines, quarter section lines, quarter- such lines
quarter section lines, survey lines   
 
   B.   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is legally vacated, the
zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-3-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Upon the effective date of this title, whenever any territory is annexed to the
village, the village council shall determine its district classification at the
time of annexation. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Compliance With Provisions
11-4-2: Unlisted Uses Prohibited
11-4-3: Temporary Uses
11-4-4: Accessory Uses
11-4-5: Meeting Minimum Requirements
11-4-6: Access Required
11-4-7: Lots With Multiple Frontages
11-4-8: Permitted Intrusions Into Yards
11-4-9: Exceptions To Height Limits
11-4-10: Septic Systems
11-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Structures: No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used,
occupied, enlarged, altered, relocated, or reconstructed except in conformity
with the provisions of this title.
   B.   Land: No land shall be used, occupied, or altered except in conformity
with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-4-2: UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED:
Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or conditional within
a particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district. However, if the village council, following consultation with the
zoning administrator, zoning board of appeals and plan commission, finds the
unlisted use is similar to and compatible with the listed uses, they may allow
such use by amending this title in accordance with section
11-13-9. The village council decision shall become a permanent public record,
and any unlisted use that they approve shall thereafter have the same status as
listed uses. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-4-3: TEMPORARY USES:
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this title, no temporary structure
shall be used or occupied for any purpose, and no land shall be used for any
temporary enterprise, whether for profit or not for profit, unless a temporary
use permit has been obtained. Temporary use permits are valid for one year only
unless properly renewed. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-4-4: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Attachment To Principal Structure: If an accessory use is attached to
the principal structure, it shall be considered part of such principal
structure.
   B.   Permitted Accessory Uses: Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted
in a particular zoning district if such accessory use is: (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-
1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Accessory to an existing principal structure or use that is allowed
in that zoning district as of right (permitted uses) or by virtue of the fact
that a conditional use permit has been granted; and (Ord. 95-2; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   In compliance with the restrictions set forth in subsection C of
this section.
   C.   Accessory Use Restrictions:
      1.   Height: No accessory use shall be higher than:
         a.   Fifteen feet (15') in any residential district; or
         b.   One hundred feet (100') in any agricultural district; or
         c.   Twenty five feet (25') in any other zoning district.
      2.   Setbacks: Except as specifically provided in section
11-4-8 of this chapter, no accessory use in any zoning district shall be
located in any part of any yard (front, side, or rear) that is required because
of the setback regulations of such district; provided, that in any residential
district, an accessory use may be located as close as five feet (5') to the
side lot line and/or rear lot line, but not closer than ten feet (10') to any
principal building on an adjoining lot.
      3.   Rear Yard Coverage: In any residential district, accessory uses
shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of a required rear yard.
      4.   Use As Dwelling: Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the zoning jurisdiction of the village. (Ord.
92-09, 4-14-1992)
      5.   Design And Materials: Garages, sheds, and other accessory structures
of this type must have exterior design and exterior materials similar to or
compatible with the primary structure. No building permit shall be issued
unless plans complying with this subsection C5 are submitted. (Ord. 95-2)
      6.   Garage-Area Ratio: The dimensions of any garage constructed in a
residential district shall not exceed a "garage-area ratio" of ten percent
(10%). The "garage-area ratio" is defined as the ratio of the square footage of
total garage area to the square footage of the lot remaining after deducting
the square footage of the primary structure from the square footage of the lot.
This limitation upon the size of a garage is in addition to other restrictions
provided for in this subsection. (Ord. 5-98, 7-7-1998)
11-4-5: MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
Except as specifically provided elsewhere in this title, every lot must meet
the minimum area, minimum dimensions, and minimum setback requirements of the
district in which it is located independently; that is, without counting any
portion of an abutting lot. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-4-6: ACCESS REQUIRED:
No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has permanent
easement of access to, a public street or a private street. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-
1992)
11-4-7: LOTS WITH MULTIPLE FRONTAGES:
Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall meet
the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on every
side having frontage. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-4-8: PERMITTED INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS:
To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without violating the minimum setback
requirements:
   A.   All Required Yards: In all required yards, the following shall be
permitted:
      1.   Open terraces not over four feet (4') above the average level of the
adjoining ground but not including a permanently roofed- over terrace or porch;
      2.   Awnings and canopies; steps four feet (4') or less above grade which
are necessary for access to a lot from a street or alley;
      3.   Chimneys projecting twenty four inches (24") or less into the yard;
      4.   Arbors and trellises; and
      5.   Flagpoles.
   B.   Front Yards: One-story bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less
into the yard, and overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or
less into the required yard.
   C.   Rear Yards:
      1.   Enclosed, attached, or detached off street parking spaces.
      2.   Open off street parking spaces.
      3.   Accessory shed, tool rooms, and similar buildings or structures for
domestic or agricultural storage.
      4.   Recreational and laundry drying equipment;
      5.   Balconies, breezeways and open porches, one-story bay windows
projecting three feet (3') or less into the required yards, and overhanging
eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or less into the required yard.
      6.   In any residence district, no accessory building shall be nearer
than five feet (5') to the side and rear lot line nor nearer than ten feet
(10') to any principal building on an adjoining lot.
   D.   Side Yards: Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the required
yard for a distance not exceeding forty percent (40%) of the required yard
width, but in no case exceeding three feet (3'). (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-4-9: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS:
Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads,
fire towers, antennas, or other necessary appurtenances commonly constructed
above the roofline shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height limitations
of the district in which they are located if they comply with all other
pertinent ordinances of the village. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
11-4-10: SEPTIC SYSTEMS:
In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people
live, work, or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage
in accordance with the following requirements. The zoning administrator shall
not issue a building permit unless he or she is satisfied these requirements
will be met: (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   A.   Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 225/1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended; and (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-
1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Illinois private sewage disposal code 1  as promulgated by the Illinois
department of public health, as now or hereafter amended; and
   C.   Pertinent, current regulations issued by the Illinois environmental
protection agency; and
   D.   Pertinent, current regulations issued by the LaSalle County health
department or DeKalb County health department, whichever is applicable; and
   E.   Applicable codes and ordinances of the village. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/7.
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 AND R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-5A-1: Narrative
11-5A-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-5A-3: Permitted Uses
11-5A-4: Conditional Uses
11-5A-5: Limitation On R-2 Development
11-5A-6: Parking
11-5A-1: NARRATIVE:
In the R-1 and R-2 single-family residence districts, land is principally used
for, or is best suited for, detached single- family dwellings and related
educational, religious, and recreational facilities. The regulations applicable
to each single-family residence district are intended to stabilize and preserve
sound existing neighborhoods developed at varying densities. The differing
regulations are also intended to promote the development of a range of new
single-family housing that is appropriate for persons with different social
needs and income levels. The village citizens are proud of their rural heritage
and believe that good sized lots will preserve that image. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-
1992)
11-5A-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   One Principal Building Per Lot: In the R-1 and R-2 districts, only one
principal building shall be erected on any lot.
   B.   Table Of Regulations: Every principal building erected in any R-1 or R-
2 district shall conform to the applicable requirements indicated in the table
below:
Requirements  R-1  R-2
Requirements                      R-1                       R-2
Minimum lot area                 15,000 square feet       8,450 square feet
Minimum lot width                100 feet                 65 feet
Minimum lot width for a cul-de-  40 feet at right of way  n/a
sac
Minimum lot depth                150 feet                 130 feet
Minimum setbacks:                                         
1. From front lot line           30 feet                  25 feet
2. Side yards:                                            
  Minimum total setback from    20 feet                  15 feet
   both side lot lines
  Minimum setback from either   8 feet                   5 feet
   side lot line
3. From rear lot line            25 feet                  20 feet
Maximum building height          35 feet                  35 feet
Minimum gross floor area: Each single-family dwelling hereafter erected shall
contain at least 1,200 square feet of living area for a one-, two-, or three-
bedroom dwelling, plus at least an additional 200 square feet of living area
in the unit as a whole for each additional bedroom. Dwellings of more than
one story in height shall contain at least 800 square feet of living area on
the ground floor. Split level and bi-level dwellings shall be computed with
the entire living area requirements contained on the uppermost levels.
 
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5A-3: PERMITTED USES:
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Government uses of the village.
Libraries.
Parks, playgrounds.
Single-family dwellings, detached.
Accessory uses in accordance with section
11-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5A-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Cemeteries.
Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief activity a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Daycare centers, nursery schools.
Golf courses, regulation size.
Government uses other than those of the village.
Home occupations (section
11-10-2 of this title).
Hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums.
Medical and dental offices and clinics.
Multiple-family housing.
Schools, public or private, elementary or secondary.
Two-family dwellings. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5A-5: LIMITATION ON R-2 DEVELOPMENT:
Except for those areas zoned R-2 upon the adoption of this title as set forth
in the zoning map, it is the policy of the village that the R-2 classification
is not appropriate for future residential development. Accordingly, petitions
requesting expansion of the present R-2 district or creation of an additional
R-2 district will be denied. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5A-6: PARKING:
Other than temporary parking of a motor vehicle, a motor vehicle shall be
parked:
   A.   In an enclosed garage;
   B.   In an off street parking space in the rear yard at least ten feet (10')
wide, twenty feet (20') long with at least seven feet (7') of vertical
clearance. No more than two such parking spaces shall be allowed per lot
without a conditional use permit.
   C.   In a front or side yard, only on a driveway.
   D.   Temporary parking of a motor vehicle, other than as specifically
allowed herein, shall be allowed no more than seventy-two (72) consecutive
hours.
   E.   Parking between the front line of any portion of the building and
street should be limited to private passenger vehicles, and only one of the
following: pickup trucks, vans or similar type vehicles, or a commercial
vehicle when owned by or issued to the occupant, except semi tractors, semi
tractor trailers, construction equipment and any vehicle with a gross weight in
excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds.
   F.   On corner lots, parking between the street and building shall be
limited as set forth immediately above.
   G.   In side and rear yards, only one of the following shall be allowed:
recreational vehicles including motorized home, boat trailer with or without a
boat mounted on it, but no stand alone boat or unmounted boat; commercial
vehicles when owned by or issued to the occupant, except semi-tractors, semi-
tractor trailers, construction equipment, and any vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight in excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds.
   H.   A motor vehicle that is in an inoperative condition, or not licensed,
or not insured, shall not be allowed on any residential property for more than
thirty (30) days unless it is in a totally enclosed garage. All major repairs
shall be performed within an enclosed garage in residential area.
   I.   Any hard surface parking space on the village right-of-way, if
necessary to be removed due to street or utility work, material will only be
replaced by the village to the extent of gravel surface.
   J.   As to the commercial vehicle described and permitted in divisions E.
and G. above, only one such vehicle shall be allowed per lot, whether parked in
the front, side yard or rear yard. (Ord. 06-21, 9-7-2021)
ARTICLE B. R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-5B-1: Purpose And Intent
11-5B-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-5B-3: Permitted Uses
11-5B-4: Conditional Uses
11-5B-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The R-3 multiple-family residence districts are established to stabilize and
conserve existing neighborhoods that consist of multiple-family dwellings as
well as single-family dwellings. This district classification is also intended
to promote the development of comparable new areas in order to accommodate all
persons desiring this type of residential development. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5B-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Single- And Two-Family Dwellings: Detached single-family and two-family
dwellings erected in the R-3 districts shall comply with section
11-5A-2 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   All Other Buildings: All other principal buildings shall conform to the
following requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot area: 7,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
      2.   Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
      3.   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.
      4.   Minimum setbacks:
         a.   From front lot line: 30 feet.
         b.   Side yards:
            (1)   Minimum total setback from both side lot lines: 20 feet.
            (2)   Minimum setback from either side lot line: 8 feet.
            (3)   From rear lot line: 35 feet.
      5.   Maximum building height: 45 feet.
      6.   Minimum gross floor area: Multiple-family dwellings shall contain at
least 675 square feet of living area per dwelling unit.
      7.   Parking: See chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5B-3: PERMITTED USES:
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Daycare centers, nursery schools.
Government uses of the village.
Libraries.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Parks, playgrounds.
Schools, public or private, elementary or secondary.
Single-family dwellings, attached or detached.
Two-family dwellings.
Accessory uses in accordance with section
11-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-5B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief activity a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Convenience shops (e.g., small drugstore, food store, laundromat); but only if
on the ground floor of a multiple-family dwelling.
Government uses other than those of the village.
Home occupations (see section
11-10-2 of this title).
Hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums.
Medical and dental offices and clinics.
Utility substations (see section
11-10-5 of this title). (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 6
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6A-1: Narrative
11-6A-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6A-3: Use Restrictions
11-6A-4: Permitted Uses
11-6A-5: Conditional Uses
11-6A-1: NARRATIVE:
The B-1 central business district encompasses the concentrated pedestrian
oriented commercial area of the village. Stores and other facilities providing
a wide range of retail goods and services to the general public may be located
within this district. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6A-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
Every principal building erected in the B-1 central business district shall
conform to the minimum requirements indicated below:
   A.   Minimum lot area: 3,000 square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: 30 feet at the established building line.
   C.   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
   D.   Minimum setbacks: Generally none required except as necessary to
achieve compliance with applicable off street parking and loading requirements.
However, any lot abutting a residential district shall conform to the front and
side setback requirements of such district.
   E.   Maximum building height: 60 feet. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6A-3: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Retail Only: Every commercial or service establishment located in this
district shall deal directly with consumers. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   B.   Unenclosed Activities: In this district, a conditional use permit is
required to conduct any commercial, service, or storage activities outside a
completely enclosed building. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Refuse Containers: All refuse generated by any establishment located
within this district shall be stored in tightly covered containers placed in a
visually screened area.
   D.   Screening: Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence, or closely planted
shrubbery) at least six feet (6') high and of sufficient density to completely
block the view from the adjacent residential property shall be installed.
   E.   Parking: See chapter 11 of this title.
   F.   Signs: See section
11-10-8 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6A-4: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of this district (section
11-6A-3 of this article) are observed, the following uses are permitted:
Auditoriums, meeting rooms, and other places of assembly.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs and lodges.
Commercial establishments, except those listed in section
11-6A-5 of this article.
Government uses of the village.
Libraries, museums.
Mass transit facilities.
Offices.
Service establishments, except those listed in section
11-6A-5 of this article.
Accessory uses in accordance with section
11-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6A-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of this district (section
11-6A-3 of this article) are observed, the following uses may be allowed by
conditional use permit:
Any use that involves commercial, service, or storage activities conducted
outside completely enclosed buildings.
Any use, such as drive in restaurants, drive in banks, service stations, etc.,
that offers goods or services directly to customers waiting in parked vehicles,
or that sells food or beverages for consumption on the premises in parked motor
vehicles.
Assembly, restricted production and repair, provided use restrictions (section
11-6A-3 of this article) are complied with.
Dwelling units if located above the first story.
Hospitals, medical/dental clinics.
Liquor establishments.
Utility substations. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE B. B-2 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6B-1: Intent
11-6B-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-6B-3: Use Restrictions
11-6B-4: Permitted Uses
11-6B-5: Conditional Uses
11-6B-1: INTENT:
The B-2 highway business district is intended to accommodate and regulate strip
commercial developments and compatible uses. Since such businesses, both retail
and wholesale, draw their patrons from people in cars, they typically require
direct access to major streets and large lots for off street parking and
loading. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6B-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: 100 feet at the established building line.
   C.   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet.
   D.   Minimum setbacks:
      1.   From front lot line: 40 feet.
      2.   Side yards:
         a.   Minimum total setback from both side lot lines: 50 feet.
         b.   Minimum setback from either side lot line: 20 feet.
      3.   From rear lot line: 35 feet.
   E.   Maximum structure height: 45 feet. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6B-3: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Repairs Indoors: All repair and maintenance services shall be conducted
within completely enclosed structures. Storage areas may be open to the sky,
but shall be enclosed by walls or solid fences at least eight feet (8') high.
   B.   Refuse Containers: All refuse generated by facilities located within
this district shall be stored in tightly covered containers placed in visually
screened areas. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   C.   Screening: Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
residential district, screening (a wall, solid fence, or closely planted
shrubbery) at least six feet (6') high but not more than eight feet (8') high
and of sufficient density to completely block the view from the adjacent
residential property shall be installed. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
   D.   Parking: See chapter 11 of this title.
   E.   Signs: See section
11-10-8 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6B-4: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of this district (section
11-6B-3 of this article) are observed, the following uses are permitted:
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs and lodges.
Commercial establishments, any type, including drive in facilities. Such uses
as the following are especially appropriate in this district:
   Bowling alleys.
   Furniture and appliance sales.
   Greenhouses.
   Lumber and building sales.
   Miniature golf courses.
   Mobile homes and recreational vehicle sales.
   Motor vehicle sales.
Government uses of the village.
Offices.
Service establishments, any type, including drive in facilities. Such uses may
include the following:
   Animal hospitals.
   Banks and other financial institutions.
   Miniature golf courses.
   Motels.
   Motor vehicle services.
   Restaurants.
   Service stations. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-6B-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of this district (section
11-6B-3 of this article) are observed, the following uses may be allowed by
special use permit:
Research and development facilities not involving explosives, flammable gases
or liquids, or live animals.
Utility substations.
Warehousing and wholesaling of any goods except explosives, flammable gases or
liquids, or live animals. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 7
I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7-1: Intent
11-7-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7-3: Use Restrictions
11-7-4: Permitted Uses
11-7-5: Conditional Uses
11-7-1: INTENT:
The I industrial district is intended to provide for areas where light
industry, research facilities, warehouses, and wholesale businesses may locate
without detriment to the remainder of the community. In these areas, a
satisfactory correlation of factors required by such uses exists or can be
readily achieved. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-7-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: 125 feet at the established building line.
   C.   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet.
   D.   Minimum setbacks:
      1.   From front lot line: 25 feet.
      2.   From any side lot line: 25 feet.
      3.   From rear lot line: 25 feet.
   E.   Maximum structure height: 60 feet. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-7-3: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: No production, processing, cleaning,
servicing, testing, repair, sale, or storage of goods, materials, or equipment
shall unreasonably interfere with the use, occupancy, or enjoyment of
neighboring properties or the community as a whole. Unreasonable interferences
include, but are not limited to, excessive traffic congestion, loud or shrill
noises, excessive emission of smoke, emission of toxic gases, excessive glare
and noxious odors. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   B.   Enclosed Activities: All production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing or repair activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by walls
or fences (whether solid or chainlink), including gates, not more than eight
feet (8') high. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Buffer Strips: Wherever any industrial use located in this district
abuts any other district, a twenty foot (20') wide view and noise control
buffer strip shall be installed. Such buffer strip shall consist of densely
planted shrubbery that is at least five feet (5') high when planted and that
can be expected to reach a height of ten feet (10') when full grown.
   D.   Parking: See chapter 11 of this title.
   E.   Signs: See section
11-10-8 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-7-4: PERMITTED USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of this district (section
11-7-3 of this chapter) are observed, the following uses are permitted:
Assembly, manufacturing, or processing of any commodity from semi-finished
materials, provided explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live animals are
not involved.
Freight and bus terminals and related mass transportation facilities.
Government uses of the village.
Research and development facilities not involving explosives, flammable gases,
or liquids, or live animals.
Service stations.
Warehousing or wholesaling of goods except explosives, flammable gases or
liquids, or live animals.
Accessory uses in accordance with section
11-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
11-7-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Provided all the use restrictions of this district (section
11-7-3 of this chapter) are observed, the following uses may be allowed by
conditional use permit:
Assembly, manufacturing, processing, warehousing, or wholesaling involving
explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live animals.
Research and development facilities involving explosives, or flammable liquids
or gases, or live animals.
Utility substations. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
RU RURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8-1: Narrative
11-8-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-8-3: Permitted Uses
11-8-4: Conditional Uses
11-8-1: NARRATIVE:
The RU rural district encompasses areas within the village that are presently
undeveloped or sparsely developed and that, for various reasons, should remain
so for the foreseeable future. Some tracts of land in this district within the
village are fertile and relatively level and best suited for farms, subject to
certain limitations. Other areas are undeveloped, and for the time being, it is
determined that the provision of roads, utilities and storm water drainage
systems would be impractical or a burdensome expense to the tax paying public.
The RU district also includes areas in the extraterritorial jurisdiction, shown
as "RU NC" on the zoning map. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-8-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   One Dwelling Per Lot: In the RU district, only one dwelling shall be
erected on any lot. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   B.   Requirements: The following requirements are applicable in the RU rural
district: (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   Minimum lot area: 2 acres.
      2.   Minimum lot width: 200 feet at the established building line.
      3.   Minimum lot depth: 250 feet.
      4.   Minimum setbacks:
         a.   From front lot line: 50 feet.
         b.   Side yards:
            (1)   Minimum total setback from both side lot lines: 25 feet.
            (2)   Minimum setback from either side lot line: 10 feet.
         c.   From rear lot line: 50 feet. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-8-3: PERMITTED USES:
Detached single-family dwellings.
Farms, including all uses as per definition except the raising or keeping of
livestock and poultry.
Nurseries, greenhouses, temporary produce stands.
Parks, playgrounds.
Accessory uses in accordance with section
11-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-8-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural implement sales.
Animal hospitals.
Bed and breakfast establishments which shall meet all of the following
requirements:
   A.   Must be the full time dwelling/residence of the owner.
   B.   The owner must be a natural person as opposed to a corporation or other
legal entity.
   C.   Must operate for more than ten (10) nights during a twelve (12) month
period.
   D.   The maximum stay for any guest shall be thirty (30) days in any one
calendar year.
   E.   No cooking facilities shall be permitted in any of the rented
guestrooms.
   F.   All requirements of the LaSalle County health department shall be
satisfied.
   G.   In addition to the parking requirements for a single- family detached
dwelling, shall provide one additional space for each guestroom, and such off
street parking shall not be located in any required yard.
   H.   Only one sign shall be permitted for each bed and breakfast
establishment with a maximum size of sixteen (16) square feet and allowed to be
double sided, and any illumination shall be external only.
   I.   A guestroom shall be a sleeping room intended to serve no more than two
(2) guests per night.
   J.   Accommodations shall be provided in guestrooms only.
   K.   Guestrooms shall be located in the principle residential structure;
however, a maximum of three (3) detached guestrooms may be allowed, but the
total number of guestrooms shall not exceed five (5). Such detached structure
shall consist of a sleeping room and private bath but no kitchen or other
facilities, and shall be allowed only upon a showing of a unique and compelling
reason and only if such detached units are architecturally and aesthetically
compatible.
   L.   Shall be allowed only in the rural district and only upon the issuance
of a conditional use permit.
   M.   Smoke detectors directly wired into the electrical system shall be
installed in each guestroom and in the hallway or corridor on each floor of the
residential structure.
   N.   In addition, a fully charged fire extinguisher shall be prominently
displayed in an accessible location.
   O.   The owner/operator shall submit a report to the zoning administrator
stating that the bed and breakfast establishment complies with state and county
public health regulations.
   P.   Shall have a minimum of two (2) exits.
   Q.   Each owner/operator shall keep a current guest register, including
names, permanent addresses, dates of occupancy, and motor vehicle license
numbers of all guests.
   R.   Breakfast may be provided only to overnight guests.
   S.   Any application for a conditional use permit shall include, in addition
to all other documents and information required, floor plans, drawn to scale,
accurately showing the guestrooms in relation to the rest of the dwelling.
   T.   By January 31 of each year after commencement of the bed and breakfast
operation, the owner/resident shall file an affidavit with the zoning
administrator that the property complies with subsections A through S above. A
violation of this provision by an owner/operator may result in a suspension,
revocation or nonrenewal.
   U.   Shall not be permitted whenever the operation thereof endangers,
offends, or interferes with the safety and rights of others so as to constitute
a public nuisance.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief activity a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Golf courses, regulation size.
Government uses.
Home occupations (see section
11-10-2 of this title).
Horse, one per acre or portion thereof, but in no event more than a total of
four (4) horses on any single lot; provided, that such horses shall be used
only for personal recreational use.
Utility substations (see section
11-10-5 of this title). (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. Ord. 24-96, 6-4-1996; Ord.
9-2002, 6-4-2002)
CHAPTER 9
AG AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Narrative
11-9-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-9-3: Permitted Uses
11-9-4: Conditional Uses
11-9-1: NARRATIVE:
The AG agriculture district encompasses contiguous territory located within
LaSalle County, lying outside the corporate limits and within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the village. These areas have
traditionally been used as farms. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-9-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements are applicable in the AG agriculture district: (Ord.
92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   Minimum lot area: 5 acres.
   B.   Minimum lot width: 200 feet.
   C.   Minimum lot depth: 400 feet.
   D.   Minimum setbacks:
      1.   From front lot line: The front setback line shall be not less than
70 feet from the centerline of a township street or road, 100 feet from the
centerline of a county highway and 175 feet from the centerline of a federal or
state highway.
      2.   Side yards:
         a.   Minimum total setback from both side lot lines: 25 feet.
         b.   Minimum setback from either side lot line: 10 feet.
      3.   From rear lot line: 50 feet.
   E.   Maximum height: No structure shall exceed 3 stories or 100 feet in
height. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-9-3: PERMITTED USES:
Church or similar place worship, parish house, church hall, or rectory or
convent.
Country club, private.
Farms.
Home garden.
Nurseries and/or greenhouses.
Nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school or high school; private.
One single-family dwelling or one two-family dwelling per lot.
Riding stable; provided, that the confining or sheltering of applicable animals
is not within five hundred feet (500') of a lot having an area of less than one
acre and improved with a single-family dwelling. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd.
Ord. 09-03, 7-1-2003)
11-9-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Agricultural implement sales.
Airport with unsurfaced runway.
Animal hospitals.
Cemeteries.
Churches and other places of formal worship.
Clubs or lodges, private; but not those which have as their chief activity a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Golf courses, regulation size.
Government uses.
Home occupations (see section
11-10-2 of this title).
Hospital or institution of an educational, religious, charitable or
philanthropic nature; provided, that it be located in a lot which contains at
least one acre.
Schools, public or private.
Training of security related canines and handlers.
Utility substations (see section
11-10-5 of this title).
Wholesale and/or retail sale of farm products produced and prepared on site
together with the sale of other related items. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd.
Ord. 3-99, 5-4-1999; 2003 Code; Ord. 9-03, 7-1-2003; Ord. 17-04, 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 10
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Application Of Provisions
11-10-2: Home Occupations
11-10-3: Recreational Vehicles
11-10-4: Service Stations
11-10-5: Utility Substations
11-10-6: Satellite Dishes
11-10-7: Fences And Walls
11-10-8: Signs
11-10-9: Trailers And Mobile Homes
11-10-10: Adult Entertainment Establishments
11-10-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter establishes lot and structure requirements, design standards and
use limitations for specific and/or potentially troublesome structures and
uses. These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific
structure or use is permitted or allowed by conditional use permit, but if more
stringent regulations are applicable in any particular district, such
regulations shall prevail. (Ord. 15-99, 12-7-1999)
11-10-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Conditional Use: Within the village and in the extra territorial
jurisdiction, every home occupation shall be considered a conditional use.
   B.   Regulations: No home occupation shall be established or conducted
except in conformity with the following regulations:
      1.   Number Of Unrelated Employees: A home occupation shall employ no
more than two (2) individuals who are unrelated to the family residing on the
premises.
      2.   Floor Space: The total area used for a home occupation conducted
within the dwelling shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross
floor area of the dwelling, but not more than three hundred (300) square feet.
In the agricultural district, a home occupation may be located in an
outbuilding of no more than one thousand seven hundred (1,700) square feet.
      3.   Dwelling Alterations: In any residential district, a principal
residential building shall not be altered to accommodate a home occupation in
such a way as to materially change the residential character of the building.
      4.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor (unenclosed) storage on the premises of
equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
      5.   Nuisance Conditions: A home occupation shall not generate any
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, or electrical
interference noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
      6.   Use Of Carports: Carports may not be used for home occupations other
than auto storage.
      7.   Absentee Landlord: Resident/proprietor may not become an absentee
landlord.
      8.   Parking: See chapter 11 of this title.
      9.   Signs: See section
11-10-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 15-99, 12-7-1999)
11-10-3: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Exemptions From Provisions: The regulations of this section do not
apply to travel trailers or other recreational vehicles parked in a permitted
travel trailer park or on a permitted sales lot.
   B.   Number Per Lot: Not more than one travel trailer or other recreational
vehicle shall be parked on any lot.
   C.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as a
dwelling or for storage.
      2.   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as an
office or for any other commercial purpose.
   D.   Parking In Front Yard: No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle
shall be parked on any front yard, except on a driveway. (Ord. 15-99, 12-7-
1999)
11-10-4: SERVICE STATIONS 1 :
   A.   Pump Setbacks: All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall
begin at least twenty five feet (25') from any street right-of-way line, side
lot line, or rear lot line.
   B.   Location Of Access Way: Every access way shall begin at least two
hundred feet (200') from the principal building of any fire station, school,
public library, church, park or playground and at least thirty feet (30') from
any intersection of public streets.
   C.   Underground Storage: Federal, State, and other pertinent regulations
concerning underground storage tanks 2  shall be complied with. (Ord. 15-99,
12-7-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-8-3 of this Code.
2 1. See also section
  5-8-3 of this Code.
11-10-5: UTILITY SUBSTATIONS:
Every electrical substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange
facility, sewage treatment plant, and water storage facility shall be deemed a
conditional use, and shall conform to the following regulations: (Ord. 15-99,
12-7-1999)
   A.   Minimum Lot Requirements: Every lot on which any such facility is
located shall meet the minimum area and dimension requirements of the district
in which it is located. Every part of any such facility shall be located at
least twenty five feet (25') from all lot lines, or shall meet the district
setback requirements, whichever is greater.
   B.   Compatibility With Residential Character: In any residential district,
every such facility shall be designed, constructed, and operated so that it is
compatible with the residential character of the area. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   C.   Screening: Screening eight feet (8') in height and of sufficient
density to block the view from adjacent property shall be installed around
every such facility. Furthermore if the Zoning Administrator determines that
the facility may pose a safety hazard (e.g., if there are exposed
transformers), he shall require that a secure fence eight feet (8') in height
be installed behind the planting screen. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
11-10-6: SATELLITE DISHES:
A satellite dish may be located in a residential district when it complies with
the following conditions:
   A.   Location:
      1.   It is ground mounted.
      2.   It is not located in a front yard or exterior side yard.
   B.   Setbacks: It complies with the setback requirements of the underlying
zone for accessory structures.
   C.   Height: It does not exceed twelve feet (12') in height above existing
grade.
   D.   Number: Only one (1) satellite dish antenna shall be permitted per lot.
   E.   Size: The satellite dish shall not exceed ten feet (10') in diameter.
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-10-7: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Determination Of Property Lines: Before a building permit is granted,
property lines shall be determined either by a survey or agreed to by signature
of adjoining property owner. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   B.   Materials:
      1.   Fences constructed within the residential and business districts
shall be limited to those constructed of wood, chain link, wrought iron, brick,
decorative stone, or appropriate compatible manufactured PVC fencing. (Ord. 07-
16, 9-6-2016)
      2.   No barbed wire fence shall be erected or maintained anywhere within
the corporate limits of the village except in the RU rural district or I
industrial district 1 .
   C.   Location:
      1.   No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be erected within any
public right of way, except by way of a variance granted in accordance with
this title. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
      2.   In the residential districts, no fence shall be constructed beyond
the front of the primary structure, except if a variance is specifically
granted for such. (Ord. 8-99, 7-6-1999)
   D.   Design: All fences hereafter constructed within the corporate limits of
the village shall be designed in such a manner that the posts of the fence
shall be on the interior of the fence and face the property of the individual
constructing the fence.
   E.   Height: No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected over eight
feet (8') in height. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-9 of this code.
11-10-8: SIGNS:
Except as specifically authorized herein, signs shall be prohibited.
   A.   Signs In Residential Districts: In all residential districts,
nonflashing, illuminated accessory signs are permitted in accordance with the
regulations set forth as follows:
      1.   Nameplates And Identification Signs: Nameplates and identification
signs, subject to the following:
         a.   Number And Size:
            (1)   One- and two-family dwellings, not more than one nameplate,
not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) square feet in area, for each dwelling
unit, indicating the name or address of the occupant or a permitted occupation;
provided, that on a corner lot, two (2) such nameplates for each dwelling unit,
one facing each street, shall be permitted.
            (2)   For multiple-family dwellings and buildings other than
dwellings, a single identification sign not exceeding nine (9) square feet in
area and indicating only the name and address of the building and the name of
the management thereof may be displayed; provided, that on a corner lot, two
(2) such signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
            (3)   Church bulletin boards; shall not exceed twenty four (24)
square feet in area.
         b.   Projection Into Public Ways: No sign shall project beyond the
property line into the public way.
         c.   Height: No sign shall project higher than one story, or eight
feet (8') above curb level, whichever is lower.
      2.   Real Estate Signs: Signs advertising the sale or rental of property
upon which the sign is located, provided:
         a.   Size:
            (1)   Signs advertising the sale of one residential lot shall not
exceed nine (9) square feet.
            (2)   Signs for the sale of property within a new subdivision or
for a single parcel of more than forty (40) acres shall not exceed one hundred
(100) square feet and shall be permitted for a period of not more than two (2)
years; except, that a permit may be renewed annually for a period not to exceed
one year.
         b.   Location: The sign is located as directed by the zoning
administrator, but in no case shall a sign be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any other lot not under the same ownership nor project beyond the
property line into the public way.
         c.   Height: No sign shall project higher than eight feet (8') above
the road level.
   B.   Business Districts: The following signs shall be permitted and governed
as follows in business districts:
      1.   Permitted Signs; Restrictions:
         a.   Nameplates And Identification Signs: Signs relating only to the
name and use of buildings or premises upon which they are placed shall be
permitted. For integrated shopping centers in single ownership and management,
or under unified control, and containing five (5) or more stores or shops, one
additional sign may be erected not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in
area advertising only the name and the location of the integrated shopping
enter. Such sign shall be placed so as to be not less than ten feet (10') from
the front property lines of the premises upon which the sign is located, and
the bottom edge of the signs shall be at least eight feet (8') above the level
of the ground, and the overall height shall not exceed twenty feet (20') above
curb level, or above the adjoining ground level if such ground level is above
the street level.
         b.   Wall Signs: Signs attached to a building or buildings shall not
project more than eighteen inches (18") from the wall upon which they are
attached. Signs must be attached to parapet walls or other wall surfaces made a
part of the main structure. No sign shall project higher than four feet (4')
above the parapet line or the roof line, whichever is higher.
         c.   Signs Attached To Marquees And Canopies: Signs attached to or
hung from a marquee or canopy shall be completely within the borderline of the
outer edge of the marquee or canopy and shall in no instance be lower than
eight feet (8') above the ground or surface over which the marquee or canopy is
constructed.
         d.   Location Of And Requirements For Freestanding Signs And Ground
Signs: Signs, clocks or other advertising devices erected upon standards or
separate supports shall be placed so as to be not less than ten feet (10') from
the front property lines of the premises upon which they are located or the
adjoining property line, and no part of the sign or standard shall have a total
height greater than twenty feet (20') above the level of the street upon which
the sign faces, or above the adjoining ground level if such ground level is
above the street level; nor shall the surface of any such sign exceed an area
of one hundred (100) square feet.
         e.   Traffic Signs And Markers:
            (1)   Highway directional signs and markers which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the village for announcing
the location of or directing traffic to given locations which include, but are
not limited to, the following:
               (A)   Service area: automobile, food, lodging.
               (B)   Business or business district.
            (2)   Traffic or directional signs designating entrances, exits and
conditions of use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises may be maintained, provided they are located within the property lines
of the subject lot.
      2.   Prohibited Signs:
         a.   Advertising Signs And Billboards: Advertising signs and outdoor
billboards advertising products or matters not related to the occupancy and use
of the premises shall not be permitted.
         b.   Roof Signs: Signs attached to the roof of the building or to any
other part of the building above the roof line shall not be permitted. (Ord.
92-09, 4-14-1992)
         c.   Signs Painted On Structures: No sign may be pasted or painted
directly on the surface of any wall without the consent of the owner 1 .
         d.   Flashing Signs: No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or
intermittent type.
         e.   Signs Similar To Traffic Signs: Signs which may be in conflict
with public traffic signals shall not be permitted.
         f.   Wall Signs; Signs On Fences In Residential Districts: No sign
shall be placed on any wall, fence or standard facing the side of any adjoining
lot located in any residential district.
      3.   Sign Area: The gross surface area of all signs on a tract of
commonly owned lots shall not exceed a square foot area of one- half (1/2) the
lineal frontage of such tract or thirty (30) square feet for each business use,
whichever is greater. Each side of a building which abuts upon a street shall
be considered as a separate frontage.
   C.   Signs In Industrial District:
      1.   Signs Permitted Generally: All signs and nameplates permitted in the
business districts.
      2.   Billboards And Advertising Signs:
         a.   Area: Billboards, advertising signs and poster panels are
permitted; provided, the total area of all such billboards, advertising signs
and poster panels does not exceed two hundred seventy five (275) square feet.
         b.   Height: No advertising sign or billboard shall project higher
than twenty feet (20') above the ground level beneath it.
         c.   Location:
            (1)   No advertising sign shall be located within five hundred feet
(500') of any public park of more than five (5) acres in area. (Ord. 92-09, 4-
14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
            (2)   No advertising sign shall be located within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of property located in a residence district.
      3.   Sign Area: The gross area in square feet of all signs on a lot shall
not exceed four (4) square feet per lineal foot of building facade.
      4.   Height: No sign shall project higher than twenty five feet (25')
above the ground level beneath it.
   D.   Portable Signs: Portable signs shall be allowed in all districts except
the residential districts, subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   Definition: A "portable sign" is a sign, no face of which shall
exceed thirty six (36) square feet, attached to or mounted upon a frame
intended to be moved from place to place. Such signs may be used as a temporary
sign and may or may not include movable lettering and/or electrical equipment
for use as illuminated signs. All illuminated portable signs shall be wired
with UL approved wiring connection. No flashing lights or other moving displays
shall be permitted on such sign, and all illumination shall be of an indirect
or diffused nature.
      2.   Permit Required: No portable sign shall hereafter be erected or
maintained on any tract of commonly owned lots within the corporate limits of
the village without having first obtained a permit therefor from the village
clerk.
      3.   Time For Use: No portable sign now in use shall be maintained in use
for a period of time in excess of twelve (12) months following the effective
date of this subsection. No portable sign hereafter placed in use shall be
maintained in use for a period of time in excess of twelve (12) months. Upon
the expiration of said twelve (12) month period, the use of said portable sign
shall be discontinued, and no portable sign advertising the same business or
establishment shall be reinstalled or reerected for a period of six (6) months.
      4.   Permitted Purposes: Portable signs may be installed and maintained
for the purpose of advertising promotions, anniversary sales, special sales or
going out of business sales, provided:
         a.   Such signs shall be located only on the lot or lots upon which
the promoting business establishment is located.
         b.   Such signs shall be maintained in place for no longer than
fourteen (14) days, and upon the removal thereof, no similar signs advertising
a promotion, anniversary sale, special sale, or going out of business sale
shall be placed or erected for a period of thirty (30) days following the
removal of the prior portable signs.
      5.   Number: No more than one portable sign shall be located on any lot
or lots advertising any one business. When more than one business is located on
one lot, each separate business shall be entitled to maintain, subject to the
provisions of this subsection, one portable sign. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-2-2H of this code.
11-10-9: TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES 1 :
Except as permitted by sections
11-9-4 of this title and
11-10-3 of this chapter, no trailer, travel trailer or mobile home shall be
permitted in any district except if located in a permitted trailer or mobile
home park. (Ord. 95-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 5 of this code.
11-10-10: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Adult entertainment establishments are prohibited in all zoning
districts within the village of Leland and in the extraterritorial jurisdiction
subject to the zoning ordinance of the village of Leland.
   B.   An "adult entertainment establishment" shall be defined as any
commercial establishment which allows any of the following:
      1.   Any female person, while on the premises of said commercial
establishment, to expose to the public view that area of the human female
breast at or below the top of the areola thereof.
      2.   Any female person, while on the premises of said commercial
establishment, to employ any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate such portions of the human female breast as described
in subsection B1 of this section.
      3.   Any person, while on the premises of said commercial establishment,
to expose to public view his or her genitals, pubic area, or buttocks.
      4.   Any person, while on the premises of said commercial establishment,
to employ any device or covering which is intended to give the appearance of or
simulate the genitals, pubic area, or buttocks. (Ord. 3-03, 3-4-2003)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-11-1: Application Of Provisions
11-11-2: Existing Parking And Loading Facilities
11-11-3: Parking Area Design Standards
11-11-4: Parking Location
11-11-5: Loading Area Design And Location
11-11-6: Computation Of Required Parking And Loading Spaces
11-11-7: Number Of Parking And Loading Spaces Required
11-11-8: Parking Exemptions
11-11-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Off street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with this
chapter for all structures and uses erected or established after the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-11-2: EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
   A.   Reduction Of Number: Existing off street parking or loading facilities
located on the same lot as the use served shall not be reduced, or if already
less than, shall not be further reduced, below the requirements and standards
for similar new structures or uses.
   B.   Damaged Or Destroyed Use: When an existing structure or use is damaged
or destroyed and subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading facilities
equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be
restored, but additional parking/loading facilities need not be provided.
   C.   Increase In Use: Whenever the use of any structure or premises is
intensified through addition of dwelling units, increased floor area, greater
seating capacity, etc., additional parking and loading facilities commensurate
with such increases in use intensity shall be provided.
   D.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a
different use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required
herein for such new use. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-11-3: PARKING AREA DESIGN STANDARDS:
Note: Standards applicable to all parking areas are indicated by an asterisk
(*); standards applicable to all parking areas except those accessory to
single-family or two-family dwellings are indicated by two (2) asterisks (**).
   A.   Parking Spaces:
      1.   Each required parking space shall be at least ten feet (10') wide
and twenty feet (20') long, and shall have at least seven feet (7') of vertical
clearance. Every space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle
overhangs the public right of way.*
      2.   Markings shall be laid and restored as often as necessary to clearly
delineate each parking space.**
   B.   Interior Aisles: Aisles within parking lots shall be sufficiently wide
to permit safe and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out
of parking spaces.**
   C.   Access Ways:
      1.   Parking areas shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right
of way.*
      2.   No access way to any parking area shall begin within twenty five
feet (25') of any corner formed by the intersection of the rights of way of two
(2) or more streets.*
      3.   Parking area access ways (including residential driveways) and
public streets shall be aligned to form, as closely as feasible, right angles.*
   D.   Surfacing: Parking lots shall be graded and improved with a compacted
stone base at least four inches (4") thick, surfaced with at least two inches
(2") of asphalt, concrete or approved comparable material.
   E.   Lighting: Any lights used to illuminate any parking area shall be
arranged or shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the parking area
boundary lines to the greatest extent practicable.
   F.   Screening: In order to preserve the continuity of the streetscape and
to minimize visual pollution, all parking lots containing more than eight (8)
parking spaces shall be bordered by a wall, fence, raised earth berm, or
closely planted shrubbery on each side abutting any street or residential
property with a minimum height of four feet (4').
   G.   Landscaping:
      1.   In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of dust and
trash and reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open parking areas,
landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every parking lot that
contains twenty (20) or more parking spaces.**
      2.   A landscaping plan shall accompany every application for a zoning
compliance certificate to develop any parking lot that will contain twenty (20)
or more spaces.
      3.   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
         a.   Proposed type, amount, size, and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery, and ground cover;
         b.   Proposed size, construction materials, drainage, and scheduled
maintenance of landscaped islands or planting beds; and
         c.   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian movement. (Ord.
92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-11-4: PARKING LOCATION:
   A.   Parking areas shall be located on the same lot as the principal use or
not over four hundred feet (400') from the principal use.
   B.   No parking stall or driveway shall be closer than three feet (3') to
any lot line.
   C.   No parking stalls for business or industrial uses shall be located in a
residential zoning district except parking stalls required for conditional uses
in residential zoning districts. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-11-5: LOADING AREA DESIGN AND LOCATION:
All off street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated below:
   A.   Size Of Space: Every required off street loading space shall be at
least twelve feet (12') wide and forty five feet (45') long exclusive of aisle
and maneuver space, and shall have vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet
(14'). In no case shall a vehicle being loaded or unloaded overhang into the
public right of way.
   B.   Access Way: Every off street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least twelve
feet (12') wide.
   C.   Surfacing: Every off street loading area shall be improved with
compacted stone base at least seven inches (7") thick and surfaced with at
least two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   D.   Buffer Strips: No loading space or area for vehicles over two (2) tons'
cargo capacity shall be developed closer than fifty feet (50') to the lot line
of any lot located in any residential district unless such space/area is
completely enclosed by walls, a solid fence, or closely planted shrubbery eight
feet (8') in height and of sufficient density to block the view from the
residential property. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Location: Every off street loading space that is required or provided
shall be located on the same parcel of land as the use served, and not closer
than fifty feet (50') to the intersection of the rights of way of two (2) or
more streets, and not in required front yards. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-11-6: COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
In computing the number of parking spaces required by this title, the following
rules shall apply:
   A.   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. "Employee parking" means one parking space shall be required
per one and one-half (11/2) employees, unless otherwise stated.
   B.   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   C.   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, three hundred fifty (350) square feet of gross area
shall be deemed one parking space.
   D.   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or
more shall be counted as one space.
   E.   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for number of off street parking or loading spaces shall be counted
as part of the off street parking or loading spaces required for another
structure or use. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-11-7: NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED:
Use     Parking    Loading Spaces Required (If Any)
     Spaces Required
Use                           Parking              Loading Spaces Required
                           Spaces Required            (If Any)
Libraries, museums        1 space per 500 square    On review by the
                           feet of floor area         administrator
                                                      To 50,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area - 1 space;
Nursing homes             1 space per 5 beds        50,001 to 100,000 square
                                                      feet - 2 spaces; 100,001
                                                      to 200,000 square feet -
                                                      3 spaces
Schools                                            On review by the
                                                      administrator
                           1 space for every 20
  Elementary and junior    students that the
 high                    building is designed to    
                           accommodate, plus
                           employee parking
                           1 space for every 4
                           students over 16 years
 Senior high             old that the building is   
                           designed to accommodate,
                           plus employee parking
                           1 space for every 3
                           students that the
 Trade school            building is designed to    
                           accommodate, plus
                           employee parking
Commercial,                                         
Office, Service:
                                                      To 10,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area - 1 space;
Note: All commercial and                              more than 10,000 square
service uses, unless      1 space per 300 square    feet - 1 space plus 1
specifically indicated     feet of floor area         additional space per
otherwise below                                       50,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area in excess of
                                                      10,000 square feet
Banks, savings and loans                            
                           1 space per 300 square
 Walk in                 feet of floor area, plus   (Both walk in and drive
                           employee parking           in): to 30,000 square
                                                      feet of floor area -
                                                      none required; 30,001 to
                                                      100,000 square feet - 1
                                                      space plus 1 additional
 Drive in                5 spaces per teller        space per 100,000 square
                           window                     feet of floor area in
                                                      excess of 100,000 square
                                                      feet


Beauty and barber shops   2 spaces per chair, plus  Not applicable
                           employee parking
                           4 spaces per bowling
                           lane plus additional       Not applicable, except
Bowling alleys            spaces as required        as required for
                           herein for affiliated      affiliated uses
                           uses such as restaurants
                           and taverns
Car wash                  5 spaces per wash lane    Not applicable
                                                      To 25,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area - 2 spaces;
                                                      more than 25,000 square
Furniture and appliance    1 space per 600 square     feet of floor area - 2
store                     feet of floor area        spaces plus 1 additional
                                                      space per 25,000 square
                                                      feet of floor area in
                                                      excess of 25,000 square
                                                      feet
                           1 space per 150 square
                           feet of floor area
                           devoted to the home
Home occupations          occupation in addition    Not applicable
                           to the parking
                           requirements for the
                           dwelling
                           1 space per 5 seats plus
                           1 space per funeral        1 space per 10,000
Mortuaries                vehicle, but not less     square feet or more of
                           than 20 spaces per         floor area
                           chapel or stateroom
                                                      To 30,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area - none
                                                      required; 30,001 to
Offices generally, but                                100,000 square feet - 1
not medical/dental        1 space per 300 square    space; more than 100,000
offices                    feet of floor area         square feet - 1 space
                                                      plus 1 additional space
                                                      per 100,000 square feet
                                                      of floor area in excess
                                                      of 100,000 square feet
                           1 space per 200 square
Offices, medical/dental   feet of floor area or 3   Not applicable
                           spaces per professional,
                           whichever is greater
Restaurants, refreshment                            
stands
                           1 space per 4 seats or 1
 Sit down                space per 50 square feet
                           of floor area, whichever   (Both sit down and drive
                           is greater                 in): 1 space per
                                                      structure having 10,000
                           1 space per 25 square      square feet of floor
 Drive in                feet of floor area         area


                           2 spaces per service
Service stations          stall, plus employee      Not applicable
                           parking
                           1 space per 600 square
                           feet of enclosed floor
                           area, plus: up to 10,000   To 25,000 square feet of
                           square feet of open lot    floor area and open lot
                           area devoted to sale/      area - 2 spaces; more
                           display of vehicles - 1    than 25,000 square feet
Vehicle sales (autos,     space per 2,500 square    of floor area and open
boats, trailers, etc.)     feet of open lot area      lot area - 2 spaces plus
                           above 10,000 square        1 additional space per
                           feet; 4 spaces plus 1      25,000 square feet in
                           additional space per       excess of 25,000 square
                           5,000 square feet of       feet
                           open lot area in excess
                           of 10,000 square feet
Industrial:                                         
                                                      To 20,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area - 1 space;
                           Employee parking (1.5      20,001 to 50,000 square
Any manufacturing,         spaces per employee)       feet - 2 spaces; 50,001
warehousing, or other     plus 1 space per company  to 90,000 square feet -
industrial use             vehicle, plus 1 visitor    3 spaces plus 1
                           space per 25 employees     additional space per
                           on the major shift         50,000 square feet of
                                                      floor area in excess of
                                                      90,000 square feet
Multi-Family Residence    2 spaces per unit         Not applicable
 
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
11-11-8: PARKING EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Existing Uses And Structures: All uses and structures established prior
to the adoption of this title will not be required to meet full compliance with
respect to parking requirements contained in this chapter; except, that any new
extensions in building area or lot area will be required to meet the parking
standards contained in this chapter.
   B.   Payment In Lieu: With approval of the plan commission and the village
council, within the central business district area, a payment to the village
maintenance fund in an amount determined by the council for each parking stall
required may be made in lieu of providing the parking stalls. In determining
the number of parking stalls for payment, the number of existing stalls lost to
the building extension shall be added to the number required by the extension.
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Nonconforming Vacant Lots
11-12-3: Nonconforming Structures
11-12-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
11-12-1: PURPOSE:
The requirements imposed by this title are designed to guide the use of land by
encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible with the
predominant character of each of the various districts. Lots, structures, and
uses of land or structures that do not conform to the requirements of the
district in which they are located impede appropriate development. For example,
nonconformities are frequently responsible for heavy traffic on residential
streets, the overtaxing of parking facilities, the emission of noxious fumes or
excessive noise, and/or the lowering of property values. The regulations of
this chapter are intended to alleviate such existing/potential problems by
encouraging the gradual elimination of nonconformities. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-12-2: NONCONFORMING VACANT LOTS:
   A.   Use Permitted; Conditions: Any vacant lot that does not conform to one
or more of the lot size (area dimensions) requirements of the district in which
it is located may be used in the manner in subsections B, C and D of this
section if such vacant lot:
      1.   Is of record on the date of the original adoption of this title,
being April 14, 1992;
      2.   Is at least thirty feet (30') wide; and
      3.   Is in compliance with section
11-4-10 of this title.
   B.   Lots In Residential Districts: In any residential district, one single-
family dwelling and related accessory structures, but no other use, may be
erected on any vacant nonconforming lot of the type described above, provided
all the bulk regulations of the particular district are observed.
   C.   Lots In Commercial And Industrial Districts: In the industrial district
and in any commercial district, any structure permitted in the particular
district may be erected on any vacant nonconforming lot; provided, that all
bulk regulations of the particular district are observed.
   D.   Lots In Rural And Agricultural Districts: One single-family dwelling
and related accessory structures may be erected on any vacant nonconforming lot
in the rural and agricultural districts; provided, that all bulk regulations of
the particular district are observed.
   E.   Two Or More Lots In Common Ownership: If two (2) or more lots or
combination of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage were of
record and in common ownership on the effective date of this title, and if one
or more of those lots does not meet the minimum lot width, depth, and area
requirements of the district in which it is located, the land involved shall be
considered an undivided parcel. No portion of any such parcel shall be
developed except in compliance with this title. (Ord. 95-2)
11-12-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Any lawful structure which exists on the effective date of this title but which
could not be erected under the terms of this title because of restrictions on
lot size, height, setbacks, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, may lawfully remain, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Enlargement Or Alterations: No such structure shall be enlarged or
altered in any way which increases its nonconformity.
   B.   Relocation: No such structure shall be relocated unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district into which
it is relocated.
   C.   Reconstruction: No such structure which is destroyed or damaged by any
means shall be reconstructed if the administrator determines that the cost of
such reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the structure's market value
at the time of loss, unless, after reconstruction, the structure will conform
to all applicable regulations of the district in which it is located. In the
event the administrator determines the estimated cost of reconstruction is less
than fifty percent (50%) of the structure's market value at the time of loss,
repairs or reconstruction shall be permitted, provided such work starts within
six (6) months from the date the damage occurred and is diligently pursued to
completion. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-12-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date of this title that would
not be permitted under the terms of this title may lawfully continue, subject
to the following provisions:
   A.   Intensification Or Extension Of Use: A nonconforming use of land shall
not be intensified or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the effective date of this title.
   B.   Relocation: No conforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or in
part, unless such use, upon relocation, will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it is proposed to be located.
   C.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed except
to a use that is permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Use: When a nonconforming use of land is discontinued
for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be
resumed, and any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable
district regulations. Any discontinuance caused by government action and
without any contributing fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in
calculating the length of discontinuance. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 13
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-13-1: Zoning Administrator
11-13-2: Zoning Board Of Appeals
11-13-3: Zoning Compliance Permit
11-13-4: Zoning Certificate Of Occupancy
11-13-5: Conditional Use Permit
11-13-6: Temporary Use Permit
11-13-7: Variances
11-13-8: Rights Of Variance And Conditional Use Applicants
11-13-9: Amendments
11-13-10: Community Impact Statement
11-13-11: Appeals
11-13-12: Fees And Costs
11-13-13: Proceedings To Prevent Violation
11-13-14: Corrective Action Orders
11-13-15: Complaints
11-13-16: Penalties
11-13-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: The office of zoning administrator of the
village is hereby established. The zoning administrator will be appointed by
the village council and will work with the village council in carrying out his/
her duties.
   B.   Duties: The zoning administrator is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this title. This broad responsibility
encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific duties:
      1.   To review and pass upon applications for building permits and
certificates of occupancy.
      2.   To inspect land, structures and uses to determine compliance with
this title and, where there are violations, to initiate appropriate corrective
action. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
      3.   To review and forward to the zoning board of appeals all
applications for variances, appeals, conditional use permits, temporary use
permits and amendments.
      4.   To maintain up to date records of this title including, but not
limited to, building permits and certificates of occupancy, conditional use
permits, temporary use permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the
board of appeals, amendments and all applications related to any of these
matters. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      5.   To publish no later than March 31 of each year, a map clearly
showing the existing zoning uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations and
classifications for the preceding calendar year. If, in any calendar year after
the first map is published, there are no changes in zoning uses, divisions,
restrictions, regulations, and classifications, no map shall be published for
such calendar year 1 .
      6.   To publish within thirty (30) days after passage any amendment to
this title.
      7.   To perform other duties as the village council may from time to time
prescribe. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  11-3-2B of this title.
11-13-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Board Established: The zoning board of appeals of the village is hereby
established in accordance with Illinois law 1 . (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Membership; Appointment; Terms: The zoning board of appeals shall
consist of seven (7) members. Each board member shall be appointed by the mayor
and confirmed by the village council. The seven (7) members shall serve
respectively for the following terms: one for one year, one for two (2) years,
one for three (3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one
for six (6) years, and one for seven (7) years. The successor to each member so
appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. One of the members shall be
named as chairman at the time of his appointment.
   C.   Removals And Vacancies: The village council has the power to remove any
member for cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant.
   D.   Compensation: Each zoning board of appeals member shall receive such
compensation, if any, as is determined from time to time by the village
council.
   E.   Meetings:
      1.   Time For Meetings: All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall
be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the zoning board
of appeals may determine. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      2.   Open To Public: All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be
open to the public.
      3.   Minutes And Records: The zoning board of appeals shall keep minutes
of its meetings, showing the vote of each member upon every question or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of
its examinations and other official actions.
      4.   Quorum: No hearing shall be conducted without a quorum of the board
being present, which shall consist of a majority of all of the members.
      5.   Absentee Voting: Any absent member who certifies that he has read
the transcript of the proceedings before the board may vote upon any question
before the board.
      6.   Testimonies Under Oath: All testimony by witnesses in any hearings
hereunder shall be given under oath.
   F.   Decisions; Vote And Records: The concurring vote of four (4) members of
the zoning board of appeals is necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the zoning administrator or to decide in
favor of the applicant any matter upon which the zoning board of appeals is
required to pass under this title or to recommend any variation, conditional
use, or amendment to this title. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or
repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
zoning board of appeals shall be immediately filed in the office of the board
and shall be a public record. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
11-13-3: ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT 1 :
   A.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall be erected,
reconstructed, altered, enlarged, or moved 2  until a zoning compliance permit
shall have been applied for in writing and issued by the zoning administrator.
   B.   Application For Permit: Every application for a zoning compliance
permit submitted to the zoning administrator shall be accompanied by a site
plan, drawn to scale and showing the lot and the building site and the location
of existing buildings on the lot, vehicular and pedestrian ingress and egress,
accurate dimensions of the lot, yards and building or buildings, together with
such other information as may be necessary to the enforcement of this title.
   C.   Plan To Comply With Provisions: Before a zoning compliance permit is
issued for the erection, reconstruction, alteration, enlargement or moving of
any building or structure, the plans and intended use shall indicate conformity
in all respects to the provisions of this title.
   D.   Expiration Of Permit: Any zoning compliance permit issued hereunder is
valid for one year from the date of issuance. If the building or structure is
not completed within that one year period, the zoning compliance permit expires
and application for a new zoning compliance permit must be made.
   E.   Permit To Be Posted: The permit shall be posted in a prominent place on
the premises prior to and during the period of erection, reconstruction,
alteration, enlargement or moving.
   F.   Minimum Requirements: In interpreting and applying the provisions of
this title, such provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of health, safety, morals, convenience and the general welfare of
the public. (Ord. 21-04, 10-5-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  10-3-1C of this code for fees.
2 2. See also section
  10-5-1 of this code.
11-13-4: ZONING CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: A zoning certificate of occupancy to be issued by
the zoning administrator shall be required for any of the following, except
buildings incidental to agricultural operations other than residences, and no
such occupancy, use or change of use shall take place until a zoning
certificate of occupancy therefor shall be issued:
      1.   Occupancy and use of a building hereafter erected, reconstructed,
altered, enlarged or moved.
      2.   Change in use of an existing building.
      3.   Occupancy and use of vacant land except for the raising of crops.
      4.   Change in the use of land to a use of different classification
except for the raising of crops.
      5.   Any change in the use of a nonconforming use.
   B.   Occupancy Of Buildings:
      1.   Application For Certificate: Written application for a zoning
certificate of occupancy for a new building or for an existing building which
has been reconstructed, altered, enlarged or moved shall be made at the same
time as the application for the zoning compliance permit for such buildings.
      2.   Time Limit For Action: The zoning certificate of occupancy shall be
acted upon within three (3) business days after a written request for the same
has been made to the zoning administrator after the erection, reconstruction,
alteration, enlargement or movement of such building or part thereof has been
completed in conformance with the provisions of this title.
      3.   Temporary Certificate: Pending the issuance of such a certificate, a
temporary zoning certificate of occupancy may be issued by the zoning
administrator for a period of no more than six (6) months during the completion
of the construction of the building or of such reconstruction, alteration or
enlargement as required under the terms of any law or ordinance. Such temporary
certificate may be renewed, but it shall not be construed in any way to alter
the respective rights, duties or obligations of the owner or of the village
relating to the use or occupancy of the land or building, or any other matter
covered by this title, and such temporary certificate shall not be issued
except under such restrictions and provisions as will adequately ensure
compliance with this title.
   C.   Application For Certificate For Use Of Vacant Land, Change In Use Or
Change In Nonconforming Use: Written application for a zoning certificate of
occupancy for the use of vacant land, or for a change in the use of land or a
building, or for a change in a nonconforming use, as herein provided, shall be
made to the zoning administrator.
   D.   Issuance Of Certificate: If the proposed use is in conformity with the
provisions of this title, the zoning certificate of occupancy therefor shall be
issued within three (3) business days after the written request (referred to in
subsection B2 of this section) for the same has been made.
   E.   Contents Of Certificate: Each zoning certificate of occupancy shall
state that the building or proposed use of a building or land complies with all
provisions of this title.
   F.   Record Of Certificate: A record of all zoning certificates of occupancy
shall be kept on file in the office of the zoning administrator, and a copy
shall be forwarded, on request, to any person having proprietary or tenancy
interest in the building or land affected. (Ord. 21-04, 10-5-2004)
11-13-5: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Purpose: This title divides the village into various districts and
permits in each district, as a matter of right, only those uses which are
clearly compatible with one another. Certain other uses, because of their
special operational or physical characteristics, may or may not have a
detrimental impact on nearby permitted uses, depending upon their precise
location, manner of operation, and other facts. Such "conditional uses" require
careful case by case review, and may be allowed only by permission of the
village council.
   B.   Application For Permit; Advisory Report Required: Every applicant for a
conditional use permit shall submit to the administrator, in narrative and/or
graphic form, the items of information listed in subsection C of this section
along with the required fee (see section
11-13-12 of this chapter). The administrator shall prepare an advisory report
on every request for a conditional use permit. He shall promptly transmit the
completed application and his advisory report to the zoning board of appeals.
   C.   Information Required:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure
or use, if different from subsection C1 of this section;
      3.   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
      4.   Location of the proposed use or structure and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses or structures;
      5.   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or uses;
      6.   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping, and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      7.   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      8.   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      9.   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      10.   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      11.   Any other pertinent information that the administrator may require.
   D.   Public Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing: The zoning board of appeals shall hold a public
hearing on every conditional use permit application within a reasonable time
after said application is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested
party may appear, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
      2.   Notice Requirements: Notice indicating the time, date and place of
the hearing and the location and nature of the proposed conditional use shall
be given not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before
the hearing, as follows:
         a.   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property, in the opinion of the zoning board of appeals, would be directly
affected by the proposed conditional use; and
         b.   By publication in a newspaper published in the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then by a publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village published in LaSalle County.
   E.   Board Of Appeals Requirements:
      1.   Advisory Report; Factors Considered: Within a reasonable time after
the public hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall submit their advisory
report to the village council. In deciding what their advice should be, the
zoning board of appeals shall consider the following factors:
         a.   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation of
the proposed conditional use will adequately protect the public health, safety,
and welfare and the physical environment;
         b.   Whether the proposed conditional use is consistent with the
Leland comprehensive plan;
         c.   The effect the proposed conditional use would have on the value
of neighboring property and on the village overall tax base;
         d.   The effect the proposed conditional use would have on public
utilities and on traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
         e.   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed conditional
use (such as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
      2.   Findings Of Fact; Terms Of Relief: The recommendation of the zoning
board of appeals shall be accompanied by findings of fact and shall refer to
any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the proposed use, which
shall remain a part of the permanent records of the zoning board of appeals.
The findings of fact shall specify the reasons for recommending the granting of
the use. The terms of the relief recommended shall be specifically set forth in
a conclusion or statement separate from the findings of fact. Property for
which relief has been granted shall not be used in violation of the specific
terms of findings of fact, unless its usage is changed by further findings of
fact. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   F.   Village Council Requirements:
      1.   Action By Council: The council shall act on every request for a
conditional use permit at the next regularly scheduled meeting following
receipt of the zoning board of appeals' advisory report. Without further public
hearing, the village council may grant a conditional use permit by an ordinance
passed by a simple majority vote or may refer it back to the board for further
consideration. Any proposed conditional use which fails to receive the approval
of the zoning board of appeals shall not be passed except by the favorable vote
of at least four (4) members of the village council. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992;
amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Findings Of Fact; Terms Of Relief: Every conditional use
determination of the village council shall be accompanied by findings of fact
and shall refer to any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the
proposed conditional use, which shall remain a part of the permanent records of
the zoning board of appeals. The findings of fact shall specify the reasons for
granting the conditional use. The terms of relief granted shall be specifically
set forth in a conclusion or statement separate from the findings of fact.
Property for which relief has been granted shall not be used in violation of
the specific terms of the ordinance unless its usage is changed by additional
ordinances. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-6: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
As set forth in section
11-4-3 of this title, requests for temporary use permits shall be treated in
substantially the same manner as requests for conditional use permits. The
council shall not initially issue any temporary use permit for a period longer
than one year, but they may renew any such permit as they see fit. (Ord. 92-09,
4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
11-13-7: VARIANCES:
   A.   Definition: A "variance" is a relaxation of the requirements of this
title that are applicable to a particular lot, structure, or use. A so called
"use variance" which would allow a use that is neither permitted nor
conditional in the district in question is not a variance; it is an amendment
and may be granted only as provided in section
11-13-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Application For Variance: Every application for a variance shall be
filed with the zoning administrator on a prescribed form along with the
established fee (see section
11-13-12 of this chapter). The zoning administrator shall properly transmit
said application, together with any advice he might wish to offer to the zoning
board of appeals. The application shall contain sufficient information to allow
the zoning board of appeals to make an informed decision, and shall include, at
a minimum, the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Location of structure/use for which the variance is sought;
      3.   Relationship of said structure/use to existing structures/uses on
adjacent lots;
      4.   Specific sections of this title containing the regulations which, if
strictly applied, will cause a serious problem; and
      5.   Any other pertinent information that the zoning administrator may
require.
   C.   Public Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing: The zoning board of appeals shall hold a public
hearing on each variance request within a reasonable time after the variance
application is submitted to the zoning board of appeals. At the hearing, any
interested party may appear, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
      2.   Notice Requirements: Notice indicating the time, date and place of
the hearing, and the location and nature of the proposed variance shall be
given not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, as follows:
         a.   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property, in the opinion of the zoning board of appeals, would be directly
affected by the proposed variance;
         b.   By publication in a newspaper published in the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village published in LaSalle County.
   D.   Standards For Variances: The zoning board of appeals shall recommend
and the village council shall approve a variance only when such variance is in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of the zoning regulations and only
in cases where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of any of those regulations relating to
the use, construction or alteration of buildings or structures or the use of
the land. The zoning board of appeals shall not recommend any variance unless,
based upon the evidence presented, the board determines that:
      1.   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purpose and
intent of this title;
      2.   Strict application of the district requirements would result in
great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, and the property in
question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted to be used only under
the conditions allowed by the regulations of that zone;
      3.   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties for hardship and allow a
reasonable return on the property;
      4.   Plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances, not of his
own making;
      5.   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, a variance
would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment of this title; and
      6.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question is located nor materially frustrate
implementation of the comprehensive plan of the village.
   E.   Report To Council; Findings Of Fact: The zoning board of appeals shall
render a report to the village council on every variance request within a
reasonable time after the public hearing. Every report rendered by the zoning
board of appeals after hearing shall be accompanied by findings of fact and
shall refer to any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the
proposed variation, which shall remain a part of the permanent records of the
board of appeals. The findings of fact shall specify the reasons for granting
the variation. The terms of the relief recommended shall be specifically set
forth in a conclusion or statement separate from the findings of fact of the
board of appeals. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   F.   Village Council Requirements:
      1.   Action By Council: Upon the report of the zoning board of appeals,
the village council, by ordinance, without further public hearing, may adopt
any proposed variance or may refer it back to the zoning board of appeals for
further consideration. Any proposed variance which fails to receive the
approval of the zoning board of appeals shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of at least four (4) members of the village council.
Furthermore, no variance shall be granted within six (6) months after the date
upon which an official plan is adopted by the village council unless such
variance is approved by a two- thirds (2/3) vote of the village council then
holding office. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Findings Of Fact; Terms Of Relief: Every variance determination of
the village council shall be accompanied by findings of fact and shall refer to
any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the proposed variance,
which shall remain a part of the permanent records of the zoning board of
appeals. The findings of fact shall specify the reasons for granting the
variance. The terms of relief granted shall be specifically set forth in a
conclusion or statement separate from the findings of fact. Property for which
relief has been granted shall not be used in violation of the specific terms of
the ordinance unless its usage is changed by additional ordinances. (Ord. 92-
09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-8: RIGHTS OF VARIANCE AND CONDITIONAL USE APPLICANTS:
Zoning variance and conditional use applicants shall have the following rights:
   A.   To have subpoenas issued by the zoning board of appeals for persons to
appear at board of appeals hearings and for examination of documents by the
person requesting the subpoena either before or at board of appeals hearings
subject to the following restrictions: subpoenas shall only be enforceable
against persons or for documents which have a substantial evidentiary
connection with: 1) the property for which a zoning variance or conditional use
is requested; or 2) facts which would support or negate the requisite legal
standards for granting a variance or conditional use. Service of such subpoenas
shall be made in the same manner as summons in a civil case.
   B.   To cross examine all witnesses testifying.
   C.   To present witnesses on their behalf. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-9: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority: The village council may amend this title in accordance with
state law 1  and the provisions of this section. Proposed alterations of
district boundaries or proposed changes in the status of uses (permitted,
conditional, prohibited) shall be deemed proposed amendments. Amendments may be
proposed by the village council, the administrator, the board of appeals, the
plan commission, or any party in interest. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Filing Amendments; Fee Required: Every proposal to amend this title
shall be filed with the administrator. If the amendment is proposed by a
private individual (i.e., not the village council, plan commission or zoning
administrator), such proposal shall be accompanied by the established fee (see
section
11-13-12 of this chapter). The administrator shall promptly transmit said
proposal, together with any comments or recommendation he may wish to make, to
the zoning board of appeals for a public hearing.
   C.   Public Hearing:
      1.   Time For Hearing: The zoning board of appeals shall hold a public
hearing on every proposed amendment within a reasonable time after said
application is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may
appear either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
      2.   Notice Requirements: Notice indicating the time, date and place of
the hearing, and the nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more
than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, as
follows:
         a.   By first class mail to the applicant.
         b.   By publication in a newspaper published in the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village and published in LaSalle County.
   D.   Advisory Report; Findings Of Fact: Within a reasonable time after the
public hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall submit their advisory report
to the village council. The report shall state the zoning board of appeals'
recommendations regarding adoption of the proposed amendment, and their
reasons. If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the zoning board of appeals
shall include in their advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
      1.   Existing uses and zoning of the property in question;
      2.   Existing uses and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      3.   Suitability of the property in question for uses already permitted
under existing regulations;
      4.   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use;
      5.   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since the property
was initially zoned or last rezoned; and
      6.   The effect the proposed rezoning would have on implementation of the
Leland comprehensive plan.
   E.   Village Council Action:
      1.   Action Generally: The village council shall act on every proposed
amendment at their next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the
zoning board of appeals' advisory report. Without further public hearing, the
village council may pass any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the
zoning board of appeals for further consideration. No amendment shall be
allowed unless approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the village council then
holding office. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
      2.   Action In Case Of Written Protest: In case of a written protest
against any proposed amendment of the regulations or districts, signed and
acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered, is filed with the village clerk, the amendment shall not be passed
except by a favorable vote of at least four (4) members of the village council.
In such cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protestors
on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant's
attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of the applicant and
attorneys shown in the application for the proposed amendment. (Ord. 92-09, 4-
14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14.
11-13-10: COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT:
Any person, firm or corporation applying for an amendment of this title or
applying for a variance or conditional use permit shall be considered to be
engaging in development or land disturbing activity within the meaning of the
community impact statement ordinance of the village 1 , and shall be required
to comply with said community impact statement ordinance in applying for such
amendment, variance, or conditional use, unless the requirement for such
compliance is waived as provided in the community impact statement ordinance.
This requirement shall not apply to amendments, variances, or conditional use
permits initiated by the municipal corporation of the village or any of its
boards or commissions. (Ord. 4-97, 3-4-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
11-13-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority To Appeal: An appeal to the zoning board of appeals may be
taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of
the village. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
   B.   Filing Of Appeal; Record Transmittal: Every appeal shall be taken
within forty five (45) days of the action complained of by filing, with the
zoning administrator and with the zoning board of appeals, a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof, along with the established fee (see section
11-13-12 of this chapter). Not more than five (5) business days after the
notice of appeal has been filed, the zoning administrator shall transmit to the
zoning board of appeals all of the papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Appeal Stays Further Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator
certifies to the zoning board of appeals, after the notice of appeal has been
filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this event,
the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order,
which may be granted by the zoning board of appeals or by a circuit court upon
application and on notice to the zoning administrator, and on due cause shown.
   D.   Public Hearing; Notice Requirements: The zoning board of appeals shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing for the appeal and give due notice
thereof to the party and decide the appeal within a reasonable time. At the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the nature of the
hearing shall be given not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15)
days before hearing, as follows:
      1.   By first class mail to all parties.
      2.   By publication in a newspaper published in the village, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village published in LaSalle County.
   E.   Decision By Board Of Appeals: The zoning board of appeals shall render
a decision on the appeal within a reasonable time after the hearing. The zoning
board of appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made and to that end has all the powers of the zoning administrator. (Ord. 92-
09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-12: FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Payment Of Fees And Costs; Purpose; Fee Schedule: All fees indicated
shall be paid to the village clerk. Said fees are intended to defray the
administrative costs connected with the processing/conducting of the listed
permits/procedures; they do not constitute a tax or other revenue raising
device. Such fees shall be determined by the village council and amended from
time to time in the discretion of the village council, and said fee schedule is
on file with the village clerk. The following applications, permits and
procedures require fees:
   Amendment
   Appeal
   Conditional use permit
   Temporary use permit
   Variance
Zoning certificate of occupancy
Zoning compliance permit
(Ord. 3-05, 7-5-2005)
   B.   Additional Fees And Costs:
      1.   Reimbursement To Village Required: All applicants requesting a
zoning amendment, conditional use permit, or variance shall reimburse the
village for its reasonable costs for engineering, planning, legal and other
professional consultant fees incurred in connection with preparing, studying,
inspecting, reviewing, examining, checking and processing applicant's request
and plans.
      2.   Bills And Invoices:
         a.    All bills for engineering, planning, legal and other
professional consultants shall be submitted to the village council prior to the
village submitting invoices to the applicant for prompt payment by the
applicant.
         b.   All village invoices for said services submitted by the village
to the applicant shall be paid promptly by the applicant, and the obligation to
reimburse the village is binding whether or not the village approves the zoning
amendment, conditional use permit, or variance.
      3.   Zoning Approvals Conditional Upon Payment Of Costs: Notwithstanding
any other ordinance of the village, no zoning amendment, conditional use
permit, or variance shall be deemed to be approved unless and until the
applicant has reimbursed the village for its reasonable costs for engineering,
planning, legal and other professional consultants incurred by the village in
connection with the applicant's request and plans.
      4.   Agreement To Pay:
         a.   At the time an applicant files his application for a zoning
amendment, conditional use permit, or variance, the village officer or employee
receiving the application shall furnish the applicant with a form which shall
read substantially as follows:
The following firm or person realizes that in order for the Village of Leland
to properly review and evaluate requests for zoning amendments, conditional use
permits and variances, it must necessarily utilize the services of engineering,
planning, legal and other professional consultants. Consequently, the
undersigned agrees to pay to the Village of Leland the reasonable costs
incurred by the Village for such services when they pertain to the request of
the undersigned for such zoning amendments, conditional use permits or
variances. It is understood that all invoices for such services submitted by
the village shall be paid promptly and that the obligation to reimburse the
village is binding whether or not the zoning amendments, conditional use
permits, or variances are in fact granted.
         b.   The zoning board of appeals and village council shall not take
any action on any application until the applicant has signed the form as
mentioned above and delivered it to the village officer or employee receiving
the application. (Ord. 3-97, 3-4-1997)
11-13-13: PROCEEDINGS TO PREVENT VIOLATION:
In case any building or structure, including fixtures, is constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building or
structure, including fixtures, or land, is used in violation of this title, the
village council or any owner or tenant of real property, within one thousand
two hundred feet (1,200') in any direction of the property on which the
building or structure is located who shows that his property or person will be
substantially affected by the alleged violation, in addition to other remedies,
may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to: a) prevent the unlawful
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or
use; b) prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land; c) prevent
any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises; or d)
restrain, correct, or abate the violation. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-14: CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Issuance Of Corrective Action Order: Whenever the
zoning administrator finds by inspection or otherwise that any lot, structure,
or use, or work thereon, is in violation of this title, he/she shall so notify
the responsible party and shall order appropriate corrective action.
   B.   Contents Of Order: The order to take corrective action shall be in
writing and shall include:
      1.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      2.   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
      3.   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      4.   The date by which violation must be corrected;
      5.   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference
with the administrator if desired;
      6.   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed, and a statement of the procedure for filing; and
      7.   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the building permit and/or certificate of occupancy and
may result in the imposition of fines.
   C.   Service Of Order: A corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner, occupant, or operator of the offending lot, structure or
use if it is:
      1.   Served upon him personally;
      2.   Sent by registered mail to his last known address; or
      3.   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
   D.   Stop Order: Whenever any work is being done in violation of a building
permit, the administrator's corrective action order may state that the
violation must cease immediately. In such case, the corrective action order is
equivalent to a stop order. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-15: COMPLAINTS:
Whenever any violation of this title occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. The administrator shall record such
complaints, immediately investigate, and, if in his judgment such action is
necessary, institute appropriate corrective action. (Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
11-13-16: PENALTIES:
After three (3) days, (including the day which the order is served) from when
the zoning administrator has issued a corrective action order to a person who
is in violation of this title, the zoning administrator may begin to institute
penalties. Those fines shall be not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) plus costs. Each day that the
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense subject to a
separate fine. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this title. (Ord. 3-97, 3-4-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 14
APPENDICES
SECTION:
11-14-1: Lot Term Illustration
11-14-1: LOT TERM ILLUSTRATION:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1163.gif]
 
(Ord. 92-09, 4-14-1992)
TITLE 12
LAND SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
12-1-4: Preliminary Plat, Final Plat And Compliance Required
12-1-5: Land Subject To Flooding Or Poor Drainage
12-1-6: Dedication Of Land For Public Use
12-1-7: Neighborhood Plans
12-1-8: Blasting
12-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION
CONTROL ORDINANCE FOR THE VILLAGE OF LELAND, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
While it is obvious that regulations are needed to assure orderly extension of
village streets, the other purposes of these regulations are:
   A.   To ensure sound, harmonious subdivision development and community
growth, and to safeguard the interests of the home owner, the subdivider, the
investor and the village.
   B.   To provide permanent assets to the locality and to the village.
   C.   To prevent scattered development beyond existing public utilities and
prevent excessive development costs.
   D.   To assure the development of land for optimum use with necessary
protection against deterioration and obsolescence.
   E.   To provide common grounds of understanding and a sound working
relationship between the village and the subdivider. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application And Jurisdiction Of Provisions: No person shall subdivide
any tract of land which is located within the village or in any unincorporated
area which is located entirely or in part within one and one-half (11/2) miles
of the nearest limits of the village, except in conformity with the provisions
of this title.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The subdivision plans and plats, proposed
improvements to be installed, and all procedures relating thereto, shall in all
respects be in full compliance with the regulations of this title.
   C.   Minimum Requirements: In interpretation and application, the provisions
of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements.
   D.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply: Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this title upon the use of land are either more restrictive or
less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of
this title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
   E.   Abrogation Of Easements, Covenants And Agreements: This title is not
intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement;
provided, that where the regulations of this title are more restrictive or
impose higher standards or requirements than such easements, covenants or other
private agreements, this title shall govern. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-1-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT, FINAL PLAT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out within the
incorporated limits of the village, or within contiguous unincorporated
territory located in LaSalle County lying outside of the corporate limits and
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits of the village as
indicated on the official map, or latest revision thereof, the subdivider or
his agent shall submit both a preliminary and a final subdivision plat to the
village for its approval. The subdivision plats and all procedures relating
thereto shall in all respects be in full compliance with these regulations.
   B.   Until preliminary plats and plan for the subdivision are approved:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land.
      2.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale, nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given.
      3.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, lighting, grading, paving,
or surfacing of streets, shall hereafter be made by any owner or his agent or
by any public service corporation at the request of such owner or his agent.
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-1-5: LAND SUBJECT TO FLOODING OR POOR DRAINAGE:
No plat will be approved for a subdivision which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains poor drainage facilities and which would make
adequate drainage of the lots and streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the
village engineer, make the area safe for occupancy and provide adequate lot and
street drainage, the subdivision may then be approved. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-1-6: DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE:
All offerings or dedications of land to the village for use as streets,
highways, alleys, schools 1 , parks, playgrounds, or other public uses shall be
referred to the plan commission for review and recommendation before being
accepted by the village council or by any other governing authority of the
village. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 2 of this code.
12-1-7: NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS:
Where a tract of land proposed for subdivision is part of a larger, logical
subdivision unit in relation to the village as a whole, the plan commission
may, before approval, cause to be prepared a plan for the entire area or
neighborhood, such plan to be used by the plan commission as an aid in judging
the proposed plat. The village engineer shall cooperate with the plan
commission in the preparation of this plan and shall furnish such surveys and
data as may be necessary. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-1-8: BLASTING:
No blasting shall take place in connection with any work in a subdivision until
appropriate village authorities have been notified and the applicable village
ordinance complied with. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Application Of Provisions
12-2-2: Rules Of Word Construction
12-2-3: Definitions
12-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In the interpretation of this title, the rules and definitions contained in
this chapter shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-2-2: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in
the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece", and "parcel".
   E.   The phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied for". (Ord. 8-
92, 4-14-1992)
12-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A public right of way primarily for vehicular traffic along the side or
in the rear of properties which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting properties.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or shorelines
of waterways, or corporate boundary lines of the village.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings; and
which is designed or intended for shelter, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals, or property.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance from
it, regulated by the front yard requirements of the Leland zoning ordinance.
CROSSWALK: A public right of way located across a block to provide pedestrian
access to adjacent streets or alleys.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having one open end and being permanently terminated
by a vehicular turnaround.
DATUM PLANE: A reference point from which elevations are measured. The "datum
plane" is mean sea level as established by the (USGS) United States geodetic
survey.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
GROSS LAND AREA: The entire area of a development including lots, streets and
alleys, measured to the centerline of any bounding streets.
LAND USE PLAN: The approved land use plan of the village of Leland 1 .
LOT: A parcel of land legally described as a distinct portion or piece of land
of record.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a "through lot", both
street lines shall be deemed front lines.
OFFICIAL MAP: The map showing the streets, highways and parks laid out, adopted
and established by law and any amendments or additions thereto resulting from
the village council action or the approval of subdivision plats.
PARKWAY: A route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles and whose
right of way is or is intended to be developed in a park like character.
PLAN COMMISSION: Refers to the plan commission of the village of Leland 2 .
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel or tract of land, initially under single
ownership or control, which contains two (2) or more principal buildings and
more than one principal use planned and constructed as a unified development
where specific regulations of a given zoning district are modified through the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
PLAT: A plan, map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan for the
subdivision of land is presented and which he submits for approval and intends
to record in final form.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawings and documents presented for final approval as
described in subsection
12-3-4B of this title.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The drawings and documents presented for tentative approval
as described in subsection
12-3-3B of this title.
ROADWAY: The paved area within a street right of way intended for vehicular
traffic, including all curb and gutter facilities.
STREET: A public way other than an alley which affords a primary means of
access to abutting property.
STREET, MAJOR: A street of considerable continuity which serves or is intended
to serve as a major traffic artery.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
highways and major streets and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection to local traffic from fast, through moving traffic on the highways
and major streets.
STREET, MINOR: A street primarily as access to abutting properties.
STREET, PUBLIC: Any major, secondary or minor street which is shown on the
subdivision plat and is or is to be dedicated to public use.
STREET, SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the major street system, including the principal entrance streets of
residential development and streets for circulation within such development.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
public street.
SUBDIVIDER: The person or persons responsible for preparing and recording the
plats of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements
relating thereto as outlined in this title.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land into two (2) or more parts, any of which is
less than two (2) acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
transfer of ownership or building development, including all public streets,
alleys, ways for public service facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds
or other public grounds, and all the tracts, parcels, lots or blocks, and
numbering of all such lots, blocks, or parcels by progressive numbers, giving
their precise dimensions; provided, however, that the following shall not be
considered a subdivision and shall be exempt from the requirements of this
title.
   A.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre, in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   B.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land.
   C.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as right
of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and pipelines which
does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   D.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   E.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
   F.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
   G.   The division of lots of record existing as of July 17, 1959, into no
more than two (2) parts and not involving any new streets or easements of
access; provided, that the two (2) parts meet the requirements of the
applicable zoning ordinance and all other ordinances of the village of Leland.
   H.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of two (2)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
municipal engineering matters. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
2 2. See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-3-1: Application Of Provisions; Compliance Required
12-3-2: Preapplication Procedure
12-3-3: Preliminary Plat
12-3-4: Final Plat
12-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Any owner of land which is within the corporate limits of the village or within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits on unincorporated land,
wishing to divide the same into lots or to resubdivide for the purpose of sale
or assessment, or both, or wishing to dedicate streets, alleys, or other lands
for public use, shall follow the procedures and requirements of this title.
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-3-2: PREAPPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Prior to filing an application for approval of the preliminary plan, the
subdivider shall submit to the office of the plan commission plans and data as
specified below. This step does not require formal application, fee or filing
of plans with the village clerk. The subdivider may request a meeting with the
village plan commission in order to discuss his plans and particular problems.
Preapplication information suggested is as follows:
   A.   General subdivision information shall describe or outline the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to supplement
the submitted plans. This information may include data on existing covenants,
land characteristics, and available community facilities and utilities; and
information describing the subdivision proposal, such as number of residential
lots, typical lot width and depth, price range, business areas, school,
playground and park areas, and other public areas, proposed protective
covenants, and proposed utilities and street improvements.
   B.   Sketch plan on topographic survey shall show in simple sketch form the
proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to existing
conditions. The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil sketch made directly on a
print of the topographic data and contours of not less than five foot (5')
intervals. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-3-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Procedure For Approval:
      1.   The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a preliminary plat, which
plat shall include all of the property owned or controlled by the applicant,
which properties are adjacent to or considered to be contiguous to the proposed
subdivision which, together with improvement plans and other supplementary
material as specified, shall be submitted to the village clerk, with written
application for approval.
      2.   The village council shall, by motion, promptly refer the preliminary
plat to the Leland plan commission and shall, at the same time, instruct the
village engineer to collaborate with the subdivider and the plan commission in
assembling plans for the design and construction of streets and such other
public improvements as are required by this title or any other ordinances. The
plan commission and the village engineer shall review the preliminary plat for
compliance with these regulations and other ordinances of the village, and the
plan commission shall, within ninety (90) days from the date of the application
or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever is later, unless such time is extended by mutual consent:
         a.   Approve or disapprove the proposed preliminary subdivision plat
and submit its written recommendations, which may include the recommendations
of the village engineer, to the village council. If the plat is disapproved,
then within the aforesaid ninety (90) days, the plan commission shall furnish
to the applicant in writing a statement setting forth the reason for the
disapproval and specifying with particularity the aspects in which the proposed
plat fails to conform to the ordinances including the official map.
         b.   If the plan commission finds that changes, additions or
corrections are required on the preliminary plat, the plan commission shall so
advise the subdivider in writing. The subdivider may resubmit the preliminary
plat to the plan commission, without paying an additional fee, for its
consideration at the next meeting of the commission. The plan commission shall
at said meeting approve or disapprove the preliminary plat and submit its
recommendations in writing, which shall, upon request of the plan commission,
include the recommendations of the village engineer, to the village council and
the subdivider.
      3.   If the plat is approved by the plan commission, the village council
shall accept or reject said plat within thirty (30) days after its next regular
meeting following the action of the plan commission.
      4.   The following qualifications shall govern approval of the
preliminary plat:
         a.   Approval of a preliminary plat by the plan commission and village
council is tentative only, involving merely the general acceptability of the
layout as submitted, and shall not qualify as a plat for recording.
         b.   The plan commission and village council may require such changes
or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest of the needs of the
community.
         c.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective a maximum
period of one year unless, upon application of the developer, the village
council grants an extension. The application for said extension shall not
require an additional fee or the submittal of additional copies of the plan of
subdivisions.
   B.   Required Information:
      1.   Topographic Data: Topographic data required as a basis for the
preliminary plat, in subsection B2 of this section, shall include existing
conditions as follows, except when otherwise specified by the plan commission:
         a.   Boundary lines: bearing and distances.
         b.   Easements: location, width and purpose.
         c.   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: name and right of way width
and location; type, width and elevation of surfacing; any legally established
center line elevations; walks, curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
         d.   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: location, size of
sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water mains. If water
mains and sanitary, storm and combined sewers are not on or adjacent to the
tract, indicate the direction and distance to, and the size of nearest usable
facilities.
         e.   The preliminary plat of subdivision shall be accompanied by:
            (1)   A statement that the proposed subdivision (where contiguous)
is or is not to be annexed to the village.
            (2)   Either a preliminary plan for sewer, water and storm sewers
or a written statement setting forth general plans for such improvements and
indicating the method to be used to overcome particular problems that may be
encountered with the development of the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-
1992)
            (3)   Where the sanitary sewage facilities are proposed to be
provided by individual septic systems, percolation tests shall be made on the
property and a report on these tests prepared by an Illinois registered
professional engineer. These tests shall be made at a frequency of one test
hole in each soil type in the subdivision or one test hole for each three (3)
lots, whichever is greater. In no case shall less than two (2) holes be tested.
Tests shall be performed in accordance with the Illinois department of public
health regulations 1 . (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
         f.   Other conditions on the tract: watercourses, marshes, rock
outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot (1') or more in
caliper at one foot (1') above ground level, houses, barns, shacks and other
significant features.
         g.   Other conditions on adjacent land: approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls,
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers, and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; and owner of adjacent
unplatted land (for adjacent platted land, refer to subdivision plat by name,
recording date, and number and show approximate percent built up, typical lot
size and dwelling type).
         h.   Photographs, if required by the plan commission: camera
locations, directions of views and key numbers.
         i.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract.
         j.   Proposed public improvements: highway or other major improvements
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
         k.   Key plan showing location of the tract.
         l.   Title and certificates: present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the county recorder, title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded with names and addresses of owners, notation
stating acreage, scale, and north arrow. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
         m.   Ground elevations on the tract, based on the USGS datum plane.
For land that slopes less than one-half percent (1/2%), show not more than one
foot (1') contours; for land that slopes one-half (0.50) to two percent (2%),
show not more than two foot (2') contours, and for land that slopes more than
two percent (2%), show not less than two foot (2') contours. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-
1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Preliminary Plat: Preliminary plat shall be a scale of one hundred
feet to the inch (1" = 100') or if the area of the subdivision is more than two
hundred (200) acres, two hundred feet to the inch (1" = 200'). It shall show
all existing conditions required in subsection A of this section, topographic
data, and shall show all proposals including the following:
         a.   Streets: Names, rights of way and roadway widths, approximate
grades and gradients, similar data for alleys, if any.
         b.   Other rights of way or easements: location, width, and purpose.
         c.   Location of utilities, if not shown on other exhibits.
         d.   Lot lines, lot dimensions, lot numbers and block numbers.
         e.   Sufficient information to show the intent of surface drainage.
         f.   Sites, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for schools, parks,
playgrounds or other public uses.
         g.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry, or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single- family
dwellings.
         h.   Proposed building setback lines.
         i.   Site data, including number of residential lots, typical lot
size, acres in parks, etc.
         j.   Proposed name of the subdivision.
         k.   Location by section, township and range.
         l.   Name and address of the developer.
         m.   Name and address of the planner or engineer.
         n.   Title, scale, north point and date.
      3.   Other Preliminary Plans: When required by the plan commission, the
preliminary plan shall be accompanied by profiles showing existing ground
surface and proposed street grades, including extensions for a reasonable
distance beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision and typical cross
sections of the proposed sanitary and storm water sewers with grades and sizes
indicated. All elevations shall be based on the USGS datum plane.
      4.   Protective Covenants: Draft of protective covenants, whereby the
subdivider proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise
protect the proposed development. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
      5.   Community Impact Statement: Any person, firm or corporation applying
for an approval of a preliminary plat shall be considered to be engaging in
development or land disturbing activity within the meaning of the community
impact statement ordinance of the village 2 , and shall be required to comply
with said community impact statement ordinance in applying for such approval,
unless the requirement for such compliances is waived as provided in the
community impact statement ordinance. (Ord. 2-97, 3-4-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  12-6-4A of this title.
2 1. See title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
12-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Procedure For Approval:
      1.   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat
as approved and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and
develop at the time; provided however, that such portion conforms to all
requirements of these regulations.
      2.   Application for approval of the final plat, including all
engineering drawings, shall be submitted in writing to the village clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee and engineering review fees as required in
these regulations. The application shall be submitted at least ten (10) days
prior to the meeting of the plan commission for its review and recommendations
and approval or disapproval.
      3.   Four (4) copies of the final engineering plans and specifications
required for approval shall be prepared as specified, and shall be submitted to
the village clerk within one year after approval of the preliminary plat;
otherwise such approval shall become null and void unless application for an
extension of time is made to and granted by the village council. Such
extensions will not require an additional fee or filing of additional copies of
the plat. The village clerk shall promptly notify the plan commission and
provide all necessary information to the plan commission.
      4.   When a person submitting a final plat of subdivision or
resubdivision for final approval has supplied all drawings, maps, and other
documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in support
thereof, the plan commission shall make its recommendation to the village
council within twenty one (21) days from the date of filing the last required
document or other paper or within twenty one (21) days from the date of filing
application for final approval of the plat, whichever date is later. (Ord. 2-
97, 3-4-1997)
      5.   Filing:
         a.   Together with any recommendation from the plan commission, one
tracing of the final plat of the subdivision, drawn in ink on Mylar, and at
least eight and one-half inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") but not more
than thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36") in size, shall be submitted
to the village council for approval. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
         b.   When a person submitting a final plat of subdivision or
resubdivision for final approval has supplied all drawings, maps, and other
documents required by the village ordinances to be furnished in support
thereof, and if all such material meets all village requirements, the corporate
authorities shall approve the proposed plat within sixty (60) days from the
date of filing the last required document or other paper or within sixty (60)
days from the date of filing application for final approval of the plat,
whichever date is later. The applicant and the corporate authorities may
mutually agree to extend the sixty (60) day period.
If the preliminary or final plat is approved, the village clerk shall attach a
certified copy of the order or resolution of approval to a copy of the plat. If
the proposed plat is disapproved, the order or resolution shall state the
reasons for the disapproval, specifying with particularity the aspects in which
the proposed plat fails to conform to the official map. A copy of the order or
resolution shall be filed in the office of the village clerk.
         c.   Upon approval by the village council, the subdivider shall record
the plat with the county recorder within three (3) months. If not recorded
within this time, the approval shall be null and void. Immediately after
recording, the original tracing or a duly certified cloth reproducible copy
shall be filed with the village.
   B.   Required Information:
      1.   Final Plat: Final plat shall be drawn in ink on Mylar not to exceed
twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") and shall be at a minimum
scale of one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100'). Where necessary, the plat
may be on several sheets accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire
subdivision. For large subdivisions, the final plat may be submitted for
approval progressively in contiguous sections satisfactory to the plan
commission. The final plat shall show the following:
         a.   Primary control points, approved by the village engineer, or
descriptions and "ties" to such control points, to which all dimensions,
angles, bearings, and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
         b.   Tract boundary lines, right of way lines of streets, easements,
and other rights of way, and property lines of residential lots and other
sites, with accurate dimensions, bearings or deflection angles and radii, arcs,
and central angles of all curves.
         c.   Name and right of way width of each street or other right of way.
         d.   Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easement.
         e.   Number to identify each lot or site and block.
         f.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved.
         g.   Proposed building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
         h.   Location and description of monuments.
         i.   Certification by a registered Illinois land surveyor certifying
to accuracy of the survey and plat.
         j.   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due
on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full.
         k.   Certification of title showing that applicant is the land owner.
         l.   Approval by signatures of the village council and state officials
concerned with the specifications of utility installations.
         m.   Approval by signature of the village council. Such approval shall
be as follows:
Approved by the Village Council of the Village of Leland, Illinois this      
day of                , 200  .
(signed)
                  Mayor
ATTEST:                                        
                     Village Clerk
This approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or effect an
acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other proposed
public way or space shown on the plat.
         n.   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights of way and any
sites for public use.
         o.   Name of subdivision.
         p.   Location by section, township and range.
         q.   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
      2.   Cross Sections And Profiles Of Streets: Cross sections and profiles
of streets showing grades approved by the village engineer. The profiles shall
be drawn to village standards. The scales and elevations shall be based on the
USGS datum plane.
      3.   Protective Covenants: Protective covenants in form for recording.
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
      4.   Grading Plan: The final plat shall be accompanied by a grading plan
showing contour levels and finished floor elevations. (Ord. 28-96, 8-6-1996)
      5.   Community Impact Statement: Any person, firm or corporation applying
for an approval of a final plat shall be considered to be engaging in
development or land disturbing activity within the meaning of the community
impact statement ordinance of the village 1 , and shall be required to comply
with said community impact statement ordinance in applying for such approval,
unless the requirement for such compliances is waived as provided in the
community impact statement ordinance. (Ord. 2-97, 3-4-1997)
      6.   Other Data: Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or
dedications as may be required by the plan commission in the enforcement of
these regulations. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Compliance With Village Plan
12-4-2: Streets
12-4-2-1: Table Of Minimum Standards
12-4-3: Alleys
12-4-4: Easements
12-4-5: Blocks
12-4-6: Lots
12-4-7: Building Setback Lines
12-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE PLAN:
The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent, width,
grade and location of all highways, streets, alleys, crosswalks, easements,
sites for parks, playgrounds and schools, or other land to be dedicated for
public use, shall conform to the land use plan of the village, approved by the
plan commission and adopted by the village council 1 . (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 9 of this code.
12-4-2: STREETS:
   A.   Considerations: All streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public
convenience and safety and in their relation to the proposed uses of the land
to be served by such streets.
   B.   Arrangement:
      1.   Where such is not shown on the land use plan, the arrangement of
streets in a subdivision shall either:
         a.   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding area; or
         b.   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood approved or
adopted by the plan commission to meet a particular situation where
topographical or other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing
streets impracticable.
      2.   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   C.   Abutment Of Highways, Major Thoroughfares And Railroads:
      1.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
highway or major thoroughfare, as shown on the land use plan, the plan
commission may require marginal access streets, double frontage with screen
planting contained in a nonaccess reservation at least ten feet (10') wide
along the rear property line, deep lots with rear service alleys, or such other
treatment as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential properties
and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
      2.   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad or highway,
the plan commission may require a street approximately parallel to and on each
side of such railroad or highway, at a distance suitable for the appropriate
use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential districts, or
for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts. Such distances
shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of approach
grades and future grade separations.
   D.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to public utilities,
streets, or alleys shall be prohibited.
   E.   Intersections:
      1.   All street intersections and confluences should encourage safe
traffic flow.
      2.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at less than
sixty degrees (60°).
   F.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   G.   Tangents: Tangents shall be introduced between reverse curves on all
major and secondary streets (see table of minimum standards, section
12-4-2-1 of this chapter).
   H.   Deflecting Street Lines: When connecting street lines deflect from each
other at any one point by more than ten degrees (10°), they shall be connected
by a curve with a radius adequate to ensure clear sight distances (see table of
minimum standards, section
12-4-2-1 of this chapter).
   I.   Right Of Way Width: Street right of way width shall be as specified in
the table of minimum standards.
   J.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited with the following
exception: wherever an existing half street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   K.   Dead End Streets (Cul-De-Sacs): Dead end streets (cul-de- sacs),
designed to be so permanently shall not be longer than six hundred feet (600')
from the intersection of the origin through the center of the circle to the end
of the right of way, unless approved as part of a planned development, and
shall be provided at the closed end with a paved turnaround having an outside
pavement diameter of at least eighty eight feet (88') and a street property
line diameter of at least one hundred twenty feet (120').
   L.   Street Names: No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be
confused with names of existing streets. Existing street names shall be used
wherever possible when the street is extended or in the same alignment. Street
names shall be subject to approval of the plan commission.
   M.   Grades And Vertical Curves:
      1.   Street gradients and vertical curves shall be as specified in the
engineering specifications, section
12-6-8 of this title.
      2.   Street grades shall provide proper relation between the street and
the first floor elevation of the houses or buildings and permit convenient and
economical access to and drainage of the lots. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-4-2-1:TABLE OF MINIMUM STANDARDS:
   TABLE OF MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN
       Clear    Right                     Length   Tangent
       Sight    Of    Pavement Radius Of  Of       Between    Minimum  Maximum
Street Street   Way   Width1   Horizontal Vertical Horizontal Gradient Gradient
       Distance Width          Curves     Curves   Reverse
                                                   Curves
           Clear    Right                     Length   Tangent
           Sight    Of    Pavement Radius Of  Of       Between    Minimum  Maximum
Street     Street   Way   Width1   Horizontal Vertical Horizontal Gradient Gradient
           Distance Width          Curves     Curves   Reverse
                                                       Curves
Major      500 feet 100   48 feet2 500 feet   3        100 feet   3        3
                    feet
Collector  400 feet 80    40 feet  400 feet   3        100 feet   3        3
                    feet
Minor      200 feet 66    28 feet  150 feet   3        - - - -    3        3
                    feet
Cul-de-sac 200 feet 66    28 feet  150 feet   3        - - - -    3        3
                    feet
Marginal   200 feet 40    24 feet  400 feet   3        100 feet   3        3
access              feet
Business            80-
districts  500 feet 100   40 feet1 500 feet   3        200 feet   3        3
                    feet
Industrial          80-
districts  500 feet 100   40 feet1 500 feet   3        200 feet   3        3
                    feet
 
Notes to table:
   1.    Pavement widths are measured back to back of curb.
   2.    Or two 24-foot roadways, divided by a median strip.
   3.    See engineering specifications, section
12-6-8 of this title.
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-4-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Business And Industrial Districts: In commercial, business and
industrial districts, definite and assured provisions shall be made for service
access such as off street loading, unloading, and parking consistent and
adequate for the uses proposed. If, in the opinion of the plan commission, such
facilities are not adequate, the plan commission may permit or require the
dedication and improvement of a public alley.
   B.   Residential Districts: Alleys in residential areas shall not be
permitted, except where deemed necessary and on the recommendation of the plan
commission.
   C.   Width: The width of an alley, where permitted or required, shall be
twenty feet (20') in residential areas and thirty feet (30') in commercial and
industrial districts.
   D.   Alley Intersections And Alignment: Alley intersections and sharp
changes in alley alignment shall be avoided.
   E.   Dead End Alleys: Dead end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but
if unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at
the dead end, as determined by the plan commission. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-4-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Easements Required: Easements across lots or centered on rear or side
lot lines shall be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least
ten feet (10') wide.
   B.   Design: Easements shall be designed to provide continuity from block to
block.
   C.   Storm Water And Drainage Easements: Where subdivisions and/or parcels
abut a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, storm water easements or
drainage right of way conforming substantially with the line of such
watercourse shall be provided. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-4-5: BLOCKS:
   A.   Design Considerations: The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall
be determined with due regard to:
      1.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs
of the type of use contemplated.
      2.   Zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions within corporate
limits of the village.
      3.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
   B.   Length: Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand six hundred feet
(1,600') and should not be less than eight hundred feet (800'); except, that
the plan commission may vary this requirement when it finds that the block
layout does not cause adverse travel distance for pedestrians or vehicles.
   C.   Crosswalks: Pedestrian crosswalks not less than ten feet (10') wide may
be required where deemed necessary by the plan commission to provide for
pedestrian circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation and other community facilities.
   D.   Commercial And Industrial Blocks: Blocks or portions thereof intended
for commercial or industrial use shall be designated as such, and the plan
shall show adequate off street areas to provide for parking, loading docks, and
other such facilities. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-4-6: LOTS:
   A.   Design: The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated.
   B.   Compliance With Zoning Regulations: Lot dimensions and areas shall
conform to the requirements of the Leland zoning ordinance.
   C.   Lots Abutting Water Ways: Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream shall have a minimum width or depth as required to provide an
adequate building site and to afford the minimum usable area required in this
title or the Leland zoning ordinance for front, side and rear yards.
   D.   Corner Lots: All corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than others
so as to allow for building setback lines on both streets.
   E.   Front On Public Street: All lots shall abut on a publicly dedicated
street, except as approved as part of a planned unit development.
   F.   Double Frontage And Reverse Frontage Lots: Double frontage and reverse
frontage lots shall be avoided except where essential to provide separation of
residential development from highways or primary thoroughfares or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen
easement of at least ten feet (10'), and across which there shall be no right
of vehicular access, shall be provided along the rear lot lines of lots
abutting such highways and major thoroughfares.
   G.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
or radial to street lines. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
   H.   Lot Grade: Lots shall be graded so that the finished floor elevation
shall be no greater than two feet (2') above the elevation of the centerline of
the adjoining street, unless approved to the contrary by the village engineer
or village building inspector. (Ord. 28-96, 8-6-1996)
12-4-7: BUILDING SETBACK LINES:
Building setback lines in residential areas of new subdivisions shall conform
to the front yard provisions of the Leland zoning ordinance; except, that in no
case shall the building setback line be less than thirty feet (30') from the
front property line. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Agreements; Guarantee Of Improvements
12-5-2: Certificate Of Approval
12-5-3: Supervision Of Work
12-5-4: Required Utilities
12-5-5: Underground Utilities
12-5-6: Streets
12-5-7: Sidewalks
12-5-8: Monuments And Markers
12-5-9: Landscaping
12-5-10: Soils Investigations
12-5-11: Street Lighting
12-5-12: Inspection Of Improvements
12-5-13: Acceptance Of Improvements
12-5-1: AGREEMENTS; GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The Leland plan commission shall submit the final plat along with its
recommendations to the village council, and the council shall approve such
final plat before recording, and such approval shall not be given until the
subdivider has complied with the requirements of this and other sections and
all other ordinances. No building permit shall be issued until the final plat
has been recorded.
      1.   After approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall present
plans and specifications for all improvements to the village engineer for
approval. Upon approval by the village engineer, and by all other pertinent
authorities, the subdivider may construct and install all such improvements. On
approval and certification of completion by the village engineer of such
improvements, and within one year after approval of preliminary plat, the final
plat shall be submitted as herein provided for approval and, upon approval,
shall be recorded. If engineering plans require substantial changes from the
preliminary plan, as approved, the subdivider shall revise and resubmit the
preliminary plat, prior to constructing the improvements, for reapproval, and
such resubmissions shall not require the payment of additional fees.
      2.   In lieu of actual construction of the improvements, as provided in
subsection A1 of this section, the subdivider may post with the village clerk
cash, negotiable securities, or a surety bond with sureties acceptable to the
plan commission and the village council in an amount sufficient to cover the
full cost of said improvements as estimated by the village engineer and
conditioned on the completion and acceptance by the village engineer of all
improvements within two (2) years from the approval of the final plat. Upon
acceptance of such bond, approval of plans and specifications for all
improvements by the village engineer, and approval by the plan commission and
village council of the final plat, such plat may then be recorded.
      3.   In lieu of the provisions of subsections A1 and A2 of this section,
the subdivider may submit with his plans and specifications for all
improvements and his final plat, evidence of a binding agreement with a
responsible contractor for the installation of all such improvements within two
(2) years after the approval of the final plat, together with a performance
bond with sureties or letter of credit acceptable to the plan commission and
the village council. The plat may then be recorded.
      4.   In lieu of subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this section, the subdivider
may petition, in appropriate cases, for the installation of all improvements by
special assessment, and shall provide a purchaser for all bonds issued
thereunder. On a sale of such bonds for par or more and on approval of the
final plat by the plan commission and the village council, such plat may be
recorded.
   B.   1. The subdivider shall in all cases be responsible for the maintenance
of all improvements for one year following their acceptance by the village, and
shall be responsible for roadway improvements for three (3) years following
their acceptance by the village. Responsibilities shall include up to fifty
percent (50%) of the proportionate share during year two (2) and up to twenty
five percent (25%) of the proportionate share during year three (3).
"Proportionate share" is defined as the number of lots held by the developer at
the time that the damage occurs divided by the total number of lots in the
subdivision.
      2.   The developer shall guarantee such maintenance by posting cash or
negotiable securities in the amount of five percent (5%) of the cost of such
improvements or a surety bond with sureties approved by the plan commission and
the village council in the amount of twenty percent (20%) of the cost of such
improvements. The amount of the cash, negotiable securities or surety bonds may
be reduced by one-third (1/3) during each of the subsequent years of the
warranty period by approval of the village council. (Year 1 - 0% reduction,
year 2 - 331/3% reduction, year 3 - 662/3% reduction.)
      3.   The fulfillment of this requirement is a condition to approval of
the final plat, and is in addition to the requirements of subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-2: CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
No subdivision of land shall be approved by the plan commission without the
subdivider submitting a statement signed by the village engineer certifying
that the improvements described in the subdivider's plans and specifications,
together with agreements, meet the minimum requirements of all engineering
ordinances of the village and that they comply with chapter 6 of this title.
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-3: SUPERVISION OF WORK:
The design engineer engaged by the subdivider, builder or land developer shall
be responsible for and shall establish all lines and grades for the proposed
improvements. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-4: REQUIRED UTILITIES:
   A.   Storm Sewers:
      1.   The design of the drainage system within the development shall
anticipate and provide capacity for other drainage from naturally tributary
land. Such design shall provide adequate capacity for transmitting such
drainage from the other tributary areas on the basis of the ultimate
development of such other tributary areas, but such drainage system need not
make provision for the retention of drainage from other tributary areas.
      2.   See engineering specifications (sections
12-6-3 and
12-6-4 of this title).
   B.   Water Supply:
      1.   All residential, commercial, industrial and community facility
buildings or structures shall be served by an adequate water supply and
distribution system. The design of the system shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the state environmental protection agency, division of public
water supplies.
      2.   See engineering specifications (section
12-6-6 of this title).
   C.   Individual Sewage Disposal Systems:
      1.   In all cases where private individual sanitary sewer systems are to
be used, the developer shall secure the necessary permits for installation and
operation of the system from the LaSalle County department of public health.
      2.   See engineering specifications (sections
12-6-3 and
12-6-4 of this title). (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-5: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed
underground entirely throughout a subdivided area. Said conduits or cables
shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which
will not conflict with other underground services. Further, all transformer
boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
The utility lines shall be parallel to and not less than twelve inches (12")
from the property lines. Corner markers, as required in section
12-5-8 of this chapter, shall not be disturbed by the installation of utility
lines. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-6: STREETS:
   A.   Street Design: Street design shall be in accordance with the table of
minimum standards (see section
12-4-2-1 of this title).
   B.   Curbs At Street Intersections: All curb returns at street intersections
shall have a radius of not less than twenty feet (20') and at important
intersections, not less than twenty five feet (25'). In industrial and
commercial areas, the radius of curb returns shall be not less than twenty five
feet (25') and shall be increased to thirty feet (30') at important
intersections. There shall be a distance of not less than five feet (5')
maintained between the curb return radius and the property line.
   C.   Street Signs: Street signs as per village specifications shall be
installed at each intersection and shall indicate the street names as shown on
the final plat. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-7: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Materials And Location: Concrete sidewalks shall be provided throughout
the subdivision to serve the anticipated needs of its residents. Such walks
shall be located in accordance with proper land planning procedures and with
due regard for public safety and anticipated concentration of pedestrian
traffic.
   B.   Specifications: All sidewalks shall be not less than four feet (4') in
width and shall be located so that a parkway separates the curbs from the
sidewalk, except in business developments. (See engineering specifications,
section
12-6-11 of this title.) (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-8: MONUMENTS AND MARKERS:
A minimum of two (2) concrete monuments shall be placed along the outside
boundary of the subdivision. The monuments shall be of concrete, not less than
six inches (6") in diameter and thirty six inches (36") deep, with a one-half
inch (1/2") diameter rebar thirty inches (30") long cast in place. Iron pipe or
steel bars not less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter and thirty inches
(30") long shall be set at the intersection of street centerlines and at all
corners of lots not marked by monuments. The monuments and markers shall be set
level with the finished grade. The subdivider shall replace all or verify the
existence of the iron pipes at all lot corners and all bends in property lines
after the completion of all construction and before final acceptance of the
subdivision. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-9: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Grass Requirements: All unpaved areas within the street rights of way
shall be seeded or sodded. Before the release of the twelve (12) month
maintenance bond can be recommended by the village engineer, all unpaved areas
between the edge of the road pavement and the right of way line must support an
adequate mat of grass in accordance with the following: seeded and sodded areas
shall be watered, reseeded, edged, and mowed, as required to assure a neat
appearance and a healthy, vigorous growth. The first mowing shall not be done
until the grass is generally two inches (2") but less than three inches (3")
high. For the first mowing and all subsequent mowings, the mower shall be set
to cut at a height of one and one-half inches (11/2"). Subsequent mowings, as
required, shall be done before the grass is three inches (3") high.
   B.   Street Trees:
      1.   Street trees shall be planted on both sides of each proposed street,
except where there are existing trees present and preserved. Street trees newly
planted shall be not further apart than fifty feet (50') or one tree per inside
lot and two (2) trees on corner lots, and the type of tree shall be limited to
those varieties as approved by the plan commission.
      2.   Newly planted street trees shall not be less than one inch (1") in
caliper, measured one foot (1') from the ground.
      3.   The planting of the following species of trees shall be prohibited:
Soft maple     (Acer dasycarpum) In variety
Poplar         (Poputus)         All varieties
Willow         (Salix)           All varieties
Box elder      (Acer negundo)    All varieties
Catalpa        (Catalpa)         All varieties
Tree of heaven (Ailanthus)       All varieties
Mountain ash   (Sorbus)          All varieties
Mulberry       (Morbus alba)     In variety
 
   C.   Protective Screens: Protective screen planting may be required to
secure a reasonably effective physical barrier between residential properties
and adjoining uses to minimize adverse conditions of sight and sound. The
screen planting plan shall be prepared, submitted, and shall meet the approval
of the plan commission. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-10: SOILS INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   If the subdivision contains questionable soil, and in the opinion of
the plan commission, soils investigations, borings or other soils tests are
necessary to determine the nature and extent of such questionable material, the
owner or developer shall retain or cause to be retained the services of a
competent testing laboratory to perform the needed investigations.
   B.   Copies of the completed reports prepared by the testing laboratory
shall be filed with the plan commission.
   C.   The plan commission shall have no liability for costs connected with
the tests, borings or interpretations of results of such work. (Ord. 8-92, 4-
14-1992)
12-5-11: STREET LIGHTING:
See engineering specifications, section
12-6-13 of this title. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-12: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Inspections Required: All public improvements proposed to be made under
the provisions of this title shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the village engineer.
   B.   Notice Of Inspection: During the course of construction of the
improvement, the subdivider shall be required to notify the village engineer
forty eight (48) hours before the inspection of all utilities.
   C.   Inspection Fees: The subdivider shall pay the cost of all inspection
services. The fees shall be established by the village, based on current rates
and standard engineering practice. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-5-13: ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon completion of the construction of all public improvements required by this
title, in conformance with approved engineering plans and specifications, the
design engineer engaged by the subdivider, builder or land developer shall
prepare and submit to the village three (3) sets of as built plans and
certification by the village engineer that all public improvements have been
satisfactorily completed in accordance with the approved engineering plans and
specifications. The village council will enact a resolution accepting said
improvements. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 6
ENGINEERING SPECIFICATIONS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Compliance With Village Standards
12-6-2: Certificate Of Approval
12-6-3: Public Sewers
12-6-4: Individual Disposal Systems
12-6-5: Manholes And Drainage Appurtenances
12-6-6: Water Supply
12-6-7: Trench Backfill
12-6-8: Street Improvements
12-6-9: Frontage Roads And Parking Areas
12-6-10: Alleys
12-6-11: Sidewalks
12-6-12: Cross Walkways
12-6-13: Street Lighting Improvements
12-6-14: Filing Engineering Plans And Review Fee
12-6-1: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE STANDARDS:
The owner or subdivider shall install storm sewers, water supply system, street
grading and pavement, alleys, cross walkways, public utilities, and street
lighting in accordance with applicable ordinances and standards of construction
of the village. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-2: CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement signed
by the village engineer, certifying that the improvements described in the
subdivider's plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all engineering ordinances of the village and that they
comply with the following: all work to be constructed as part of any
subdivision under this chapter shall be constructed in accordance with the
applicable portion of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", adopted July 1, 1988, by the Illinois department of
transportation and the "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois", fourth edition, dated May 1986 or the latest revised
edition of either set of specifications. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-3: PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Sanitary Sewers: All sanitary sewer construction shall be in accordance
with the applicable portions of the "Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in Illinois", fourth edition or the latest edition
thereof and the 1986 private sewage disposal licensing act and code 1  as
published by the Illinois department of public health and any revisions thereto
provided by the LaSalle or DeKalb county health department.
   B.   Storm Sewers: All storm sewer construction shall be in accordance with
the applicable portions of the "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction", adopted July 1, 1988, by the Illinois department of
transportation or the latest revision thereof. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
12-6-4: INDIVIDUAL DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Percolation Tests 1 : The subdivider shall be required to have
percolation tests performed on the property by an Illinois registered
professional engineer. The tests shall be made at the frequency of one test
hole in each soil type in the subdivision, or one test hole for each three (3)
lots, whichever is greater. In no case shall less than two (2) holes be tested.
Tests shall be performed in accordance with Illinois department of public
health regulations.
   B.   Design: Individual disposal systems shall be designed for each lot in
the subdivision based upon a minimum of two (2) percolation tests.
   C.   Permit Requirements: A construction permit will not be issued by the
LaSalle County health department until a completed application and the
appropriate fee have been submitted and an on site survey has been performed by
department personnel.
   D.   Storm Sewers:
      1.   Storm sewers may be required throughout the entire subdivision to
carry off water from all inlets and catch basins and shall be connected to an
adequate outfall. Intercepting storm water structures shall be provided at
intervals not in excess of four hundred feet (400'), as measured along the
gutter line. The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent
of the sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers shall be constructed in accordance
with applicable portions of section 603 of the standard specifications for road
and bridge construction. Existing drain tiles shall be connected to storm
sewers or shall be restored to operating condition.
      2.   Storm sewer capacities shall be determined with the use of the
rational formula. The intensity (I factor) used shall be a return frequency of
not less than five (5) years. The runoff coefficient (C factor) shall be
determined by the character of the land to be drained and shall conform to
accepted standard engineering practices. Street grades and lot and block
drainage shall be established so as to permit positive drainage. (Ord. 8-92, 4-
14-1992)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection
  12-3-3B1e(3) of this title
12-6-5: MANHOLES AND DRAINAGE APPURTENANCES:
   A.   Manholes: Manholes for sewers eighteen inches (18") and smaller shall
have an inside diameter of forty eight inches (48"), and a six inch (6") thick
precast concrete base, in one piece, bedded in at least two inches (2") of
gravel or crushed stone. The sidewalls shall be of precast concrete ring
construction which shall have a five inch (5") minimum thickness. Manhole bases
for sewers with an internal diameter of forty two inches (42") and larger shall
be constructed of reinforced concrete and shall have an inside diameter of
sixty inches (60").
   B.   Catch Basins And Inlets: Catch basin sidewall and base construction
shall conform with the standard specifications for road and bridge construction
and the applicable highway standards.
   C.   Frames And Grates: Frames and grates for manholes, catch basins, inlets
and valve vaults shall conform with the standard specifications for road and
bridge construction and the applicable highway standards. Open curb casting may
be used based on approval of the village council. The frames shall be set in a
full mortar joint on each structure.
   D.   Storm Water Detention:
      1.   Storm Water Detention Required: A combination of storage and
controlled release of storm water runoff shall be required for all
nonresidential developments of two (2) or more acres in area, for all multiple-
family developments of two (2) or more acres in area, and all single-family
developments of five (5) acres or more in area.
      2.   Release Rate: The release rate of storm water from all development
requiring detention shall not exceed the storm water runoff rate from the area
in its natural, undeveloped state. A release rate of not greater than that
calculated from a two (2) year rainfall with a runoff rate coefficient of
fifteen one- hundredths (0.15) will be acceptable. The minimum size of the
discharge outlet shall be four inches (4").
      3.   Capacity Of Bypass: Storm sewer systems, streams and channels shall
have an adequate capacity of bypass through the development for the flow from
all upstream areas for a storm design frequency, assuming that the land is in a
fully developed state under present zoning and/or land use proposed under the
comprehensive plan. The bypass flow rate shall be computed utilizing a runoff
coefficient of not less than thirty five one- hundredths (0.35). An allowance,
equivalent to the reduction in flow rate provided, will be made for upstream
detention, which such upstream detention and release rate has previously been
approved by the village and has been constructed.
      4.   Storage Volume; Additional Detention:
         a.   The live detention storage to be provided shall be calculated on
the basis of a type II 100-year, 24-hour rainfall, as published by the U.S.
weather bureau, TP-40 for this area. The detention volume required shall be
that necessary to temporarily store the runoff of the 100-year, 24-hour
rainfall from the fully developed drainage area tributary to the reservoir,
less the volume discharged during the same duration at the approved release
rate.
         b.   In the event the downstream streams and channels are inadequate
to receive the release rate hereinabove provided, then the allowable release
rate shall be reduced to that rate permitted by the receiving downstream
sewers, streams and channels, and additional detention, as determined by the
village engineer, shall be required to store that portion of the runoff
exceeding the capacity of the receiving sewers, streams and channels.
      5.   Plans, Specifications And Calculations:
         a.   Plans, specifications and calculations for storm water detention
facilities as required herein shall be submitted to the plan commission and
village engineer for approval prior to the commencement of construction.
         b.   The method to be used for calculating the volumes of water to be
stored and/or released shall be technical release (TR) 55, by the soil
conservation service, U.S. department of agriculture.
         c.   All information and data required and submitted shall be prepared
and bear the seal of an Illinois licensed professional engineer. (Ord. 8-92, 4-
14-1992)
12-6-6: WATER SUPPLY 1 :
Water distribution facilities, including piping, fittings, hydrants, valves,
valve basins, water services and all other needful appurtenances adequate for
fire and domestic needs, shall be installed to serve all properties within the
subdivision. Materials to be used shall be as herein specified or as specified
in the standard specifications for water and sewer construction in Illinois.
The developer shall be responsible for all costs incurred in connecting to and
extending existing village water mains.
   A.   Water Mains: Water mains shall be of a minimum six inches (6") internal
diameter. The minimum depth of water mains from the top of pipe to finished
grade shall be five and one-half feet (51/2'). Materials for PVC plastic water
pipe shall be SDR18, AWWA C900 with a copper tracer wire or as approved by the
village council.
   B.   Valves And Vaults: Valves shall be nonrising stem gate valves with
operating nut, designed to take full pressure on either face, furnished in full
compliance with AWWA C500. All valves shall open by turning to the left. Valves
shall operate at a working pressure of one hundred fifty (150) pounds per
square inch. Valves four inches (4") through ten inches (10") shall be Mueller
A2370-20, mechanical joint resilient seal valves with a two inch (2") square
operating nut-open left or Clow resilient wedge valves, with a two inch (2")
square operating nut-open left or as approved by the village council. Valve
boxes shall be Tyler 6645 cast iron two (2) piece box or as approved by the
village council.
   C.   Hydrants:
      1.   Hydrants shall be of the compression or gate type conforming to AWWA
C502 and shall be of a make that has been adopted by the village as standard.
Hydrants shall be designed for a three hundred (300) pound test pressure and a
one hundred fifty (150) pound working pressure.
      2.   Hydrants shall be furnished with two and one-half inch (21/2") hose
nozzles and one four inch (4") steamer nozzle. Threads on nozzles and caps and
operating nuts shall be national standard threads. Hydrants shall open by
turning to the left and shall be so marked.
      3.   Hydrants shall have a six inch (6") pipe connection, a five inch
(5") valve opening and shall be equipped with auxiliary valves. Auxiliary valve
shall be attached to hydrant with one hundred twenty five (125) pound standard
flanges. Joint for joining the auxiliary valve shall be of the same type as
specified for the piping system. All hydrants shall be painted to conform with
state specifications.
      4.   Standard hydrant shall be a Mueller centurion hydrant no. A423, six
foot (6'0") trench depth, one and one-half inch (11/2") pentagon operating nut
or a Clow medallion hydrant six foot (6'0") trench depth or as approved by the
village council.
   D.   Water Services: All water services shall be constructed of type K
copper pipe, having a minimum internal diameter of three- quarter inch (3/4").
Such services shall be equipped with corporation cock, curb stops and other
necessary fittings in accordance with village standards. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  9-1-5B of this code.
12-6-7: TRENCH BACKFILL 1 :
   A.   All trenches caused by the construction of sewers, water mains, water
service pipes, and in excavations around catch basins, manholes, inlets and
other appurtenances which occur within the limits of existing or proposed
pavements, sidewalks and curb and gutters shall be backfilled with trench
backfill. Trench backfill shall consist of sand or fill sand and shall be
compacted in place to ninety five percent (95%) of maximum density at optimum
moisture as determined by the standard proctor test.
   B.   Trenches and excavations occurring within two feet (2') of the limits
of proposed or existing pavements, sidewalks and curb and gutters shall be
backfilled with trench backfill to an elevation equal to the intersection of a
two to one (2:1) slope line from the top of the pavement, sidewalks or curb
edge, with a vertical line through the nearest edge of the trench or
excavation. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-3-5 of this code.
12-6-8: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The full width of the right of way shall be graded to the required
section.
   B.   All unsuitable subbase material shall be removed and shall be replaced
with stable, compacted material in conformance with generally accepted
engineering practices.
   C.   The centerline grade shall be not less than zero point thirty six
percent (0.36%), and shall not exceed six percent (6%) on primary and secondary
streets and eight percent (8%) on minor streets and cul-de-sac streets.
   D.   Vertical curves shall be used whenever a change in centerline gradient
occurs, except where the algebraic difference in gradients is one percent (1%)
or less. The length of vertical curve on minor streets shall be forty feet
(40') for each one percent (1%) of algebraic difference of grade, but in no
case shall such length be less than forty feet (40'). The length of vertical
curve on collector streets shall be fifty feet (50') for each one percent (1%)
of algebraic difference of grade, but in no case shall such length be less than
fifty feet (50').
   E.   All pavement thicknesses, including surface, base courses and subbase
courses, shall be designed in accordance with section 7, pavement design, of
the design manual as prepared by the Illinois department of transportation,
bureau of design and the latest revisions thereof. The minimum thicknesses for
residential streets shall be as specified therein. Design data shall be
submitted to the village engineer, together with copies of soils test reports,
at the time of plan submittal.
   F.   Pavements in or bordering industrial and/or commercial areas shall be
designed based upon projected traffic volumes and shall be constructed of the
following minimum thicknesses and materials:
      1.   Standard reinforced Portland cement concrete pavement having a
uniform thickness of ten inches (10"). Concrete for such pavement shall have a
minimum fourteen (14) day compressive strength of three thousand five hundred
(3,500) pounds per square inch, shall contain not less than six (6) bags of
cement per cubic yard of concrete and shall contain not less than three percent
(3%) nor more than six percent (6%) entrained air. Slump shall be not less than
two inches (2") nor more than four inches (4").
      2.   Eight inch (8") thick bituminous aggregate mixture base course and a
wearing surface of bituminous concrete binder and surface course having a
minimum compacted thickness of three inches (3").
      3.   Ten inch (10") thick gravel or crushed stone base course (aggregate
base course, type B) having a wearing surface of bituminous concrete binder and
surface course, class 1, having a minimum compacted thickness of three inches
(3").
   G.   Curbs and gutters shall be constructed on all streets and shall be
combination (integral) concrete of the mountable type not less than eighteen
inches (18") in overall width. Curbs may be constructed integrally with the
Portland cement concrete pavement. Concrete for curb and gutter shall conform
to that hereinafter required for concrete sidewalk. Three (3) five- eighths
inch (5/8") reinforcing bars ten feet (10') long shall be installed in all curb
and gutter, centered, over each sewer and water trench crossed by the curb and
gutter.
      1.   The dimensions of curb and gutter on residential streets shall be a
roll type two and three-fourth inches (23/4") in height above the gutter line.
The width of the combined curb and gutter shall be eighteen inches (18"). The
width of curb from gutter line to back of curb shall be eight inches (8"). The
gutter shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") below the edge of the gutter flag.
The thickness of the gutter flag shall equal the thickness of the adjacent
street pavement.
      2.   The dimensions of curb and gutter on commercial or industrial
streets shall be in conformance with the following specifications of the state
standard design, combination concrete curb and gutter, type B-6.12: the curb
shall be a vertical face type six inches (6") in height above the gutter line.
The width of the combined curb and gutter shall be eighteen inches (18"). The
width of curb from gutter line to back of curb shall be six inches (6"). The
gutter shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") below the edge of the gutter flag.
The thickness of the gutter flag shall be equal to the thickness of the
adjacent street pavement. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-9: FRONTAGE ROADS AND PARKING AREAS:
   A.   The complete design for frontage roads, including specifications and
designation of trafficways, driving lanes, paving widths, thickness, materials,
etc., shall be submitted to the plan commission for review and approval prior
to the issuance of building permits or the sale or lease of buildings or land
in "planned developments" as defined in this title.
   B.   The minimum number of off street parking spaces shall be in accordance
with the requirements of the zoning ordinance of the village.
   C.   Frontage roads and parking areas shall be designed in accordance with
other provisions of this title, but in no case shall the minimum equivalent
thicknesses be less than six inches (6") for portland cement concrete or eight
inches (8") of gravel or crushed stone base course (aggregate base course, type
B) having a wearing surface of bituminous concrete binder and surface course,
class 1, having a minimum thickness of two and one-half inches (21/2"), and
also a minimum bituminous aggregate mixture six inches (6") compacted thickness
with a similar two and one-half inch (21/2") bituminous concrete binder and
surface course be permissible.
   D.   When a frontage road is to be dedicated to public use, the
specifications shall be in accordance with the owner or lessee are to use the
same private frontage road or parking lot, a trust indenture shall be recorded
before approval of the multi-family, commercial or industrial subdivision as
defined herein.
   E.   A minimum distance may be required by the plan commission where deemed
necessary between points of ingress and egress where all property to be
subdivided is under one ownership on the effective date of this title. Where
property has frontage on a state or federal highway, the spacing and design of
the points of ingress and egress to the major highway shall be subject to
approval of the Illinois division of highways. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-10: ALLEYS:
Alley pavement shall conform with specifications in subsection
12-6-8E of this chapter. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-11: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete to a
thickness of four inches (4"). Concrete for such pavement shall have a minimum
fourteen (14) day compressive strength of three thousand five hundred (3,500)
pounds per square inch, shall contain not less than five and one-half (51/2)
bags of cement per cubic yard of concrete and shall contain not less than three
percent (3%) nor more than six percent (6%) entrained air. Slump shall be not
less than two inches (2") nor more than four inches (4").
   B.   Sidewalks may be constructed within ninety (90) days of the date of the
occupancy permit for any lot in the subdivision. However, all sidewalks must be
constructed within eighteen (18) months of the date of approval of the final
plat. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-12: CROSS WALKWAYS:
Cross walkways shall be marked with thermoplastic pavement markings and shall
conform to the requirements set forth under part III, markings, of the manual
on uniform traffic control devices, 1988 edition, or the latest revision
thereof, and shall be placed in accordance with section T501 of the standard
specifications for traffic control items adopted April 1, 1989, or the latest
revision thereof. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-13: STREET LIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Scope: Street lighting improvements shall be installed to serve all
properties within the subdivision.
   B.   Type Of Lighting: Such improvements shall be of the individual service
or of the multiple circuit type and shall consist of standards, luminaries,
cable conduit under driveways and/or streets, controllers, handholes, and all
other miscellaneous work and equipment necessary for an integrated system of
street lights.
   C.   Location: There shall be at least one standard luminaire at each
intersection and interior of each cul-de-sac, and spacing of standards shall
not exceed three hundred feet (300') in residential areas. In commercial and/or
manufacturing areas, spacing and location of standards shall be as approved by
the village council.
   D.   Specifications:
      1.   Lighting standards shall be prestressed and centrifugally cast
concrete, complete with butt base, and shall have a water polish finish,
complete with bracket and handhole. Heights of standard and length of bracket
shall be as follows:
         a.   Residential Areas: Standard, twenty three feet (23'); bracket
arm, eight feet (8').
         b.   Commercial, Industrial And Manufacturing Areas: Standard, thirty
feet (30') with the length of the bracket arm as approved by the village
council.
      2.   Luminaries shall be of the mercury vapor type with constant wattage
type ballasts. Size and life shall be as follows:
         a.   Residential Area: One hundred seventy five (175) watt with
average life of three thousand (3,000) hours.
         b.   Commercial, Industrial And Manufacturing Areas: Two hundred fifty
(250) watt or four hundred (400) watt with average life of three thousand
(3,000) hours as approved by the village council.
      3.   Cable on multiple circuit systems shall be not less than no. 8 wire
and shall be buried at least thirty inches (30") below finished grade. Cable
shall be installed in a two inch (2"), schedule 40, PVC conduit with two inch
(2") fiber bushings where such cable crosses beneath existing or proposed
pavements, driveways or sidewalks. No underground cable splices will be
permitted. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-6-14: FILING ENGINEERING PLANS AND REVIEW FEE:
   A.   Engineering Plans: Four (4) complete sets of engineering plans and
specifications of required land improvements as regulated by subsection
12-3-4A2 of this title, together with an estimate of the cost of improvements,
said plans and specifications to bear the seal of an Illinois registered
professional engineer along with this signed statement that such plans and
specifications have been prepared in compliance with this title and with good
engineering practice, shall be submitted. Said plans shall be drawn to a
minimum horizontal scale of fifty feet (50') to the inch (1" = 50'). Plan shall
show profiles of all utility and street improvements, with elevations referred
to U.S. geological survey datum.
   B.   Plan Review Fee: The following plan review fee, based on the following
percentages of total land improvement costs, as estimated by the design
engineer and approved by the village engineer, shall be paid: (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-
1992; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   A fee of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) will be assessed when
the construction cost of the improvements is seventy five thousand dollars
($75,000.00) or less.
      2.   One percent (1%) of the construction cost of the improvements when
such cost is over seventy five thousand dollars ($75,000.00) but less than two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00).
      3.   Three-quarters of one percent (0.75%) of the construction cost of
the improvements when such cost is over two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00). (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-7-1: Building Permit
12-7-2: Occupancy Permit
12-7-3: Variances And Exceptions
12-7-4: Appeals
12-7-5: Record Of Plats; Fees
12-7-6: Penalties
12-7-1: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or any lot
within a "subdivision", as defined herein, which has been approved for platting
or replatting, until all requirements of this title have been complied with.
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-7-2: OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the use of
any structure within a subdivision approved for platting or replatting until
required utility facilities have been installed and made ready to service the
property, and until roadways and sidewalks providing access to the subject lots
have been constructed or upon satisfactory assurance that they shall be
completed in not less than ninety (90) days from the date of the occupancy
permit. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-7-3: VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Authority: Where the plan commission finds that extraordinary hardships
or particular difficulties may result from the strict compliance with this
title, the plan commission may recommend and the village council may grant
variations or exceptions to the regulations, subject to specified conditions,
so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured;
provided, that such variations or exceptions shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Standards For Variances Or Exceptions: The plan commission shall not
recommend variations or exceptions to the regulations of this title unless it
shall make findings based on the evidence presented in each specific case,
that:
      1.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship
to the owner would result as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations was carried out.
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property, and have not been created by any
person having an interest in the property.
      3.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money out of the property.
      4.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare, or injurious to other property or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the property is located. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-7-4: APPEALS:
Any person or corporation may appeal within sixty (60) days to the village
council any final action taken by the plan commission. The village council
shall act as a board of appeals and shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any final order, requirement, decision or determination made by the plan
commission under this title. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the
village council shall be necessary to reverse any final order of the plan
commission under this title. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-7-5: RECORD OF PLATS; FEES:
   A.   Plat Approval Required Prior To Recordation: No plat of any subdivision
shall be entitled to be recorded in the county recorder's office or have any
validity until it shall have been approved in the manner prescribed herein.
   B.   Recording Plats: All plats of subdivisions, after the same have been
submitted and approved, as provided in this title, shall be copied in a book of
plats of the village and shall be filed and kept by the village, and shall be
filed of record by the owner with LaSalle County.
   C.   Fees: Upon approval of the final plat by the village council, the
subdivider shall present the plat to the recorder of deeds for recording and
shall pay all fees as are necessary. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-7-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation who constructs any public improvement
or portion thereof in violation of the provisions of this title shall be, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for lease, while
this title is in effect, any lot or block within the incorporated limits of the
village, or any resubdivision of any lot or block therein, or within contiguous
unincorporated territory located in LaSalle County, lying outside of the
corporate limits and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate
limits of the village, as indicated on the official map, or latest revision
thereof, before a final plat of subdivision has been approved by the plan
commission and the village council as required by this title, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each lot or part thereof so disposed of, offered for
sale or leased. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
EXHIBITS
SECTION:
12-8-1: Typical Detail - Cul-De-Sac With Curb And Gutter
12-8-2: Typical Street Details
12-8-3: Curb And Gutter Detail
12-8-4: Lot Terms
12-8-5: Maps
(See following pages for exhibits.)
12-8-1: TYPICAL DETAIL - CUL-DE-SAC WITH CURB AND GUTTER:
   TYPICAL DETAIL
   CUL-DE-SAC WITH CURB AND GUTTER
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1165.gif]
 
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-8-2: TYPICAL STREET DETAILS:
   TYPICAL STREET DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1167.gif]
 
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-8-3: CURB AND GUTTER DETAIL:
   CURB AND GUTTER DETAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1169.gif]
 
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-8-4: LOT TERMS:
   LOT TERMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5c6e82ffaa276acb364536331191c6de324d5c01/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1171.gif]
 
(Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992)
12-8-5: MAPS:
The current land use map, the future land use map, the infrastructure map and
the zoning map of the village are on file in the office of the village clerk at
the village hall for public use and inspection. (Ord. 8-92, 4-14-1992; amd.
2003 Code)
