LIVINGSTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord.2025-1, passed 1-23-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Code alteration
   
10.05   Jurisdiction
   
10.06   Catchlines
Saving Clause
   
10.20   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.21   Public utility ordinances
   
10.22   Court proceedings
   
10.23   Severability of provisions
Definitions
   
10.35   Construction of words
   
10.36   Definitions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the Village Board of Trustees, this village code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official “Revised Code
of Ordinances of the Village of Livingston.” The revised code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the “village code,” and it is hereby published by
authority of the Village Board and shall be kept up-to-date as provided in §
10.03 under the direction of the Village Attorney acting for said Village
Board. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and subchapter heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto as
well as to the section itself when reference is made to this village code by
title in any legal document.
(65 ILCS 5/1 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.20.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-6) (Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending this village code shall set forth the subchapter,
chapter, and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this
shall constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this
village code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be forwarded
to a codifier and the ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in its
proper place in each copy of this village code. Each such replacement page
shall he properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the village code on an annual basis.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-3) (Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall he deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace,
or deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his or her custody an official copy of this code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. He or she shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or her or made available to him or her
through the office of the Village Clerk. Said code books, while in actual
possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the
property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the Clerk upon
termination of office or separation of duties.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 JURISDICTION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed within
the corporate limits of the village. Provisions of this code also apply to acts
performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law
where the law confers power on the village to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 10.06 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-17)
SAVING CLAUSE
§ 10.20 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this
code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are, by necessary implication, herein reserved from repeal, subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following sections, from which are
excluded the following ordinances, which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the village; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-8)
§ 10.21 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways or relating to the conduct, duties, service, or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by
virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this code shall be considered as
amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-9)
§ 10.22 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any claim
arising under the former ordinance or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying, or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-10)
§ 10.23 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
severable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-11)
DEFINITIONS
§ 10.35 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons,
any single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   (B)   When any subject matter, party, or person is referred to in this code
by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties, or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains any express
provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content
may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-15)
§ 10.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD. Unless otherwise indicated shall mean the Village Board of Trustees
of Livingston, Illinois.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The “Revised Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Livingston.”
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Village President (Mayor) and the Village Board
of Trustees.
   COUNTY. The County of Madison, Illinois.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
village.”
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the village for carrying on of a
business, profession, or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 of each
year and end on April 30 of the following year.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or mission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the village, and, when appropriate, any and all rules
and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the Village
Board in the employee agreement.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   MAY. The word MAY is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Village President or President of the Village Board of Trustees.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT, AND NEGLIGENTLY. Import a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the village” and shall be taken to mean the officer or
employee of the village having the title mentioned or performing the duties
indicated. No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the Village Board to impose such a fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of village business, except during applicable Daylight Saving Time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the village shall be set and run at
the official time prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land shall include any part-owner, joint-
owner, tenant-in-common, joint-tenant, or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation in his, hers, or its own capacity as administrator, conservator,
executor, trustee, receiver, or other representative appointed by the court.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code prescribing a
penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or any such word as applied to
corporations, it shall include the officers, agents, or employees thereof who
are responsible for any violation of said section.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right, or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
   RETAILER. As used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things
in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary.
   STATE or THIS STATE. Unless otherwise indicated shall mean the State of
Illinois.
   STREET. Alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public places,
and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALER DEALER. As used in this code unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles, or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN AND IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, by his or her proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-16) (Ord. 62-7, passed 7-23-1962)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for any one offense.
      (2)   Any minor or person designated a juvenile by the state convicted of
a violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750 for any one offense, but may not be confined except by
provisions of the Juvenile Court Act of the state, being 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et
seq.
      (3)   Whoever commits an offense against the village or aids, abets,
counsels, commands, induces, or procures its commission is punishable as a
principal.
      (4)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him or her or another would be an offense against the village, is
punishable as a principal.
      (5)   A penalty imposed for the violation of any section of this code may
include, or consist of, a requirement that the defendant perform some
reasonable public service work such as but not limited to the picking up of
litter in public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public
facilities.
   (B)   Service by certified mail. In all actions for violation of any
municipal ordinance where the fine would not be in excess of $750 and no jail
term could be imposed, service of summons may be made by the Village Clerk by
certified mail, return receipt requested, whether service is to be within or
without the state.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1)
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this village code, the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this village code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where
any act which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this village code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code, and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this code shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
   (D)   Liability of officers. The failure of any officer or employee to
perform any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject such officer
or employee to the penalty imposed for violation of this code, unless a penalty
is specifically provided for.
   (E)   License. When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of
this code, any license previously issued to him or her by the village may be
revoked by the court or by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2013-9, passed 11-18-2013)
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate seal
   
11.02   Official records
§ 11.01 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the village shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the village. It shall be circular in form with the words,
“Village of Livingston, Madison Co., ILL” in the exterior circle, and the words
“Incorporated, Nov. 15, 1905” and the figure of the “Scales of Justice” in the
inner circle.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the village and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
The seal shall be and remain with the Village Clerk who shall be the legal
custodian. (See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90.)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-18)
Editor’s note:
   The Secretary of State issued the village’s “Certificate of Incorporation”
on February 7, 1906.
§ 11.02 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the corporate seal, shall be kept in the
Village Hall.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-33)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES; MAYOR
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS; EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCES
      
34.   TAXATION
      
35.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
37.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES; MAYOR
Section
Village Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Composition, general powers
   
30.02   Regular meetings
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Vacancy
   
30.05   Committees; special committees
   
30.06   Quorum
Rules of the Village Board
   
30.20   Rules of the Board
   
30.21   Agenda
   
30.22   Procedures for public input at meetings
Ordinances
   
30.35   Ordinances
   
30.36   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
30.37   No vote to be reconsidered at special meeting
Mayor
   
30.50   Election
   
30.51   Temporary Mayor
   
30.52   Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.53   Vacancy
   
30.54   Chief Executive Officer
   
30.55   Mayor’s signature
   
30.56   Appointment of officers
   
30.57   Supervise conduct of officers; removal of officers
   
30.58   Designation of officer’s duties
   
30.59   Formal occasions
   
30.60   General duties
   
30.61   Commissioner roles; business; liquor; health
   
30.62   Deciding vote
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION, GENERAL POWERS.
   The Village Board shall consist of six Trustees elected in conformity with
this code and state laws governing elections in villages, and shall have such
powers as are granted by 65 ILCS, as amended. The term of office shall be for
four years or until their successors are elected and have qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1) (Ord. 7, passed 8-24-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5 and 5/3.1-10-50
§ 30.02 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the Village Board shall be held in the
Village Hall building on the second Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. When the
meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held on the
following day at the same hour and place, unless otherwise designated.
Adjourned and reconvened meetings may be held at such times as may be
determined by the Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2) (Ord. 76-4, passed 8-16-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25 and 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Village Board may be called by the Mayor or any
three Trustees by giving at least 24 hours’ notice thereof by delivering to
them personally written or printed notices of the time of such meeting at the
residences of the Trustees. Such notices shall be served by mail by the Clerk
or Chief of Police or his or her designated representative. Said notices shall
specify the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken up at
that time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the Village Hall and shall
be provided to any local newspaper of general circulation or any local radio or
television station that has filed an annual request for such notice. Said
notice shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as said notice
is given to the Mayor and members of the Village Board, provided such news
media has given the village an address within the village at which such notice
may be given.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25 and 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03) (Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 30.04 VACANCY.
   When a vacancy occurs, if more than 28 months remain in the term and the
vacancy occurs not less than 130 days before the next consolidated election,
the office shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by special
election at that consolidated election. During the period from the time that
the vacancy occurs until the next election of Trustees, the vacancy may be
filled by the appointment of a Trustee by the Mayor, and the remaining Trustees
voting jointly.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)) (Prior Code, § 1-2-4)
§ 30.05 COMMITTEES; SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees.
      (1)   The following standing committees of the Village Board are hereby
established, to-wit:
         (a)   Finance;
         (b)   Ordinance;
         (c)   Streets/Buildings;
         (d)   Human Resources;
         (e)   Health and Public Safety; and
         (f)   Park.
      (2)   The committees shall be appointed bi-annually by the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor shall be ex-officio Chairperson of each and every
standing committee.
      (4)   So far as is practicable, reports of committees shall be in writing
to the Board.
      (5)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Board shall be
deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the same after
the report is made, upon the request of any two Trustees present.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35)
      (6)   All committee meetings are subject to the Open Meeting Act
requirements, and minutes shall be taken.
(5 ILCS 120/1 and 120/2.06)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-5)
   (B)   Special committees. Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, as may be needed
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-6)
§ 30.06 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the Village Board, a majority of the corporate
authorities shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if
no such quorum attends such meeting of the Board, the Trustees may adjourn from
day to day until a quorum is present, and shall have power to compel the
attendance of absent members, except when such members are physically unable to
attend such meetings.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20) (Prior Code, § 1-2-7)
Editor’s note:
   When the Board has a Mayor and six Trustees, a quorum is four, which may
consist of the Mayor and three Trustees, or four Trustees.
RULES OF THE VILLAGE BOARD
§ 30.20 RULES OF THE BOARD.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the Village Board.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   The reading of the minutes of the proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings, and correction and approval of the same, unless
dispensed with by the Board of Trustees and correction of the minutes of the
proceedings of previous meetings;
         (d)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other village
officers;
         (e)   Visitors;
         (f)   Reports of standing committees;
         (g)   Reports of special committees;
         (h)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders,
and ordinances by the Board of Trustees;
         (i)   Unfinished business; and
         (j)   Miscellaneous business.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chairperson without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
Trustees, and shall decide all question of order, subject to appeal.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting the
question, no member shall walk across or out of the Board chamber. Every
member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or seconding the same
shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the
Chairperson. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the question under
debate, avoiding personalities and refraining from impugning the motives of any
other Trustee’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Board of Trustees shall
address that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized
by the presiding officer.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a Trustee wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance, or other original
matter, the member shall read such matter when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No Trustee shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the presiding officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one’s right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Trustee desiring to speak shall have had an
opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the proponent of the matter under
consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   The Village Board, by motion, may limit debate. The presiding
officer shall have the right to participate in debate. While a member is
speaking, no Trustee shall hold any private discussion, nor pass between the
speaker and the Chairperson.
   (G)   Call of Trustees to order. A Trustee, when called to order by the
Chairperson, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and
the order or ruling of the Chairperson shall be binding and conclusive, subject
only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the Chairperson. Any Trustee may appeal to
the Board from a ruling of the Chairperson, and if the appeal is seconded, the
Trustee making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same, and
the Chairperson may briefly explain his or her ruling; but there shall be no
debate on the appeal and no other person shall participate in the discussion.
The presiding officer shall have the right to participate in debate. The
Chairperson shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the Chairperson
be sustained?” If a majority of the Trustees present vote “No,” the decision of
the Chairperson shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Board on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character, or motives are assailed, questioned, or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every other member who shall be present when a question is
stated from the Chairperson shall vote thereon, unless he or she is personally
interested in the question, in which case, he or she shall take whatever steps
are necessary to ensure that his or her vote is not taken.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the Village Board may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain if two-thirds of the
Trustees present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting or in committee unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Board, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Trustees, by the chairperson or by a
majority vote of the Trustees present, may divide such question.
   (N)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Trustee moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (O)   Announcement and change of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (P)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and/or
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (P)(1)(b), (P)(1)(d), and (P)(1)(e) above to be decided
without debate.
   (Q)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the Village Board shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When a Trustee is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (e)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
         (f)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The Village Board may, at any time, adjourn over one or more
regular meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Trustees authorized by law
to be elected.
   (R)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put on this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?” If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (S)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion simply to lay the question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Trustees vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (T)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time. When consideration of a motion or other proposition is
postponed indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (1)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (2)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (U)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (V)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “Strike Out and Insert,” the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (W)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (X)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Trustees by a vote shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (Y)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration having been once made and decided in the negative shall not be
renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Trustees who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (Z)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order Revised shall govern the Board in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Board.
   (AA)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled by law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered, or amended,
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   (BB)   Censure of Trustees; expulsion of Trustees. Any Trustee acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene,
and insulting language to or about any member of the Board, or who does not
obey the order of the Chairperson, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority
vote of the members present, or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Trustees
elected.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15) (Prior Code, § 1-2-11)
§ 30.21 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation, shall
be furnished to each member of the Village Board no later than the close of
business on the day preceding the regular Village Board meeting. In the case of
matters of emergency which could not have been reasonably foreseen in
sufficient time to comply with this section, a revised agenda shall be
furnished to each member of the Village Board prior to the opening of the Board
meeting.
(5 ILCS 120/2.02) (Prior Code, § 1-2-12)
§ 30.22 PROCEDURES FOR PUBLIC INPUT AT MEETINGS.
   The procedures for public input from visitors at Village Board meetings for
the village shall be as follows.
   (A)   Visitors may make comments and ask questions of the Village Board
during the regular Board meetings during the “Order of Business” set aside for
visitors at the beginning of each meeting as indicated on the agenda or as
otherwise indicated on the agenda and at the beginning of any other open
meeting, including a committee meeting.
   (B)   Each speaker shall be allowed three minutes to address the Village
Board in order to encourage all visitors to speak and to give each visitor
ample opportunity to speak while still preserving the efficiency of each
meeting. If each public comment cannot be provided in the prescribed time
limit, then the visitor may submit a written request for additional time to the
Board to be addressed at the next regularly scheduled Board meeting. No visitor
may add or delete any items from the posted agenda.
   (C)   The Village Board President shall have the prerogative to determine
the order of the speakers and any additional procedures to be followed in
making the presentations so long as the additional procedures promote a
significant governmental interest, including maintaining appropriate decorum
and order.
   (D)   There will be no independent audio\visual aid allowed during the
visitor’s questions or comments. The Village Board President shall determine
the procedures to be followed should any person wish to videotape or otherwise
record the Village Board.
   (E)   All speakers will be required to address the Village Board from the
visitors seating section. All comments will be noted and made part of the
official record of the meeting.
   (F)   The Village Board President may refer all questions to the appropriate
Board committee, elected official, or department head for response at a later
date except as stated below. The Board will not immediately respond to public
comments so as to afford the Board adequate time to compile necessary
information to make an informed response. At times, some questions may be
addressed immediately by the Board; however, that would be the exception and
not the rule.
   (G)   No dialogue between the speakers and the Board members will be allowed
unless necessary for clarification.
   (H)   (1)   Each visitor shall act with good taste and decorum befitting the
occasion and the dignity of the meeting. Shouting, loud statements, threats,
name calling, offensive personal references, inappropriate language, and other
improper conduct are strictly forbidden.
      (2)   If the speaker becomes disruptive, hostile, or argumentative, fails
to exercise good taste or decorum, shouts, threatens, engages in name calling,
uses offensive personal references, uses foul language or is otherwise
disruptive, the Board reserves the right to remove any visitor engaging in such
behavior or threatening public safety. This includes requesting the disruptive
visitor to voluntarily vacate the meeting. However, the Board may, in its
discretion, involve law enforcement to escort the disruptive visitor from the
premises.
   (I)   (1)   Each visitor intending to address the Village Board shall be
required to register at the time of the meeting of the Board to determine the
appropriate order of visitors addressing the Board.
      (2)   Any visitor failing to register at the time of the meeting shall
not be permitted to speak at that meeting unless the Village Board President,
in his or her discretion, determines that exigent circumstances exist or that
the intended topic to be addressed from the visitor is extremely timely and
cannot wait until the next monthly meeting.
(Ord. 2018-2, passed 2-12-2018)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.35 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prepare such
ordinances as may be required by the Village Board.
   (B)   Vote required; yeas and nays record.
      (1)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion shall require the concurrence of a majority of all members
then holding office on the Village Board including the Mayor, unless otherwise
expressly provided by the Code or any other act governing the passage of any
ordinance, resolution, or motion; provided that, where the Board consists of an
odd number of Trustees, the vote of the majority of the Trustees shall be
sufficient to pass an ordinance:
         (a)   To create any liability against a village; or
         (b)   For the expenditure or appropriation of its money.
      (2)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage
of the designated ordinances, resolutions, or motions and recorded in the
journal of the Village Board. In addition, the corporate authorities at any
meeting may by unanimous consent to take. a single vote by yeas or nays on the
several questions of the passage on any two or more of the designated
ordinances, orders, resolutions, or motions placed together for voting purposes
in a single group. The single vote shall be entered separately in the journal
under the designation “omnibus vote,” and in such event the Clerk may enter the
words “omnibus vote” or “consent agenda” in the journal in each case in lieu of
entering names of the members of Village Board voting “yea” and of those voting
“nay” on the passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions,
and motions included in such omnibus group or consent agenda. The taking of
such single or omnibus vote and such entries of the words “omnibus vote” or
“consent agenda” in the journal shall be a sufficient compliance with the
requirements of this section to all intents and purposes and with like effect
as if the vote in each case had been separately by yeas and nays on the
question of the passage of each ordinance, order, resolution, and motion
included in such omnibus group, and separately recorded in the journal.
Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
any other resolution or motion at the request of any Trustee and shall be
recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40)
   (C)   Ordinances; approval veto.
      (1)   All resolutions and motions shall be deposited with the Village
Clerk:
         (a)   Which create any liability against the village;
         (b)   That provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money;
or
         (c)   To sell any village property, and all ordinances, passed by the
Village Board.
      (2)   If the Mayor approves such resolution or motion, the Mayor shall
sign them. Those ordinances, resolutions, and motions which the Mayor
disapproves shall be returned to the Village Board, with his or her written
objections, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less
than five days after their passage. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more
sums appropriated in any ordinance, resolution, or motion making an
appropriation, and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor
may disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution, or motion making an
appropriation. If the Mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified
resolution or motion with his or her written objections, within the designated
time, it shall become effective despite the absence of the Mayor’s signature.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1 through 40-45)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-14)
§ 30.36 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   (A)   Every resolution and motion, specified in division (B) below, and
every ordinance that is returned to the Village Board by the Mayor shall be
reconsidered by the Village Board at the next regular meeting.
   (B)   If, after reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees then holding
office on the Village Board shall agree at that regular meeting to pass an
ordinance, resolution, or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor’s refusal to
approve it, then it shall be effective.
   (C)   The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be by
yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50) (Prior Code, § 1-2-15)
§ 30.37 NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETING.
   No vote of the Village Board shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting at least as many
Village Trustees as were present when the vote was taken. (65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-16)
MAYOR
§ 30.50 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until a
successor is elected and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5 and 5/3.1-25-15) (Prior Code, § 1-2-40)
§ 30.51 TEMPORARY MAYOR.
   (A)   If the Mayor or President is temporarily absent because of an
incapacity to perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a
vacancy in the office, the corporate authorities shall elect one of their
members to act as Mayor or President Pro Tem. The Mayor or President Pro Tem,
during this absence or disability, shall perform the duties and possess all the
rights and powers of the Mayor or President but shall not be entitled to vote
both as Mayor or President Pro Tem and as trustee.
   (B)   In the absence of the Mayor, President, Acting Mayor, or President, or
Mayor or President Pro Tem, the corporate authorities may elect one of their
members to act as a temporary chairperson. The temporary chairperson shall have
only the powers of a presiding officer and a right to vote only in the capacity
as trustee on any ordinance, resolution, or motion.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35)
§ 30.52 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor which incapacitates
him or her from the performance of his or her duties, but does not create a
vacancy in the office, the Board of Trustees shall appoint one of its members
to act as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem, during this absence or disability,
shall perform his or her duties and possess all the rights and powers of the
Mayor. The Mayor may appoint an officer to administer the affairs of the
village with the advice and consent of the Village Board whenever the Village
Board considers it necessary and expedient.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35) (Prior Code, § 1-2-42)
§ 30.53 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election. The Village Board shall elect one of its members as “Acting Mayor”
who shall perform the duties and shall possess all the rights and powers of the
Mayor until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50) (Prior Code, § 1-2-43)
§ 30.54 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the village and shall see
to the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. He or she shall preside over the
meetings of the Board of Trustees and perform such duties as may be required of
him or her by statute or law. He or she shall have supervision over all of the
executive officers and village employees; provided, however, his or her control
is subject to the power of the Village Board to prescribe the duties of various
officers and employees. He or she shall have the power and authority at any
reasonable time to inspect all books, papers, and records pertaining to village
affairs and kept by any officer of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10 and 3.1-35-20) (Prior Code, § 1-2-44)
§ 30.55 MAYOR’S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all village warrants, commissions, permits, and
licenses granted by authority of the Village Board, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his or
her official signature.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his or her signature to any
written instrument that requires the Mayor’s signature. The Mayor must send
written notice of this designation to the Village Board stating:
      (1)   The name of the person whom he has selected; and
      (2)   What instrument the person will have authority to sign.
   (C)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath the signature of the person so designated shall
be attached to the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be
recorded in the journal of the Village Board and then filed with the Village
Clerk. When the signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the
direction of the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all
respects, shall be as binding on the village as if signed by the Mayor in
person.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30) (Prior Code, § 1-2-45)
§ 30.56 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board, all officers
of the village whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year, and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified whichever shall last
occur. Any vacancy occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the
same manner. The Mayor shall issue a commission or certificate of appointment
to all persons appointed to office in the municipality.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5)
   (B)   Filing vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, all officers of the village whose appointment
will not otherwise be provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur
in any office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to
fill, the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the Village Board,
communicate to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the
concurrence of the Village Board in such appointment, the Mayor may designate
some suitable person to discharge the functions of such office.
(50 ILCS 105/2) (Prior Code, § 1-2-46)
§ 30.57 SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS; REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the village
and see that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their
respective offices.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him
or her on any formal charge whenever the Mayor shall be of the opinion that the
interests of the village demand such removal, but the Mayor shall report the
reasons for the removal to the Village Board to be heard not less than five
days nor more than ten days after such removal.
   (C)   If the Mayor shall fail or refuse to file with the Village Clerk a
statement of the reasons for such removal, or if the Village Board, by a two-
thirds vote by yeas and nays of all its members authorized by law to be
elected, to be entered upon its record, disapprove of such removal, then such
officer shall thereupon become restored to the office from which the person was
so removed, but the person shall give a new bond and take a new oath of office.
   (D)   No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-47)
§ 30.58 DESIGNATION OF OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the Village Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the
power to delegate to any appointive officer any duty which is to be performed
when no specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 30.59 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal occasions and
receptions, but in his or her absence or inability to attend any such function,
the Mayor may select any other village officer to so act.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-49)
§ 30.60 GENERAL DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The Mayor from time to time may and, annually shall, give the Village
Board information relative to the affairs of the village, and may recommend for
their consideration such measures as he or she believes expedient.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5) (Prior Code, § 1-2-50)
§ 30.61 COMMISSIONER ROLES; BUSINESS; LIQUOR; HEALTH.
   (A)   Business License Commissioner. The Mayor is hereby designated as
License Commissioner to issue and revoke any and all business licenses as
prescribed by law, with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-51)
   (B)   Local Liquor Commissioner. The Mayor is hereby designated as Local
Liquor Commissioner with all the powers to license and/or revoke any village
liquor license according to state and village laws.
(235 ILCS 5/4-2) (Prior Code, § 1-2-52)
   (C)   Health Commissioner. The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health
Commissioner with all powers to abate and remove all nuisances or health
hazards within the jurisdictional boundaries of the village authority as
prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-53)
§ 30.62 DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. He or
she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion, except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Trustees elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion, even though there is no tie; or
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes to adopt an ordinance,
resolution, or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified, the Mayor shall vote. Nothing in this
section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem from voting in his or
her capacity as Trustee, but he or she shall not be entitled to another vote in
his or her capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5) (Prior Code, § 1-2-54)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS; EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Municipal officers; regulations
   
31.002   Resignation of appointed officials
   
31.003   Qualifications of officials; defaulter
   
31.004   Bonds of village officers
   
31.005   Village offices consolidated
   
31.006   Indemnification of employees
   
31.007   Gift ban
   
31.008   Personnel Policy adopted
   
31.009   Reimbursement of travel, meal, lodging expenses
Elections
   
31.020   Elections
   
31.021   Appointment of elected officials
Village Clerk
   
31.035   Appointment
   
31.036   Vacancy
   
31.037   Publication of ordinances; Board minutes; records
   
31.038   Delivery of papers to officers
   
31.039   Preparation of documents, commissions, licenses
   
31.040   Report; delivery of licenses
   
31.041   Administration of oaths
   
31.042   Outstanding bonds
   
31.043   Reports
   
31.044   Successor
   
31.045   Payments
   
31.046   Submit appropriation to Village Board
   
31.047   Notification to persons appointed to office
   
31.048   Other duties
   
31.049   Deputy Clerk
Village Treasurer
   
31.060   Department established
   
31.061   Finance committee
   
31.062   Treasurer appointed; vacancy
   
31.063   Money; warrants; accounts; payments
   
31.064   Warrant register
   
31.065   Separation of funds
   
31.066   Bond
   
31.067   Special assessments
   
31.068   Bookkeeping
   
31.069   Statements
   
31.070   Report delinquent officers
   
31.071   Year-end report
   
31.072   Deposit of funds
Village Attorney
   
31.085   Appointment
   
31.086   Duties
Superintendent of Public Works
   
31.100   Office created
   
31.101   Streets
   
31.102   Lighting
   
31.103   Department employees
   
31.104   Property custodian
Cross-reference:
   Employee discipline policy, see §§
37.35 through
37.44
   Sexual harassment policy, see §§
37.20 through
37.24
   Workplace violence prevention policy, see §§
37.55 through
37.59
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the village regardless of the time of creation of the
office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
   (B)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the Village
Board upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be determined by the Board, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or position.
   (C)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, papers, furniture, and
other things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the
village. Within five days after notification and request, any person who has
been an officer of a municipality is required to deliver to his or her
successor in office all property, books, and effects in his or her possession
belonging to the municipality, or pertaining to the office he or she has held.
Upon his or her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for all damages
caused thereby, and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according to the
provisions of §
31.021. He or she shall not receive his or her final check until his or her
Village Code Book and keys are turned over to the Village Clerk.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35)
   (D)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Fees; report of fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled
to charge or receive any fees as against the village. All officers of the
village entitled to receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make
a report thereof under oath to the Village Board prior to the regular meeting
of each month. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service, and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the Village Treasury.
   (F)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the village shall
perform such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as
the Village Board may provide by law.
   (G)   Oath.
      (1)   Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
         “I, ______________ , do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
________________________ , according to the best of my ability.”
      (2)   The Mayor and the Clerk shall have the power to administer this
oath or affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20)
(Prior Code, § 1-2-21)
Cross-reference:
   Administration of oaths, see §
31.041
§ 31.002 RESIGNATION OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS.
   Any officer of the village may resign from office. If such officer resigns
he or she shall continue in office until his or her successor has been chosen
and has qualified. If there is a failure to appoint a village officer, or the
person appointed fails to qualify, the person filling the office shall continue
in office until his or her successor has been chosen and has qualified.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50) (Prior Code, § 1-2-22)
§ 31.003 QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICIALS; DEFAULTER.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible to any municipal office unless he or she
is a qualified elector of the municipality and has resided therein at least one
year next preceding his or her election or appointment. However, these
requirements shall not apply to the Village Engineer, Village Attorney, or
other officers who require technical training or knowledge.
   (B)   However, no person shall be eligible to any municipal office who is a
defaulter to the municipality.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5) (Prior Code, § 1-2-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.004 BONDS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of village officers required under 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30
shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $8,000;
      (2)   Village Treasurer: $8,000; and
      (3)   Village Clerk (collector): $8,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by village. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the village.
(5 ILCS 270/1)
   (C)   Surety. The Village Board shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon, the name of the Village Board, any one of the Board of
Trustees or any elected or appointed officer of the village appear as bondsman
or security. If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is
approved by the Village Board or if any bondsman, after becoming such is
elected or appointed to any village office, this section shall not act as a
release of any such obligation incurred.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-24)
§ 31.005 VILLAGE OFFICES CONSOLIDATED.
   (A)   The Village Board may, from time to time by law, impose upon any
officer filling any office created by the ordinances of the village, any such
other or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of the state, and
may consolidate any two or more of the offices and impose the duties thereof
upon any other officer and may make any such regulations respecting such
offices as shall be consistent with the laws of the state.
   (B)   In case the Village Board consolidates any offices created by it, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he or
she would not have been entitled to receive if such compensation had not taken
place.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-25)
§ 31.006 INDEMNIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   If any claim or action is brought or instituted against an official or
employee, where such claim or action arises out of an act or omission of the
official or employee performed or made in good faith in the discharge of his or
her official duties or in the course of his or her employment, the village
shall indemnify such official or employee for any reasonable cost incurred by
such official or employee in the defense of such claim or action, including
reasonable attorneys fees, and shall pay any judgment or settlement arising out
of such claim or action, subject to the following limitations and exceptions:
   (A)   Any such amounts paid, reimbursed, or indemnified shall be limited to
such amounts for such items as are not paid or reimbursed or indemnified from
insurance or any other collateral source;
   (B)   The official or employee shall notify the village in writing within
ten days of notice of any such claim or action;
   (C)   The village shall have the right to provide such indemnification by
providing the defense for such official or employee at the sole expense of the
village;
   (D)   For the purposes of indemnification, the village shall be the sole
determiner of whether or not the act or omission was in good faith in the
discharge of official duties in the course of employment; and
   (E)   Any settlement to be indemnified by the village shall have been made
upon the written opinion of legal counsel selected by the village and the
concurrence of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-26) (Ord. 86-4, passed 1-12-1987)
§ 31.007 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Adoption of act.
      (1)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425 et seq.) is hereby adopted as
required by § 83 of the Act.
(5 ILCS 425/83)
      (2) The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be
solicited or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed
official or any employee of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
   (B)   Ethics officer. The Ethics Officer shall serve no more than two
consecutive terms or any part thereof. The Ethics Officer’s duties shall be as
provided in § 35 of the Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
   (C)   Local Ethics Commission. To the extent authorized by law and to the
extent required by the Act, the President shall appoint three persons to a
Local Ethics Commission with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
The Local Ethics Commission shall have the power and duties set forth in § 55
of the Act. To the extent that any of its provisions may be applicable, § 45 of
the Act shall be applicable to the Local Ethics Commission. The complaint
procedure and the enforcement and penalty provisions of the Act and this
section shall be as are provided in §§ 60, 65, and 70 of the Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
   (D)   Future amendments.
      (1)   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) that
becomes effective after the passage of this section shall be incorporated into
this section by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and
acceptance of gifts.
      (2)   However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for
adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
   (E)   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of the State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   If the State Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS
425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional in its entirely, then this section shall be
repealed as of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not
subject to any further appeals or rehearings. The section shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village if
the Act is found unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court.
      (2)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the State Gift Ban Act
(5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of
the remainder of the Act or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the
remainder of the Act as adopted by this section shall remain in full force and
effect; however, that part of this section relating to the part of the Act
found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
(Ord. 99-7, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 2001-6, passed 10-8-2001)
§ 31.008 PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED.
   The Personnel Policy of the city is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in full herein.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-9-2024)
§ 31.009 REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEAL, LODGING EXPENSES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or charges of the village involving reimbursement
to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing transportation or
related services.
   (B)   Official business for which expenses may be reimbursed.
      (1)   An official of the village shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel, including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business: Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of the
village.
      (2)   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel,
including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business: Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of the
village.
   (C)   Maximum allowable reimbursement for expenses. Unless otherwise
excepted herein, the maximum allowable reimbursement for an employee or officer
of the village shall be those rates set by the reimbursement schedule of the
Governor’s Travel Control Board in effect at the time the expense was incurred
unless in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances.
   (D)   Approval of expenses. The Board of Trustees must approve the following
reimbursements for travel, including meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at
an open meeting of the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in division (C) above; or
      (2)   Any expense of any member of the Board of Trustees of the village.
   (E)   Documentation of expenses.
      (1)   Before any reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging,
may be approved pursuant to division (D) above, a standardized form for
submission of travel, meal, and lodging expenses supported by the following
minimum documentation shall first be submitted to the Board of Trustees:
         (a)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred, or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
         (b)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal, or lodging expense;
         (c)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
         (d)   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which
the travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
      (2)   All documents and information submitted under this division (E) are
public records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5
ILCS 140/1.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-7-2017)
ELECTIONS
§ 31.020 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of 10 ILCS concerning municipal
elections shall govern the conduct of the village elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The inauguration of newly elected village officials
shall occur at the first regular or special meeting of the Village Board in the
month of May following the general municipal election in April.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15) (Prior Code, § 1-2-19)
§ 31.021 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   No Trustee of the village, during the term of office for which he or
she is elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by
the Mayor except if such Trustee is granted a leave of absence from such
office. However, such Trustee may serve as a volunteer firefighter and receive
compensation for such service. Any appointment in violation of this section is
void.
   (B)   One member may serve on the Library Board.
(75 ILCS 5/4-1 and 50 ILCS 105/2) (Prior Code, § 1-2-20)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.035 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed for a one-year term by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees and shall serve until his or
her successor is appointed and has qualified. All vacancies shall be filled in
the manner a prescribed by 65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-56) (Ord. 2024-11, passed 9-12-2024)
§ 31.036 VACANCY.
   (A)   Whenever a vacancy in the office of Village Clerk elected under the
statutes occurs during the term, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder
of the term at the next general election as provided in §
30.04.
   (B)   During the period from the time that the vacancy occurs until a Clerk
is appointed and has qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the appointment of
an acting Clerk by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees voting jointly.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1 et seq. and 5/3.1-10-51) (Prior Code, § 1-2-57)
§ 31.037 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; BOARD MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   Ordinances. The Village Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed by the
Village Board and approved by the Mayor, imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or forfeiture, or making any appropriation to be published or
printed in book or pamphlet form published by authority of the corporate
authorities, or be published at least once within 30 days after passage, in one
or more newspapers published in the village.
   (B)   Minutes; records. The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
Village Board and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “The Journal of
the Village Board” a full and faithful record of its proceedings. The Village
Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for that purpose all
ordinances passed by the Village Board, and at the foot of the record of each
ordinance so recorded, the Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the
passage, when published, and a memorandum of the publication of such ordinance.
   (C)   Bonds. The Clerk shall also record in proper books for the purpose all
official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded when the same was entered of
record and the book and pages where recorded.
   (D)   Issue notices. The Clerk shall issue and cause to be served upon all
Trustees notices of all special meetings of the Village Board; also notices to
the members of the different committees of that body and all persons whose
attendance may be required before any such committee when so directed by the
Chairperson thereof.
(65 ILCS 5/1-2-4, 5/1-2-5, and 5/3.1-35-90) (Prior Code, § 1-2-58)
§ 31.038 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   The Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the Village Board and
to the officers of the village all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims, and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the Board on demand therefor. He or she shall also, without delay,
deliver to the Mayor all ordinances or resolutions, orders, and claims in his
or her charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the
Mayor.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90) (Prior Code, § 1-2-59)
§ 31.039 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS, COMMISSIONS, LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits, and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the
village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-60)
§ 31.040 REPORT; DELIVERY OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Report of licenses. The Clerk shall report to the Village Board at its
regular meeting each month, and more often if the Board so requires, the data
contained in his or her license register with respect to licenses issued during
the previous month.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-61)
   (B)   Delivery of licenses. In all cases where the village requires a
license to be obtained for the purpose of engaging in or carrying on any
business or occupation, and the licensee is required to obtain plates, tags, or
stickers from the Clerk, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such
plates, tags, or stickers to the person paying the license fee.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-62)
§ 31.041 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for all
lawful purposes.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20) (Prior Code, § 1-2-63)
§ 31.042 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   The Clerk shall keep in his or her office in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the village,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom the bonds are issued;
and when the village bonds are issued or purchased or paid, or cancelled, the
book or books shall show that fact, and in his or her annual report, the Clerk
shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the year and the terms of
sale with each and every item of expense thereof.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110) (Prior Code, § 1-2-64)
§ 31.043 REPORTS.
   The Treasurer shall, on or before the regular meeting in each month, make
out and submit to the Village Board a statement or report in writing of all the
monies received and warrants drawn by him or her during the preceding month,
showing therein from or what sources and on what account monies were received,
and for what purposes and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-65)
§ 31.044 SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office all books,
records, papers, maps, and effects of every detail and description belonging to
the village or pertaining to the office, and not in actual use and possession
of other village officers; and upon the expiration of his or her official term,
he or she shall deliver all such books, records, papers, and effects to the
successor in office.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-66)
§ 31.045 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare daily an itemized list of all monies received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the Village Treasurer and shall also pay
over to the Treasurer all monies received by him or her and take a receipt
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-67)
§ 31.046 SUBMIT APPROPRIATION TO VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk shall on or before May 15 in each year and before the
annual appropriations to be made by the Village Board, submit to the Village
Board a report of his or her estimates as nearly as may be of monies necessary
to defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal year.
      (2)   He or she shall, in said report, classify the different objects and
branches of expenditures, giving as nearly as may be the amount required for
each; and for the purpose of making such a report, he or she is hereby
authorized to require of all officers their statement of the condition and
expenses of their respective offices or departments with any proposed
improvements, and the probable expense thereof, all contracts made and
unfinished and the amount of any and all unexpended appropriations of the
preceding year.
   (B)   He or she shall, in such report, show the aggregate income of the
preceding fiscal year, from all sources, the amount of liabilities outstanding
upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable during the year,
when due and when payable; and in such report, he or she shall give such other
information to the Village Board as he or she may deem necessary to the end
that the Village Board may fully understand the money exigencies and demands
upon the corporation for the current year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-68)
§ 31.047 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   (A)   Within five days after an appointment is made, the Clerk shall notify
all persons appointed to office of their appointment.
   (B)   The office becomes vacant unless the person appointed qualifies within
ten days after such notice.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-69)
§ 31.048 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him or her
by law or resolution or ordinance of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-70)
§ 31.049 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk, when approved by the Village Board, may appoint the
Deputy Clerk who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the
village thereto whenever required. In signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk
shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed with the word, “By” and the
Deputy Clerk’s name and the words, “Deputy Clerk.”
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from the Village Clerk’s
office in the Village Hall, and only when either:
      (1)   Written direction has been given by the Village Clerk to such
Deputy Clerk to exercise such power; or
      (2)   The Village Board has determined by resolution that the Village
Clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such functions.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10, 5/3.1-10-45, and 5/3.1-35-95) (Prior Code, § 1-2-71)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.060 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the Finance Department. It shall embrace the
Village Board Committee on Finance and the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-73)
§ 31.061 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The standing Committee on Finance shall exercise a general supervision
over the affairs of the Finance Department.
   (B)   It shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof, shall, from time
to time, report the same to the Mayor and Village Board so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had and generally, and shall do all the acts
necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-74)
§ 31.062 TREASURER APPOINTED; VACANCY.
   The Treasurer shall be appointed for a one-year term by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, and he or she shall serve until his or
her successor is appointed and has qualified. All vacancies shall be filled in
the manner prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-75)
§ 31.063 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS; PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the
village and shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
Village Clerk and not otherwise; and shall keep a separate account of each fund
or appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (B)   He or she shall give to every person paying money into the Village
Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
account paid, and shall file copies of such receipts with the Clerk with the
monthly reports.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40) (Prior Code, § 1-2-76)
§ 31.064 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid,
showing the number, date, and amount of each, the fund from which paid, and the
name of the person to whom and when paid; and he or she shall cancel all
warrants as soon as they are redeemed by him or her.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40 and 5/3.1-35-45) (Prior Code, § 1-2-77)
§ 31.065 SEPARATION OF FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall keep all monies in his or her hands belonging to this
village separate and distinct from his or her own money, and he or she shall
not use, either directly or indirectly, the village monies or warrants in his
or her custody and keeping for his or her own use and benefit, or that of any
other person. Any violation of this section shall subject him or her to removal
from office by the Village Board.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55) (Prior Code, § 1-2-78)
§ 31.066 BOND.
   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due to neglect of
duty or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of such bond shall not
be less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments
received by the Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five fiscal
years, nor less than one and one-half times the largest amount which the Board
estimates will be in his or her custody at any one time, nor less than three
times the number of residents of the village, as determined by the last Federal
Census. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-79)
§ 31.067 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall collect all payments on special assessments and shall
see to it that the same are properly recorded and credited to the particular
account entitled thereto.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85) (Prior Code, § 1-2-80)
§ 31.068 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep the books and accounts in such a manner as to show,
with accuracy, all monies received and disbursed by him or her for the village,
stating from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what account
paid out, and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily
investigated and understood, and the books and accounts and all files and
papers of the office shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor
or the Finance Committee of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-81)
§ 31.069 STATEMENTS.
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the regular
monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
of the municipality as shown by his or her books up to the time of the report.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45) (Prior Code, § 1-2-82)
§ 31.070 REPORT DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the Village Clerk any
officer of the village authorized to receive money for the use of the village
who may fail to make a return of the monies received by the Treasurer at the
time required by law or by ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-83)
§ 31.071 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Treasurer
shall prepare and file annually with the Village Clerk an account of monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year as
specified in this section. The Treasurer shall show the following in such
account:
      (1)   All monies received by the village, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the village, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (A), the term ACCOUNT shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user, or such other persons
whose payments to the village are credited to the general account;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) below, all monies paid out by
the village where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds $1,000,
giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid, and the
total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
      (3)   All monies paid out by the village as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid,
and the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each account;
and
      (4)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account groups
of the village as excerpted from the annual financial report, as filed with the
appropriate state agency of the state.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such account from the Village Treasurer, the Village
Clerk shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers
published in the village.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65) (Prior Code, § 1-2-84)
§ 31.072 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Designation by Board. The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all
funds and monies in his or her custody belonging to the village in such places
of deposit as have been designated by division (D) below. When requested by the
Treasurer, the corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which
may be kept the funds and monies of the village in the custody of the
Treasurer. When a bank has been designated as a depository, it shall continue
as such depository until ten days have elapsed after a new depository is
designated and has qualified as provided by law. When a new depository is
designated, the corporate authorities shall notify the sureties of the Treasury
of that fact in writing at least five days before the transfer of funds.
   (B)   Qualifications of bank. No bank shall be qualified to receive village
funds or monies until it has furnished the corporate authorities with copies of
the last two sworn statements of resources and liabilities which the bank is
required to furnish to the auditor of public accounts or to the comptroller of
currency. Each bank designated as a depository for such funds or monies shall,
while acting as such depository, furnish the corporate authorities with a copy
of all statements of resources and liabilities which it is required to furnish
to the auditor of public accounts or to the comptroller of currency.
   (C)   Discharge from liability. The Treasurer shall be discharged from
liability for all funds or monies which he or she deposits in a designated bank
while the funds and monies are so deposited. If the village funds or monies are
deposited in a designated bank, however, the amount of such deposits shall not
exceed 75% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus, and the Treasurer shall be
responsible for funds or monies deposited in the bank in excess of this
limitation.
   (D)   Investments. The Treasurer is hereby authorized to invest surplus
funds or reserve funds of the municipality in the following types of
investments:
      (1)   General obligation securities of the United States of America or of
the state;
      (2)   Certificates of deposit and time deposits in any bank where such
investments are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company;
      (3)   Short term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage
Association; and
      (4)   Insured money market accounts.
   (E)   Designated banks. The following bank(s) are herewith designated as
places of deposit where the Treasurer of the village is required to keep all
funds and monies in his or her custody belonging to the municipality:
      (1)   State Treasurer’s investment pool;
      (2)   Bank of Hillsboro; and
      (3)   Associated Bank.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-85) (Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-
11-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50
VILLAGE ATTORNEY
§ 31.085 APPOINTMENT.
   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the Village Board, for the term of four years, unless sooner removed
for cause, and until a successor shall have been appointed and qualified. The
Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the village and shall be
known as the Village Attorney and shall receive an annual salary as determined
by the appropriation ordinance, compensation for office services and advice,
and shall receive reasonable fees for other services rendered when, in his or
her judgment, or in the judgment of the Mayor or Village Board, the same are
necessary or are for the best interests of the village.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5) (Prior Code, § 1-2-88)
§ 31.086 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for village. The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend
on behalf of the village in all cases in which the interests of the corporation
or any officer thereof are involved; and the Village Clerk shall furnish him or
her with certified copies of any ordinance, bond, or paper in keeping necessary
to be filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. He or she shall, when required, advise the
Village Board or any officer in all matters of law or which the interests of
the corporation are involved, and he or she shall draw such ordinances, bonds,
forms, and contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required of
him or her by the Mayor, the Village Board, or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments.
      (1)   He or she shall direct executions to be issued upon all judgments
recovered in favor of the village, and he or she shall direct their prompt
service.
      (2)   He or she shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts,
and of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their correctness and
the liability of the village therefor as requested.
   (D)   Violations of ordinances. He or she shall institute and prosecute an
action in every case of violation of a village ordinance when instructed to do
so by the Mayor or the Village Board.
   (E)   Prosecution of suits. He or she shall not be required to prosecute any
suit or action arising under the ordinances of the village when, upon
investigation of the same, he or she shall become satisfied that the complaint
was instituted maliciously, vexatiously, or without just cause; and he or she
shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he
or she may deem just or equitable.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10)
   (F)   Collection of taxes. He or she is hereby authorized and instructed to
enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the village is interested and to attend all sales of real
or personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments, and to bid thereat on behalf of the village when requested.
   (G)   Commissions.
      (1)   The Village Attorney shall act as the legal advisory for the Plan
Commission, for the Zoning Board of Appeals, and for all other boards and
commissions hereafter established by the Village Board.
      (2)   He or she shall perform all legal services as may be required for
those boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-89)
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.100 OFFICE CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of Superintendent, an executive office of
the village. The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-98)
§ 31.101 STREETS.
   The Superintendent shall have charge of the construction and care of all
public streets, alleys, and driveways in the village, and with keeping the same
clean. He or she shall see to it that all gutters and drains therein function
properly and that the same are kept free from defects.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-99)
§ 31.102 LIGHTING.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall supervise the lighting of the
public streets and alleys, and shall keep the lighting system in efficient
operation and good repair.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-100)
§ 31.103 DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.
   All officers or employees assigned to the Department of Public Works shall
perform their duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the
Superintendent of Water/Sewer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-102)
§ 31.104 PROPERTY CUSTODIAN.
   The Superintendent of Water/Sewer shall be the custodian of all property of
the village which is not assigned to the care or custody of any other officer.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-103)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Plan Commission
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Term of office
   
32.04   Procedure
   
32.05   Powers and duties
   
32.06   Land subdivision or re-subdivision; official map
   
32.07   Improvements
   
32.08   Further purposes
   
32.09   Expenditures
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   A Plan Commission is hereby created under authority of the 65 ILCS 5/11-12-
4 through 5/11-12-12.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, said members to be
residents of the village, appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their
particular fitness for their duty on the Plan Commission and subject to the
approval of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 32.03 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The members shall serve for a period of five years. Vacancies shall be
filled by appointment for the unexpired term only. All members of the
Commission shall serve without compensation, except that if the Village Board
deems it advisable, they may receive such compensation as provided by the
Village Board by appropriation.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3)
§ 32.04 PROCEDURE.
   The Plan Commission shall elect such officers as it may deem necessary and
adopt rules and regulations of organization and procedure consistent with the
village code and state law. The Commission shall keep written records of its
proceedings. It shall be open at all times for and to the inspection of the
public, and the Commission shall file an annual report with the Mayor and
Village Board setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4)
§ 32.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   (1)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village and
contiguous unincorporated territory not more than one and one-half miles beyond
the corporate limits of the village and not included in any other municipality.
Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional
parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or
part thereof of the village. Such plan shall be advisory except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the Village
Board.
      (2)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds, and filing of the plan and ordinances with
the Village Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. To provide for
the health, safety, comfort, and convenience of the inhabitants of the village
and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall establish reasonable
standards of design for subdivisions and for re-subdivisions of unimproved land
and of areas subject to redevelopment in respect to public improvements as
herein defined, and shall establish reasonable requirements governing the
location, width, course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys,
ways for public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential
purposes, stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers,
and sewage collection and treatment. The requirements specified herein shall
become regulatory only when adopted by law.
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation;
   (C)   To recommend to the Village Board, from time to time, such changes in
the comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the Village Board, from time to time,
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance to the
official comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan or parts
thereof, to further the making of such improvements and generally, to promote
the realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   To cooperate with municipal or regional plan commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local plan program and to assure harmonious
and integrated planning for the area subject to approval of the Village Board;
and
   (H)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the General Assembly of the state as may be conferred by
the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 32.06 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RE-SUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which may consist of the whole area included within
the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or functional
parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous unincorporated area
within one and one-half miles from the corporate limits of the village. All
requirements for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with the County
Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances, including the official
map with the Clerk shall be complied with as provided for by law. No map or
plat of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for record affecting land
within the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous territory which
is not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate limits shall be
entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon
provides for standards of design and standards governing streets, alleys,
public ways, ways for public service facilities, street lights, public grounds,
size of lots to be used for residential purposes, and distribution, sanitary
sewers, and sewage collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable
requirements of the code, including the official map.
(65 ILCS 5/11-12-12) (Prior Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 32.07 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission for its consideration a
copy of all ordinances, plans, and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 32.08 FURTHER PURPOSES.
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate, and limit the building or setback lines on or
along the street, traffic way, drive, parkway, or storm or floodwater runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential, and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area, and of such different classes (according to use of land and
buildings, height, and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area,
area of open spaces, or other classification), as may be deemed best suited to
carry out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8)
§ 32.09 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the Village
Board and if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice
or services, it shall be done upon authority of the Village Board and
appropriations by the Village Board therefor.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Salaries regulation
   
33.02   Claims
   
33.03   Municipal year
   
33.04   Expenses; reimbursement
   
33.05   Federal Old Age and Survivor’s Insurance System
Bidding and Contracts
   
33.20   Procedures
   
33.21   Pecuniary interests in contracts; prohibition
Investment Policy
   
33.35   Prudence
   
33.36   Objective
   
33.37   Delegation of authority
   
33.38   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
33.39   Authorized financial dealers; institutions
   
33.40   Authorized and suitable investments
   
33.41   Collateralization
   
33.42   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.43   Diversification
   
33.44   Performance standards
   
33.45   Reporting
   
33.46   Investment policy adoption
 
   
33.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Official records, see §
11.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 SALARIES REGULATION.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5 and 5/3.1-50-10) (Prior Code, § 1-2-29)
Editor’s note:
   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in the
appropriation ordinance or annual budget. The salary of elected officials must
be established in an ordinance other than the appropriation ordinance.
§ 33.02 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the village for goods purchased,
damaged, or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance, shall be presented on or before
the first Friday of each month to the Village Clerk. All such claims must be in
writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the Village Board from passing on
any claims not previously presented to the Village Clerk if, in the opinion of
the Board, justice to the claimant requires it.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-30)
§ 33.03 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year shall commence on May 1 and shall end on the following
April 30. No appointments shall be made during the last month of the municipal
year in the year of a mayoral election.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-31)
§ 33.04 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Any municipal officer or employee is entitled to reimbursement for any
reasonable, actual expenses incurred by him or her in the performance of his or
her duties.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(B)) (Prior Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 33.05 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR’S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the village, eligible
under the Federal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., except persons elected
to office by popular election, and also the Village Treasurer and Village
Clerk.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in the sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts
and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations, and shall be paid quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-34)
BIDDING AND CONTRACTS
§ 33.20 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding request. Any work or other public improvement
which is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or
special taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials,
and services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids.
   (B)   Formal contract procedure. All work or other public improvement which
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders, or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services except as otherwise provided herein, when
the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $20,000, shall be purchased from the
lowest responsible bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive
bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Trustees then holding office.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the village. The village
shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the
public bulletin board in the Village Hall.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful
bidders shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of
the contract by the Board of Trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any
bid deposit required by the Board of Trustees upon failure on his or her part
to enter into a contract within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
Board of Trustees or by a village employee, in which event, a tabulation of the
bids shall be furnished to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The village shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to village. The village shall not accept the bid of
a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other
monies due the village.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in village. The Board of Trustees shall have the
authority to award contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the Board of
Trustees shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (3)   Performance bonds. The Board of Trustees shall have the authority
to require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts
as it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the
village.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials,
and services of less than the estimated value of $20,000 shall be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers, and architects, and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by the village without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency which requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials, or services, the Board of
Trustees shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set
forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials, or
services regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The village shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the village would be served thereby.
(65 ILCS 5/2-2-12, 5/8-9-1, and 5/8-9-2) (Prior Code, § 1-2-27)
§ 33.21 PECUNIARY INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No municipal officer shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in
his or her own name or in the name of any other person, association, trust, or
corporation, in any contract, work, or business of the municipality, or in the
sale of any article, whenever the expense, price, or consideration of the
contract, work, business, or sale is paid either from the treasury or by any
assessment levied by any statute or ordinance. No municipal officer shall be
interested, directly or indirectly, in the purchase of any property which:
      (1)   Belongs to the municipality;
      (2)   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
      (3)   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the municipality.
   (B)   However, any elected or appointed member of the governing body and any
person serving on a municipal advisory panel or commission may provide
materials, merchandise, property, services, or labor, if:
      (1)   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or cooperative association in which such interested member of the
governing body of the municipality or advisory panel or commission member has
less than a 7.5% share in the ownership;
      (2)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of his or
her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed award of
the contract;
      (3)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the contract,
though he or she shall be considered present for the purposes of establishing a
quorum;
      (4)   Such contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office;
      (5)   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest responsible
bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds $1,500, but the contract may be
awarded without bidding if the amount is less than $1,500; and
      (6)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed $25,000.
   (C)   In addition to the above exemption, any elected or appointed member of
the governing body and any person serving on a municipal advisory panel or
commission may provide materials, merchandise, property, services, or labor if:
      (1)   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the municipality provided that, in the case of an elected or
appointed member of the governing body, any such interested member shall
abstain from voting;
      (2)   The amount of the contract does not exceed $2,000;
      (3)   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed $4,000; and
      (4)   In the case of an elected or appointed member of the governing
body, such interested member publicly disclosed the nature and extent of his or
her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning present for the
purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (D)   (1)   A contract for the procurement of public utility services by a
municipality with a public utility company is not barred by this section by one
or more members of the governing body being an officer or employee of the
public utility company or holding interest if no more than 7.5% in the public
utility company, or holding an ownership interest of any size if the
municipality has a population of less than 7,500 and the public utility’s rates
are approved by the State Commerce Commission.
      (2)   An elected or appointed member of the governing body having such an
interest shall be deemed not to have a prohibited interest under this section.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Nothing contained in this section, including the
restrictions set forth in divisions (B), (C), and (D) above, shall preclude a
contract or deposit of monies, loans, or other financial services by a
municipality with a local bank or local savings and loan association,
regardless of whether a member or members of the governing body of the
municipality are interested in such bank or savings and loan association as an
officer or employee or as a holder of less than 7.5% of the total ownership
interest.
         (b)   A member or members holding such an interest in such a contract
shall not be deemed to be holding a prohibited interest for purposes of this
act.
      (2)   (a)   Such interested member or members of the governing body must
publicly state the nature and extent of their interest during deliberations
concerning the proposed award of such a contract, but shall not participate in
any further deliberations concerning the proposed award.
         (b)   Such interested members or members shall not vote on such a
proposed award.
      (3)   Any member or members abstaining from participation in
deliberations and voting under this section may be considered present for
purposes of establishing a quorum. Award of such a contract shall require
approval by a majority of those members presently holding office. Consideration
and award of any such contract in which a member or members are interested may
only be made at a regularly scheduled public meeting of the governing body of
the municipality.
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10) (Prior Code, § 1-2-28)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.35 PRUDENCE.
   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances then
prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercise in
the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the probable
income to be derived.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.36 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state, and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield. Attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the village’s needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification, and its general performance.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.37 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who, under the delegation of the Board of
Trustees, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the
investment program.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.38 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.39 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS; INSTITUTIONS.
   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-5) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.40 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-6) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.41 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit, and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits ($100,000) must be secured by some form of collateral
witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent third party
institution in the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-7) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.42 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase
agreements, entered into by the village shall be conducted on a delivery-
versus-payment (DVP) basis.
   (B)   Securities will be held by an independent third party custodian
designated by the Treasurer and a written custodial agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-8) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.43 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The village shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based
on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in, and length of maturity.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-9) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.44 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within the policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity,
and credit quality as the portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-10) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.45 REPORTING.
   (A)   The Treasurer may prepare an investment report at least monthly. The
report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available on request.
   (B)   The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. This is provided by the monthly Treasurer’s report. An annual report
should also be provided to the Board. The annual report is provided by the
annual audit and the annual Treasurer’s report.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-11) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.46 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   The investment policy shall be adopted by the Board of Trustees. The policy
shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Treasurer and any modifications
made thereto must be approved by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-12) (Ord. 1999-10, passed 12-14-1999)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any officer who violates §
33.21 is guilty of a Class 4 felony and in addition thereto any office held by
such person so convicted shall become vacant and shall be so declared as part
of the judgment of the court.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-28)
CHAPTER 34: TAXATION
Section
General Taxes
   
34.001   Corporate tax
   
34.002   Police tax
   
34.003   Audit tax
   
34.004   FICA tax
   
34.005   General liability
Hotel, Motel Tax
   
34.020   Definitions
   
34.021   Tax
   
34.022   Exclusion
   
34.023   Books and records
   
34.024   Transmittal of tax revenue
   
34.025   Collection
   
34.026   Proceeds of tax and fines
Utility Taxes
   
34.040   Tax imposed
   
34.041   Definitions
   
34.042   Businesses excluded from tax
   
34.043   Tax return
   
34.044   Overpayment of tax
   
34.045   Limitation on action to recover tax due
Telecommunications Tax
   
34.060   Tax established
Electric Utility Tax
   
34.075   Tax imposed
   
34.076   Exceptions
   
34.077   Additional taxes
   
34.078   Collection
   
34.079   Reports to village
   
34.080   Credit for over-payment
Taxpayer’s Rights
   
34.095   Title
   
34.096   Scope
   
34.097   Definitions
   
34.098   Notices
   
34.099   Late payment
   
34.100   Payment
   
34.101   Certain credits and refunds
   
34.102   Audit procedure
   
34.103   Appeal
   
34.104   Hearing
   
34.105   Interest and violations
   
34.106   Abatement
   
34.107   Installment contracts
   
34.108   Statute of limitations
   
34.109   Voluntary disclosure
   
34.110   Publication of tax ordinances
   
34.111   Internal review procedure
   
34.112   Application
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL TAXES
§ 34.001 CORPORATE TAX.
   The maximum rate for general corporate purposes of the village shall be and
the same is hereby established at a rate of 0.25%.
(65 ILCS 5/8-3-1) (Prior Code, § 36-2-1)
§ 34.002 POLICE TAX.
   The maximum rate for police protection purposes of the village shall be and
the same is hereby established at a rate of 0.075%.
(65 ILCS 5/11-1-3) (Prior Code, § 36-2-2)
§ 34.003 AUDIT TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a “Municipal Auditing Tax” upon all taxable
property in the village which will produce an amount which will equal the cost
of all auditing for the village.
(65 ILCS 5/8-8-8) (Prior Code, § 36-2-3)
§ 34.004 FICA TAX.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to participate in the federal Social Security
System.
(50 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 36-2-4)
§ 34.005 GENERAL LIABILITY.
   The Village Board may levy a tax upon all taxable property in the village at
whatever rate is necessary to purchase general liability insurance for the
village.
(Prior Code, § 36-2-5)
HOTEL, MOTEL TAX
§ 34.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room within a structure containing five hotel or
motel rooms or more offered for rental on a daily basis and containing
facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental with or without an
adjoining bath shall be considered as a single HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOM. The number
of HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS within a suite shall be computed on the basis of those
rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNER. Any person having an ownership interest in, conducting the operation
of a hotel or motel room, or receiving the consideration for the rental of such
hotel or motel rooms.
   PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user, or owner, or any officers, agents, employees, or other
representative, acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular, or plural is included in any
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-1) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 34.021 TAX.
   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of 3% of the rent charged for the
privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room within the village, for each
24-hour period or any portion thereof for which a daily room charge is made;
provided, however, that the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any person
who rents a hotel or motel room for more than 30 consecutive days, or to a
person who works and lives in the same hotel or motel.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-2) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 34.022 EXCLUSION.
   (A)   Any hotel or motel having less than five hotel or motel rooms is
excluded from the tax imposed under this subchapter.
   (B)   The ultimate incidence of, and liability for payment of said tax is to
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, said person hereinafter referred to as “renter.”
   (C)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure said tax from the renter of the motel or hotel room, and to pay over to
the Village Clerk or any authorized representative of the village said tax
under procedures prescribed by the Village Clerk or as otherwise provided in
this subchapter.
   (D)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this subchapter
shall secure said tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment,
the amount due under the tax provided in this subchapter shall be stated
separately on said document.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 34.023 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk or authorized representative, may enter the premises of
any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of records in order to
effectuate the proper administration of this subchapter, and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Village Clerk or authorized
representative in the discharge of their duties in the enforcement of this
subchapter. It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Village Clerk or authorized representative shall
at all times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet
showing:
   (A)   The number of hotel or motel rooms renting during the 24-hour period,
including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel rooms where such shall
occur; and
   (B)   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-4) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.024 TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE.
   (A)   Commencing on June 1, 1989, the owner or owners of each hotel or motel
within the village shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with
respect to each hotel and motel room during each month commencing June 1, 1989.
The return shall be due on or before the last day of each succeeding calendar
month, and the return shall indicate for what period the return is to be filed;
for example, return for January tax receipts is due on or before the last day
of February.
   (B)   Commencing on June 1, 1989, the tax return and payment for such period
shall be due on or before July 1, 1989. Thereafter reporting periods and taxes
shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. At the time
of filing said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Village Clerk all taxes
due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (C)   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of 1.5% compounded every 30 days or portion thereof, from the date of
delinquency, including all fees incurred to collect said tax and or penalty
shall be added and collected.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-5) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 34.025 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein provided, the
Village Board shall, upon the request of the Board of Trustees bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on behalf of the
village in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-6) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
§ 34.026 PROCEEDS OF TAX AND FINES.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this subchapter,
including penalties, shall be appropriated as follows.
   (A)   Three percent of the gross tax revenue collected each year shall be
appropriated for and directed to the office of the Village Clerk to defray the
costs of administering and processing the imposition, application, and
collection of the tax.
   (B)   All the rest, residue, and remainder of the tax revenue collected each
year shall be paid into the Treasury of the village into a special fund to be
expended solely to promote tourism, conventions, or otherwise attract non-
resident overnight visitors to the village.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-7) (Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
UTILITY TAXES
§ 34.040 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas, including but not limited to propane gas for the
use or consumption within the corporate limits of the village and not for
resale, at the rate of 2.5% of the gross receipts therefrom; and
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for the use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the village and not for resale at the rate of 2.5% of the
gross receipts therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-1) (Ord. 95-5, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 34.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the distribution, supplying,
or furnishing gas, including, but not limited to, propane gas or electricity
for use and consumption and not for resale, as the case may be, and for all
services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in
money or otherwise, including cash, credit services, and property of every kind
and material for all services rendered therewith, and shall be determined
without any deduction of account for the cost of this service, product, or
commodities supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever. GROSS RECEIPTS shall not include any charges added
to the customers’ bills pursuant to the provisions of §§ 9/221 or 9/222 of the
State Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq. or any other
separately stated charge added to customers’ bills in respect of any tax or any
other governmental imposition, or receipts from the village for the sale to
that village of any utility, products, or services. The term GROSS RECEIPTS
shall also not include that portion of the consideration received for
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas or electricity to the
school districts or units of local government.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation, or political subdivision of the state or receiver, trustee,
conservator, or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-2) (Ord. 95-5, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 34.042 BUSINESSES EXCLUDED FROM TAX.
   No taxes imposed by this subchapter with respect to any transaction or
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any
person engage in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or
selling gas including, but not limited to, propane gas or electricity be
subject to taxation under the provisions of this subchapter for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. as
authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 of the State Municipal Code.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-3) (Ord. 95-5, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 34.043 TAX RETURN.
   (A)   Each taxpayer shall make a tax return as required by this subchapter
to the Village Treasurer on or before the last day of each month, stating:
      (1)   The name of the taxpayer;
      (2)   The principal place of the business of the taxpayer;
      (3)   The gross receipts during the prior month from the basis of which
the taxes were imposed;
      (4)   The amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of making such return,
pay to the Village Treasurer the amount of tax herein imposed. In connection
with any return the taxpayer may, if the taxpayer so desires, report and pay an
amount based upon total billings of business subject to the tax during the
period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously
billed) with the proper adjustments of later payments based upon any
differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipt.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-4) (Ord. 95-5, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 34.044 OVERPAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   If it shall appear that any amount of tax under this subchapter has
been paid which was not in fact due, whether as a result of a mistake or a fact
or an error of all, then such amount shall be recovered against any tax due, or
to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment.
   (B)   However, no amount erroneously paid more than three years prior to the
filing of the claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-5) (Ord. 95-5, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 34.045 LIMITATION ON ACTION TO RECOVER TAX DUE.
   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of such
amount.
(Prior Code, § 36-3-6) (Ord. 95-5, passed 8-14-1995)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 34.060 TAX ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a 5% tax rate pursuant to §§ 5-25 and 5-30 of
the Simplified Municipal Telecommunication Tax Act (Pub. Act 92-0526), being
ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36-4-1) (Ord. 2002-7, passed 9-9-2002)
ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
§ 34.075 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges:
      (1)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
village the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
First 2,000 KWH     0.2585 cents per KWH
Next 48,000 KWH     0.1695 cents per KWH
Next 50,000 KWH     0.1526 cents per KWH
Next 400,000 KWH    0.1483 cents per KWH
Next 500,000 KWH    0.1441 cents per KWH
Next 2,000,000 KWH  0.1356 cents per KWH
Next 2,000,000 RWH  0.1335 cents per KWH
Next 5,000,000 KWH  0.1314 cents per KWH
Next 10,000,000 KWH 0.1293 cents per KWH
Over 20,000,000 KWH 0.1271 cents per KWH
 
      (2)   The tax rates set forth in division (A)(1) above will be used at
least through December 31, 2008, are proportional to the rates enumerated in 65
ILCS 5/8-11-2 (as modified by Pub. Act 90-561), and do not exceed the revenue
that could have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated in 65
ILCS 5/8-11-2 (as modified by Pub. Act 90-561).
   (B)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth in division (A)(1)
above shall be effective:
      (1)   On August 1, 1998 for residential customers; and
      (2)   On the earlier of:
         (a)   The last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or
         (b)   The date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-104
for non-residential customers.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A)(1) above shall not be effective until
August 1, 1998.
   (D)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the village and not
for resale at the rate of 2.5% of the gross receipts therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-1)
§ 34.076 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with
respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to
which the business or privileges may not, under the Constitution and statutes
of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state or any
political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. as authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-
11-1.
   (B)   Nor shall any tax authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any
person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in
like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in business of the
same class in the village, whether privately or village owned or operated, or
exercising the same privilege within the village.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2)
§ 34.077 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-3)
§ 34.078 COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity.
   (B)   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this subchapter and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt
owed to the village by such person delivering the electricity.
   (C)   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax, and supplying data
to the village upon request.
   (D)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
village in the manner prescribed by the village. On or before the last day of
each month, persons delivering electricity shall make a return to the village
for the preceding month and shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-4)
§ 34.079 REPORTS TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the village for the preceding month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-5)
§ 34.080 CREDIT FOR OVER-PAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-6)
TAXPAYER’S RIGHTS
§ 34.095 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Code” or “this subchapter.”
(Prior Code, § 36-6-1) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.096 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-2) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.097 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45/
1 et seq.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The village is charged with the administration and
collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes, including staff,
employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the local tax
administrator to act in the local tax administrator’s stead. The LOCAL TAX
ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this code to
give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such authority by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this code and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Livingston, Madison County, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-3) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.098 NOTICES.
   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the
notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled act of the
local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax
administrator as follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-4) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.099 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-5) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.100 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-6) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.101 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax interest and penalties overpaid and as
applicable related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-7) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.102 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this code.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C) The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the event taxpayer
is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may
request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that is
convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-8) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.103 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-9) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.104 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
34.103, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination,
audit, or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-10) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.105 INTEREST AND VIOLATIONS.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or non-payment of the tax, to be 9%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and. manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 4.5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 4.5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 10% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-11) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.106 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-12) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.107 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-13) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.108 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the village,
and the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations
shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return
for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-14) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.109 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has
not received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment form
the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with
the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A
taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount
of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the
filing of the application but not more than four years before the date of
filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed.
   (B)   However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the
amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with
applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the
result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application
shall be deemed invalid and void.
   (C)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within 90 days after a final determination and the
exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-15) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.110 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-16) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.111 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
   (B)   Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is
valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is
determined to be improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-17) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.112 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to
supplement all of the village’s tax ordinances.
   (B)   To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 36-6-18) (Ord. 2001-5, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation found willfully guilty of
failing to pay, collect, report, and transmit said hotel or motel tax to the
Village Clerk in accordance with the terms of §§
34.020 through
34.026 shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction
thereof be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
      (2)   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
day upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any
such violation to exist after notification thereof.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-8)
   (C)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
34.075 through
34.080 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200 and in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-7)
(Ord. 89-5, passed 4-10-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
CHAPTER 35: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Department established
   
35.02   Office of Chief created
   
35.03   Duties of Chief
   
35.04   Appointment of police officers
   
35.05   Salary
   
35.06   Duties
   
35.07   Mutual aid contract
   
35.08   Legal processes
   
35.09   Assisting police officer
   
35.10   Aiding Fire Department
   
35.11   Failure to perform
   
35.12   Aiding in escape
   
35.13   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
35.14   Witness fees
   
35.15   Rules and regulations
   
35.16   Training
   
35.17   Stolen property
   
35.18   Mayor as Chief
   
35.19   Part-time officers
Cross-reference:
   Agreement with law enforcement; Fair Labor Standards Act, see §
37.04
   Offenses against law enforcement, see
Chapter 134
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of police officers, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-2
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
village which shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Department
shall consist of the Chief of Police and of such number of police officers as
may be provided from time to time by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-1)
§ 35.02 OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby established the office of the Chief of Police. The Chief of
Police shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-2)
§ 35.03 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of his or her Department as may be required. The Chief shall be
responsible for the performance of the Police Department and of all its
functions, and all persons who are members of the Department shall serve
subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-3)
§ 35.04 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   A sufficient number of police officers shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the advice and consent of the Village Board. A police officer may be
appointed to office by the Mayor and Village Board if he or she meets the
necessary qualifications notwithstanding the fact that the police officer is
not a resident of the village when appointed or when he or she is to serve as
such an official.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-4)
§ 35.05 SALARY.
   The Police Department shall receive such compensation as may be provided by
village ordinance or by resolution of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-5)
§ 35.06 DUTIES.
   (A)   The police officer shall devote his or her entire time to the
performance of the duties of his or her office and is hereby charged with the
preservation of the peace, order, and safety of the village and with the duty
of protecting the rights of persons and property and of enforcing all laws and
also all orders of the Village Board.
   (B)   He or she shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions, and
defects on the highways or other public places, and shall cause the same to be
abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer
whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
   (C)   When requested by the Mayor he or she shall attend, either in person
or by deputy, all meetings of the Village Board, execute all its orders, and
close the Board Chamber upon the adjournment of that body.
   (D)   He or she shall also execute all warrants or other legal process
required to be executed by him or her under any ordinance of the village or
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-6)
§ 35.07 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the Village Board, may enter
into an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-7)
§ 35.08 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have the power and authority to execute village warrants or
other similar legal processes outside the corporate limits of the village and
within such distance therefrom as authorized by law in all cases when any
ordinance of the Village Board made pursuant to law shall prescribe a penalty
for the violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting, or
doing any business within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-9)
§ 35.09 ASSISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   Every police officer of the village may, at any time, call upon any able-
bodied person(s) above the age of 18 years to aid him or her in the arresting,
retaking, or holding in custody of any person guilty of having committed any
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-10)
§ 35.10 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-11)
§ 35.11 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this code or the rules and regulations of
the Department, or who shall be in the discharge of his or her official duties,
guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions, or willful wrong or
injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-12)
§ 35.12 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the village to resist or obstruct any
member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or to endeavor
to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any member of the
Police Department to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody or to
attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.13 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on an active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the village shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor
or non-prescription drugs of any kind and intoxication at any time shall be
sufficient cause for removal.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.14 WITNESS FEES.
   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever this is
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any state or
federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the village is a party, and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police who shall deposit the same
with the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-15)
§ 35.15 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the Police Department as he or she shall
deem advisable and such rules, when approved by the Mayor, shall be binding on
such members.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-16)
§ 35.16 TRAINING.
   (A)   All full-time police officers, prior to entering upon any of their
duties, shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other
police procedures by the proper authorities as established by the state. Such
courses of training shall not be less than 400 hours in duration.
   (B)   Upon completion of the training, the applicant shall file with the
Clerk a certificate attesting to the completion of the courses.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-17)
§ 35.17 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the village.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-18)
§ 35.18 MAYOR AS CHIEF.
   In the event the Chief of Police has not been appointed as provided in §
35.02, the Mayor shall be the acting Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 30-2-19)
§ 35.19 PART-TIME OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary. Part-time police officers shall be appointed by
the Chief of Police with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
State Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and
requirements of the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board
(ILETSB).
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time police officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the Chief of Police or majority vote of
the Village Board at any time. Part-time police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and general orders issued by the Police Department.
(Ord. 2023-4, passed 8-10-2023)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Declaration of emergency
   
36.03   Curfew
   
36.04   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
36.05   Effectiveness
   
36.06   Notification
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority of law; or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake, or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing, or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property, or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to the civil emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 36.02 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency as defined in §
36.01 exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 36.03 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole as he or she deems advisable and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 36.04 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever; and
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 36.05 EFFECTIVENESS.
   (A)   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of
48 hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating
that the civil emergency no longer exists.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence of a civil
emergency at the end of each 48-hour period during the time the civil emergency
exists.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 36.06 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the village and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village:
   (A)   The Village Hall;
   (B)   The post office; and
   (C)   The Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 30-1-6)
CHAPTER 37: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
Fair Labor Standards Act
   
37.01   Purpose
   
37.02   Prior agreement
   
37.03   Lawful enforcement activities
   
37.04   Prior agreement with law enforcement
   
37.05   Other terms
Sexual Harassment Policy
   
37.20   Prohibition
   
37.21   Definition
   
37.22   Procedure for reporting
   
37.23   Prohibition on retaliation
   
37.24   False reports
Employee Discipline Policy
   
37.35   Procedure
   
37.36   Verbal reprimand
   
37.37   Written reprimand
   
37.38   Probation
   
37.39   Administrative leave
   
37.40   Suspension
   
37.41   Dismissal
   
37.42   Code of conduct
   
37.43   Political activities
   
37.44   Employee discipline form
Workplace Violence Protection Policy
   
37.55   Title, purpose, declaration
   
37.56   Definition
   
37.57   Prohibited conduct
   
37.58   Reporting workplace violence
   
37.59   Retaliation; false, frivolous complaints
 
   
37.99   Penalty
FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT
§ 37.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by the Fair Labor Standards Act, the
employees of the village are entitled to compensation for overtime as defined
by the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 C.F.R. Part 553 and compensatory time shall
be earned by employees in lieu of overtime payment of cash.
   (B)   A copy of application of the Fair Labor Standards Act to employees of
state and local governments, attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated by reference. The definition of any terms appearing in this
subchapter which are also used in aforesaid act shall be the same as in said
act.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 1999-7, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 37.02 PRIOR AGREEMENT.
   (A)   There is a prior agreement between the village and its employees that
the village provides compensatory time off instead of overtime which is earned
at a rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of overtime worked. Employees
engaged in seasonal activities must be paid cash overtime for overtime worked
after they have accrued 480 hours of compensatory time (320 actual overtime
hours plus one-half), all other employees must be paid cash overtime after
accruing 240 hours (160 actual overtime hours plus one-half), and employees
wishing to use their compensatory time are allowed to do so within a reasonable
period after making request if the use of the compensatory time does not unduly
disrupt the operations of the public agency as provided by 29 U.S.C. § 207(o).
   (B)   (1)   Use of compensatory time shall be presumed not to be unduly
disruptive when an employee makes a written request for up to and including 16
hours or two regularly scheduled shifts five days in advance of the use of
compensatory time and said written request is submitted to and approved by the
employee’s supervisor or, if the request is made by the supervisor, is
submitted to and approved by the appointed Committee Chairperson of the Board
of the village for that supervisor’s department or to the Mayor.
      (2)   Use of compensatory time in excess of 16 hours or two regularly
scheduled shifts, whichever is greater, is presumed to be unduly disruptive
unless a written request is made five days in advance of the use of
compensatory time and said written request is submitted to and approved by the
employee’s supervisor or, if the request is made by the supervisor, is
submitted to and approved by the appointed Committee Chairperson of the Board
of the village for that supervisor’s department or to the Mayor.
      (3)   Use of compensatory time in combination with personal days or
vacation days is presumed to be unduly disruptive unless a written request is
made five days in advance of the use of compensatory time and said written
request is submitted to and approved by the employee’s supervisor or, if the
request is made by the supervisor, is submitted to and approved by the
appointed Committee Chairperson of the Board of the village for that
supervisor’s department or to the Mayor.
   (C)   The accumulation of overtime shall be computed in accordance with the
Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.
   (D)   A WORK WEEK is defined by pay period for the village for purposes of
computing compensatory time. A copy of this subchapter shall be provided to all
employees hired after the effective date of this subchapter and shall serve as
notice to each employee that the compensatory time received may be preserved,
used or cashed out consistent with the provisions of § 7(o) of the Act.
   (E)   Payments for unused compensatory time shall be paid pursuant to the
provision of 29 C.F.R. § 553.27 attached hereto.
   (F)   Pay for overtime hours worked during the regular work period, as
defined, or on a holiday shall not be duplicated, pyramided, or counted more
than once for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 1999-7, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 37.03 LAWFUL ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES.
   In addition to the employees covered under the Fair Labor and Standards Act,
being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., employees employed in law enforcement
activities of the village (public agency) who employs during the work week less
than five employees in law enforcement activities and are, therefore, exempt
under the provisions of § 13(b)(20) of the Fair Labor Standards Act are
entitled to overtime compensation, and compensatory time shall be earned by
employees employed in law enforcement activities in lieu of overtime payment of
cash as defined and set forth in the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 1999-7, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 37.04 PRIOR AGREEMENT WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   There is a prior agreement between the village and its employees
employed in law enforcement activities that the village provides compensatory
time off instead of overtime which is earned at a rate of one and one-half
hours for each hour of overtime worked, employees engaged in public safety
activities and emergency response activities must be paid cash overtime for
overtime worked after they have accrued 480 hours of compensatory time (320
actual overtime hours plus one-half) and employees wishing to use their
compensatory time are allowed to do so within a reasonable period after making
request if the use of the compensatory time does not unduly disrupt the
operations of the public agency as provided by 29 U.S.C. § 207(o).
   (B)   Use of compensatory time shall be presumed not to be unduly disruptive
when an employee makes a written request for up to and including 16 hours or
two regularly scheduled shifts five days in advance of the use of compensatory
time and said written request is submitted to and approved by the employee’s
supervisor or, if the request is made by the supervisor, is submitted to and
approved by the appointed Committee Chairperson of the Board of the village for
that supervisor’s department or to the Mayor. Use of compensatory time in
excess of 16 hours or two regularly scheduled shifts, whichever is greater, is
presumed to be unduly disruptive unless a written request is made five days in
advance of the use of compensatory time and said written request is submitted
to and approved by the employee’s supervisor or, if the request is made by the
supervisor, is submitted to and approved by the appointed Committee Chairperson
of the Board of the village for that supervisor’s department or to the Mayor.
Use of compensatory time in combination with personal days or vacation days is
presumed to be unduly disruptive unless a written request is made five days in
advance of the use of compensatory time and said written request is submitted
to and approved by the employee’s supervisor or, if the request is made by the
supervisor, is submitted to and approved by the appointed Committee Chairperson
of the Board of the village for that supervisor’s department or to the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The accumulation of overtime shall be computed in
accordance with the wage and hour provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act,
being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq. Pay for overtime hours worked during the regular
work period, as defined, or on a holiday shall not be duplicated, pyramided, or
counted more than once for the purpose of computing overtime pay.
         (b)   A work period for employees employed in public safety activities
and emergency response activities including law enforcement activities is
defined by pay period for the village for purposes of computing compensatory
time.
         (c)   No overtime compensation is required until the number of hours
worked exceeds the number of hours which bears the same relationship to 171 as
the number of days in the work period bears to 28. The ratio of 171 hours to 28
days for employees engaged in law enforcement activities is 6.11 hours per day
(rounded). Accordingly, overtime compensation (in premium pay or compensatory
time) is required for all hours worked in excess of the following maximum hours
standards (rounded to the nearest tenth):
Work Period Maximum Hour Standards
Work Period Maximum Hour Standards
11          67
12          73
13          79
14          86
15          92
16          98
17          104
21          128.31
 
      (2)   See 29 U.S.C. § 207(k) and 29 C.F.R. § 553.230. A copy of this
subchapter shall be provided to all employees hired after the effective date of
this subchapter and shall serve as notice to each employee that the
compensatory time received may be preserved, used, or cashed out consistent
with the provisions of § 7(o) of the Act. Payments for unused compensatory
time-shall be paid pursuant to the provisions of 29 C.F.R. § 553.27 attached
hereto.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 1999-7, passed 6-14-1999)
§ 37.05 OTHER TERMS.
   All other terms of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et
seq. remain in full force and effect. In the event one or more of the
provisions contained herein shall be declared to be null and void, said
declaration shall not, in any manner, affect or nullify any of the remaining
provisions of this subchapter, and they shall continue in full force and
effect. All other exemptions under the Fair Labor Standards Act remain in full
force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 1999-7, passed 6-14-1999)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 37.20 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex.
The courts have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination
under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.
      (2)   All persons have a right to work in an environment free from sexual
harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects
individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the
village to prohibit harassment of any person by any municipal official,
municipal agent, municipal employee, municipal agency, or municipal office on
the basis of sex or gender.
   (B)   All municipal officials, municipal agents, municipal employees, and
municipal agencies or municipal offices are prohibited from sexually harassing
any person, regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 6-11-2020) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as
stated in the State Human Rights Act, being 775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., which
currently defines SEXUAL HARASSMENT as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of an
individual’s employment, either explicitly or implicitly;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes, but is not
limited to the following.
         (a)   NON-VERBAL HARASSMENT. Suggestive or insulting sounds
(whistling), leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures,
“catcalls,” “smacking,” or “kissing” noises.
         (b)   PHYSICAL HARASSMENT. Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing,
pinching, brushing the body, or any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (c)   TEXTUAL/ELECTRONIC HARASSMENT. “Sexting” (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures or video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking, and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (email/text/picture/video messages, intranet/online
postings, blogs, instant messages, and posts on social network websites, like
Facebook and Twitter).
         (d)   VERBAL HARASSMENT. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments,
insults, humor, jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates; or statements of a sexual
nature about other employees, even outside of their presence.
         (e)   VISUAL. posters, signs, pin-ups, or slogans of a sexual nature,
or viewing pornographic material or websites.
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of SEXUAL HARASSMENT are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some SEXUAL HARASSMENT is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess SEXUAL HARASSMENT by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person.”
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 6-11-2020)
§ 37.22 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes himself
or herself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating his or her
position to the offending employee, and his or her immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassment
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief elected official of
the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality.
         (a)   The purpose of this policy is to establish prompt, thorough, and
effective procedures for responding to every report and incident so that
problems can be identified and remedied by the municipality.
         (b)   However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
also be filed within 300 days.
      (4)   Allegations.
         (a)   In addition to the methods of reporting included above, an
elected official may request an independent review of a complaint of sexual
harassment by another elected official. The request shall be made to the human
resources director, the city manager or administrator, or the chief elected
official of the municipality. The official receiving the request shall take
immediate action in keeping with the procurement process of the municipality to
retain a qualified individual or entity for the independent review of the
allegations of sexual harassment in violation of this policy. The outcome of
the independent review shall be reported to the corporate authorities.
         (b)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time, and the location), including, but
not limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos, and telephone
messages.
         (c)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted
and investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 6-11-2020)
§ 37.23 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee, or
municipal office shall take any retaliatory action against any municipal
employee or official due to a municipal employee’s or official’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   Providing information related to an investigation or testimony
before any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into
any violation of this policy; and/or
      (3)   Assistance with or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion, or transfer or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a municipal employee’s or official’s involvement in
protected activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against, even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, and this policy prohibits
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, agency, or other
employee that the employee reasonably believes is in violation of a law, rule,
or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, agency, or other employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the state officials and the Employees Ethics Act or this policy.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, before a legislative commission or committee, or in any
other proceeding where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation.
(740 ILCS 174/15(b))
   (F)   According to the State Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people, to conspire to
retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or
participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the State Human
Rights Act. An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC may file
a retaliation charge within 300 days of the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 6-11-2020)
§ 37.24 FALSE REPORTS.
   A FALSE REPORT is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser to
accomplish an outcome other than stopping sexual harassment or stopping
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to disciplinary action or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks, and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 6-11-2020)
EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE POLICY
§ 37.35 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The formal disciplinary process is a five step procedure, but
dismissal may occur at any step in the process.
   (B)   Superintendents or the Mayor may use the discipline form attached in §
37.44 for documentation purposes. Under normal circumstances, the steps are
outlined in the following sections.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.36 VERBAL REPRIMAND.
   A verbal reprimand informs an employee of unsatisfactory conduct, attitude,
or performance, and acknowledges that continued such actions will result in
more severe disciplinary actions. The reprimand should be done in private, and
should be documented with the date and nature of the problem and placed in the
employee’s personnel file.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.37 WRITTEN REPRIMAND.
   A written reprimand informs an employee of unsatisfactory conduct, attitude,
or performance. Written reprimand is more severe than a verbal reprimand, but
serves the same purpose to acknowledge further unsatisfactory conduct,
attitude, or performance will result in more severe disciplinary action. A copy
of the written reprimand will be sent to the employee, the Superintendent, the
Mayor, and the employee’s personnel file.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.38 PROBATION.
   The employee may be placed on probation by the Superintendent and/or the
Mayor if the employee’s performance is substandard and/or the employee’s
conduct and behavior are inappropriate and not condoned by management. The
employee may be placed on probation not to exceed six months. At the end of
three months, an informal evaluation of the employee’s performance will be
conducted. At the end of the probationary period, the employee’s performance
will be formally evaluated. Evaluations will determine if the employee should
be retained. If the employee violates the conditions of the probation, the
employee may be subject to termination. Removal from probationary status is
based upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, recommendation
from the employee’s immediate superintendent, and approval of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.39 ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
   An employee may be placed on administrative leave by the Mayor with or
without pay and benefits pending an investigation based on alleged violation of
the municipal policies and procedures. The administrative leave may be extended
for the period of time the investigation continues, but no longer than 30 days.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.40 SUSPENSION.
   Suspension of an employee would be at the discretion of the Superintendent
or the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board. The Mayor may
issue an interim suspension until a special meeting of the Village Board is
held or until the next regularly scheduled Village Board meeting. The
suspension will result in a loss of salary for the period of any period
suspension. Upon return to work, the suspended employee will be placed on
probationary status for a period not to exceed six months. If the employee
violates the conditions of the probation, the employee may be subject to
termination. Removal from probationary status is based upon satisfactory
completion of a probationary period and the approval of the Mayor and Village
Board. The period of suspension may be up to but not exceeding 30 days off
without pay in one calendar year. The suspension may include demotion, and is
within the discretion of the Superintendent or the Mayor and Village Board.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.41 DISMISSAL.
   (A)   Dismissal shall be at the discretion of the Mayor and with the advice
and consent of the Village Board. All employees are subject to discharge by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board during any of the
disciplinary steps.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.42 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   Disciplinary action may be brought against an employee for the following
including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Violating any provisions of this code;
   (B)   Knowingly falsifying a report;
   (C)   Being insubordinate to or showing disrespect towards superiors;
   (D)   Neglecting to perform the job or performing the job inefficiently;
   (E)   Engaging in any conduct unbecoming of a village employee or that
discredits the village;
   (F)   Leaving the assigned job without permission;
   (G)   Absence from work without leave or permission;
   (H)   Willfully destroying or damaging any property of the village;
   (I)   Taking or giving bribes;
   (J)   Being under the influence of intoxicating beverages while at work;
   (K)   Using, manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or possessing any
statutorily defined illegal drugs, narcotics, or controlled substances, or
failing to report to the employee’s Superintendent or Mayor any arrest or
conviction for using, manufacturing, distributing, dispensing, or possessing
any statutorily defined illegal drugs, narcotics, or controlled substance;
   (L)   Failure of any employee to notify his, her, or their Superintendent or
Mayor within five days after an arrest or conviction of a violation of any
local, state, or federal criminal drug statute;
   (M)   Using a village vehicle without the knowledge of the immediate
supervisor;
   (N)   Improperly operating a village vehicle or permitting an unauthorized
person to operate a village vehicle;
   (O)   Excessive unexcused absence from work or tardiness or using work time
for personal errands;
   (P)   Possession of explosives, firearms, or other dangerous weapons on
village premises, unless otherwise permitted;
   (Q)   Use of overtime for other than work purposes;
   (R)   Failure to follow any safety rules, regulations, or manuals;
   (S)   Gambling during working hours around village premises;
   (T)   Sleeping on the job;
   (U)   Being discourteous to the public;
   (V)   Engaging in or instigating or causing an interruption or impeding
work;
   (W)   Substantial misrepresentation of facts in obtaining employment with
the village;
   (X)   The use or consumption of village property for personal or private
purposes, or the use of village employees during working hours for such
purposes;
   (Y)   Disorderly conduct during working time or on village premises,
including fighting, interfering with work of another, or threatening or abusing
any person by word or act;
   (Z)   Unauthorized use of village property such as village owned vehicles,
equipment, and materials;
   (AA)   Abuse of sick leave by misrepresentation of the leave request;
   (BB)   Violation of a written order of a Superintendent or the Mayor;
   (CC)   Failure to pay legitimate debts, thus exposing the village to
harassment by creditors;
   (DD)   Using profanity on the job;
   (EE)   Releasing confidential information;
   (FF)   Using or attempting to use an official position to secure special
privileges, exemptions, or personal gain, except as may be otherwise provided
by law;
   (GG)   Engaging in disreputable acts and not conducting themselves with
“good moral character;”
   (HH)   Abuse of telephone usage;
   (II)   Theft of any village or employee property;
   (JJ)   Discriminating against any person, individual, entity, or co-employee
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, handicap or
disability, ancestry, marital status, sex harassment, or any other prohibited
form of discrimination under federal or state law or government contract or
grantee regulations;
   (KK)   Failure to perform essential functions of his or her position;
   (LL)   Abusing or the unauthorized use of village computer equipment;
   (MM)   Being charged or convicted with misdemeanor or felony unless
otherwise prohibited by law; and
   (NN)   Allowing drug and/or alcohol in or on machinery and/or vehicles.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.43 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   No form of discipline can occur because of any employee’s political activity
or political beliefs. This prohibition on discipline does not apply to
individuals in policy making or confidential positions or where an overriding
interest or vital importance exists which requires that an employee’s political
beliefs and activities conform to those of the Superintendent or the Corporate
Authorities.
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.44 EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE FORM.
   The following form shall be used by the village when an employee of the
village receives disciplinary action.
   EMPLOYEE CODE: DISCIPLINE FORM
 
Date _________________________________________________________________________
Employee Name
___________________________________________________________________
Employee’s Job Position
_____________________________________________________________
Village Department
_________________________________________________________________
Superintendent
____________________________________________________________________
Type of Discipline (Check One):
_______ Verbal Reprimand
_______ Written Reprimand
_______ Probation
_______ Suspension
_______ Dismissal
State the Section of the Employee Code violated:
Section________ Subsection_________ Page Number ________
State any Code of Conduct violation, listing the Code of Conduct Subparagraph
Number
_________________________________________________________________________
State the facts which support the violation
_______________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________
Date __________            ____________________________________________
            Superintendent
Date __________            ____________________________________________
            (Signature of Employee)
 
(Ord. 2017-12, passed 9-11-2017)
WORKPLACE VIOLENCE PROTECTION POLICY
§ 37.55 TITLE, PURPOSE, DECLARATION.
   (A)   The following provisions shall be known as the “Workplace Violence
Prevention Policy of the Village of Livingston” (hereinafter referred to as
“the Village”) or “this subchapter.”
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village and the purpose
of this subchapter to reaffirm the principle that village employees have a
right to be free from workplace violence by any other employee. The village is
committed to preventing workplace violence and to maintaining a safe work
environment.
   (C)   The village recognizes that workplace violence creates potential harm
to individual employees, to the person complained of, and to the overall
employment climate within the village.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of each individual employee to refrain from
workplace violence, and it is the right of each individual employee to work in
an environment free from workplace violence.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.56 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   WORKPLACE VIOLENCE. Any act or threat of physical violence, harassment,
intimidation, or other threatening any disruptive behavior that occurs at the
worksite or off-site during work related activities. All full- and part-time,
active employees are covered by this policy. Employees are prohibited from
making threats or engaging in violent activities.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.57 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The village will not tolerate any type of workplace violence committed by or
against employees and has a zero-tolerance policy. All employees shall refrain
from fighting, “horseplay,” or other conduct that may be dangerous to others.
Conduct that threatens, intimidates, or coerces another employee will not be
tolerated. The resources of the village shall not be used to threaten, stalk,
or harass anyone at or outside the workplace. The following list of behaviors,
while not exhaustive, provides examples of conduct that is prohibited:
   (A)   Causing physical injury to another person;
   (B)   Making threatening remarks, directly or indirectly;
   (C)   Acting out in an aggressive or hostile manner that creates a
reasonable fear of injury to another person or subjects another individual to
emotional distress;
   (D)   Intentionally damaging employer property or property of another
employee;
   (E)   Possessing, brandishing, or using an explosive, munitions, a weapon,
or other similar device while on village property or while engaging in
employment related activities off-site;
   (F)   Committing acts motivated by, or related to, sexual harassment or
domestic violence;
   (G)   Discussing dangerous weapons and/or bringing such weapons into the
workplace;
   (H)   Displaying overt signs of hostility or anger;
   (I)   Stalking;
   (J)   Violent or threatening physical conduct including, but not limited to,
fights, pushing, and physical intimidation; or
   (K)   Threatening, abusive, or harassing telephone calls, text messages,
written correspondence, email, or other communication.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.58 REPORTING WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.
   (A)   Responsibility and procedure.
      (1)   The employee should immediately contact the police or 911 if any
safety concerns arise or if confronted with a potentially violent situation.
Employees shall not place themselves in peril, nor should they attempt to
intercede during any specific incident. Employees who confront or encounter an
armed or dangerous person should not attempt to challenge or disarm the
individual.
      (2)   Once the threat has abated, employees should promptly inform the
Village President of any indirect or direct threats of violence, incidents of
actual violence, and suspicious activities. When reporting a threat or incident
of violence, the employee shall be a specific and as detailed as possible
including the identification of any witnesses. The employee shall promptly
report to the Village President any order of protection, injunction, or
restraining order they have obtained that lists the workplace as a protected
area.
   (B)   Investigation. The village will promptly and thoroughly investigate
all reports of threat of violence or incident of actual violence and a report
of suspicious activities. The investigation will include interviewing the
complainant and respondent to ascertain all of the facts and circumstances
relevant to the complaint, including dates and locations, interviewing
witnesses, if any, reviewing any related documentation, and making detailed
notes of the investigation. To maintain workplace safety and the integrity of
the investigation, the Village President may immediately suspend employees
suspected of workplace violence or threats of violence, either with or without
pay, pending investigation. After due investigation, anyone found to be
responsible for threats of or actual violence or other conduct that is in
violation of this policy shall be subject to prompt disciplinary action up to
and including termination of employment.
   (C)   Corrective action. Upon completion of the investigation, the Village
President, and with the advice and consent of the Village Board, will determine
what action should be taken as a result of the investigation including, but not
limited to, any corrective measures to be taken. If there is not enough
evidence to substantiate the complaint, corrective measures will not be taken.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.59 RETALIATION; FALSE, FRIVOLOUS COMPLAINTS.
   The village will not retaliate against employees making good faith reports
of violence, threats, or suspicious activities regardless of the outcome of the
investigation. The village will, however, discipline or terminate anyone who
brings forward a false or malicious complaint. Every employee is required to
cooperate with all aspects of any investigation. An employee who initiates,
participates, or is involved in retaliation or obstructs an investigation into
a threat is subject to discipline, up to and including termination.
(Ord. 2017-11, passed 9-11-2017)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be
applicable pursuant to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures,
employee handbooks, and/or collective bargaining agreements, any person who
violates §§
37.20 through
37.24 or the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65 may
be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable disciplinary
actions, or discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and
penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, state law, or federal law.
Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report, as
defined in §
37.24, alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act, being 5 ILCS 430/1 et seq. to an ethics commission, an
inspector general, the State Police, a state’s Attorney, the Attorney General,
or any other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An
ethics commission may levy an administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any
person who intentionally makes a false, frivolous, or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 6-11-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
      
52.   SEWERS, WASTEWATER
      
53.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Application for taps, service connections
   
50.02   All service to be by meter
   
50.03   Inspection
   
50.04   Meter damaged
   
50.05   Damage due to interruption of service; liability
   
50.06   Resale
   
50.07   Discontinuance of service; dangerous usage
   
50.08   Electric ground wires
   
50.09   Water for building or construction purposes
   
50.10   Fire hydrants
   
50.11   Lawn watering
   
50.12   Shortage, purity of supply
   
50.13   Non-compliance with rules, regulations
   
50.14   Easements
   
50.15   Use of water on consumer’s premises
   
50.16   Rules to become part of contract
   
50.17   Application for water system service connection
Extension of Mains
   
50.30   Determination of who pays expense of extension
   
50.31   Contractor installs extension
Water Rates
   
50.45   Meter and tap-on fee
   
50.46   Repairs, replacement of meters
   
50.47   Repair, replacement of meter vaults
   
50.48   Installing, maintaining service lines
   
50.49   Removal of meters
   
50.50   Village not liable for interruption of supply
   
50.51   Water rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 APPLICATION FOR TAPS, SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   An applicant desiring a water tap or service connection with the waterworks
system of the village shall file a written application at the Village Hall,
signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is
desired, or by the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall
be accompanied by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the cost
of such service connection. In the event the application is made by an agent
for the owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written
authority of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-1)
Cross-connection:
   Fees, see §§
50.45 through
50.51
§ 50.02 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial, or industrial use,
shall be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the
same accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing, and so as
to be free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building shall be set
in a suitable meter box approved by the Water Committee. Water shall not be
turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all other
requirements of this chapter on the part of the property owner have been fully
complied with.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 50.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access to premises.
      (1)   The village shall have access to all portions of the premises of
the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of water and the
consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing, and any other apparatus in any manner
connected to the waterworks system of the village.
      (2)   The village shall have the right and option to demand change or
stopping of use or to require any repair, change, removal, or improvement of
any pipe, fixture, plumbing, or other apparatus that would in any manner affect
the water supply or system of the village or the supply or fixtures of other
consumers.
   (B)   Meters to be open to inspection. All water meters and water fixtures,
connections, and appurtenances on private property connected with the
waterworks system of the village shall be open to the inspection of the proper
officers and employees of the village at all reasonable hours.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-3)
§ 50.04 METER DAMAGED.
   Whenever a meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being forced
back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus, or for any
other cause within control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the village
for the actual cost of the removal, repair, and replacement of the damaged
meter and all previous water bills shall be corrected on an estimated basis to
cover such period as it appears that the meter was out of order for such
damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-4)
§ 50.05 DAMAGE DUE TO INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; LIABILITY.
   All connections for the water services applied for hereunder and all
connections now attached to the present village waterworks system and all use
or service of the system shall be upon the express condition that the village
will not be liable for nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or
injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, service pipe, apparatus,
or appurtenance connected with the waterworks system or for any interruption of
the supply of water by reason of the breaking of machinery or by reason or
stoppages, alterations, or renewals.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-5)
§ 50.06 RESALE.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient or consumer thereof
from the village supply to any premises other than that for which application
has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The village shall have the right to refuse water service or to discontinue
water service, without notice, at any time to any consumer if the village finds
any apparatus or appliances, the operation of which will be detrimental to the
water system of the village or to any or all of its consumers. Standpipes,
hydrants, gate valves, and any other apparatus that cause water hammer or any
danger to the water system or other customer’s plumbing shall be immediately
repaired or removed upon notice from the village or, at its option, the village
may immediately discontinue service without notice and without any liability
for direct or resulting damages therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-7)
§ 50.08 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   (A)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water
service pipe, water meter, or water main belonging to the village.
   (B)   The village shall hold the owner of the premises responsible and
liable for any damage to the property or injury to the employees of the village
caused by such ground wire. Any and all owners and consumers shall remove any
existing ground wires immediately upon written notice from the village. If not
so disconnected five days after notice, the village, through its officials, may
enter the property and remove such ground wires and the consumer shall pay all
costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-8)
§ 50.09 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Applicants desiring to use water from the village waterworks system
for building or construction purposes shall make application therefor to the
Superintendent on a form provided by the Water and Sewer Department for that
purpose.
   (B)   Upon a permit being granted, the service pipe shall be carried at the
expense of the applicant to the inside of the curb line where a service cock
and meter shall be placed with pipe leading to the surface and a faucet placed
at the end thereof above the surface. When the building or construction is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off unless
permanent connection is made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Charge for the use and connection of the meter shall be prescribed by the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-9) (Ord. 223, passed - -)
§ 50.10 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All public fire hydrants with gate valves, tees, and connections from
the main inside the village limits shall be owned, maintained, and used only by
the village and shall be solely responsible for same. Use of water from fire
hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon permission by the village
and after approved application to the village.
   (B)   The village shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside of the
village limits or the pressure or amount of water obtainable therefrom or any
damage either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure, or amount
of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants located outside the village limits owned by
the village shall be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible, but
the village will not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for
their condition or use or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only
for the purpose of extinguishing fires except when the village may issue a
special permit for their use to contractors who shall then be responsible for
the hydrants and the use of water from them.
   (D)   Thirty dollars per hydrant per year from the Fire District.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-10) (Ord. 223, passed - -)
§ 50.11 LAWN WATERING.
   The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hoses for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the village, public
exigencies require it.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-11) (Ord. 223, passed - -)
§ 50.12 SHORTAGE, PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The village shall not be held responsible for or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer, or public body for any claim or damage, either
direct or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shutoff of
water for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or
village’s mains, pipes, and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in the water
supply, or any fire or water damage.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-12)
§ 50.13 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES, REGULATIONS.
   (A)   If any consumer fails to comply with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the village shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the
consumer does not remedy the same as the rules provide and within a reasonable
time, the village shall have the right to discontinue service.
   (B)   Except in case of non-payment, emergency, necessity, or as otherwise
provided, the village will not discontinue service for violation of any rule
until five days after notice has been given and the violation has not been
remedied.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-13)
§ 50.14 EASEMENTS.
   The consumer shall give such easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the
village and allow access for the purpose of construction, repair, maintenance,
meter reading, relocation, or expansion of the water system. The necessity
shall be determined by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-14)
§ 50.15 USE OF WATER ON CONSUMER’S PREMISES.
   The village shall reserve the right to use the water from the consumer’s
facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge shall be made by the
consumer for the use of the facilities and no charge shall be made by the
village for the water used by the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-15)
§ 50.16 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
water system and the consumption of water shall be adopted and the same shall
become part of the contract with every water consumer and every water consumer
shall be considered to take water from the village, subject thereto and bound
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-16)
§ 50.17 APPLICATION FOR WATER SYSTEM SERVICE CONNECTION.
   APPLICATION FOR WATER SYSTEM SERVICE CONNECTION
   The undersigned, representing himself as owner of the property located at
______________________________ hereby makes application for connection to the Water
System of the Village for said property, and in consideration of the furnishing of
said service covenants and agree as follows:
   1.   I agree to abide by all rules and regulations as specified in and by the
ordinances of the Village now in effect or enacted and passed from time to time
providing for the regulation of service furnished by the Village, it is further
acknowledged and agreed that the undersigned his heirs, executors, administrators,
successors, and assigns shall pay all charges for connection fees and water usage
which shall become due as the result of the connecting of the water mains and the
furnishing of water service to the above property, and that all such charges and fees
for water service rendered to the property, together with penalties, if any, and the
costs of collection are to be considered and become a charge against the property, in
lieu so created to be enforced in accordance with the ordinances of the Village.
   2.   All bills for the aforesaid charges are payable on or before the due date
following the receipt of said bill and if not paid, are subject to a ten percent
(10%) penalty.
   3.   Each and all of the agreements and covenants herein contained shall run with
the real estate above described whose present owner is signatory to this application.
   4.   I understand that after making this application, I am to await installation
permit and instructions therewith.
   5.   SERVICE CONNECTION FEE: $ ________ is enclosed herewith payable to the
Village.
   6.   Permission is hereby granted to the Village and its authorized
representatives at any reasonable time to enter the premises of the applicant and any
portion thereof for the purposes of inspecting all collections appurtenant to the
Water System.
   CONNECTION MUST BE INSPECTED BEFORE BACKFILLING:
SIGNATURE: ____________________________________________________________________
                                    ______________________________________________
(STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
                                    ______________________________________________
   (VILLAGE, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
                                    ______________________________________________
                                    (TELEPHONE NUMBER)         (DATE)
                  (
         MAIL BILLS TO:    (____________________________________
Do not fill in the spaces to the right   (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
if the information is the same as the (
applicant above.             (________________________________________
                  (VILLAGE, STATE AND NAME OF STREET)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 50.30 DETERMINATION OF WHO PAYS EXPENSE OF EXTENSION.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall first determine if an extension of the
water main is economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the
extension and the number of existing potential users that will use water along
the extension. If the extension is economically feasible, then the village may
install and pay the cost of the extension at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   If the village elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main,
then the person or persons desiring water service shall install the extension
at his, her, or their own personal expense upon written consent by the Board of
Trustees. The village shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area
such as a subdivision being developed unless there are sufficient existing
residents or businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-50)
§ 50.31 CONTRACTOR INSTALLS EXTENSION.
   (A)   The village shall approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
   (B)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
shall be reviewed and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title shall be conveyed to the village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. The village will
maintain the mains after they have been inspected and approved by the municipal
engineer.
   (D)   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the Board of
Trustees, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
   (E)   All legal and engineering fees associated with the extension and
charged to the village shall be paid by the developer, unless otherwise
provided.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-51)
WATER RATES
§ 50.45 METER AND TAP-ON FEE.
   Applicants for a five-eighths inch or three-fourths inch water service shall
pay a charge of $600 for each connection or the tap-on to the water mains of
the village for properties not now connected or tapped-on to the water mains,
whether presently constructed or to be constructed. All such connections shall
be made in such a manner as the Superintendent may direct through its duly
authorized employees. For meters larger than three-fourths inch, the tap-on fee
will be the actual cost of installing the meter and appurtenances which shall
include, but not be limited to, labor and materials. All outside connections
shall be $600 plus the cost of labor and materials.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-10) (Ord. 2009-2, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 50.46 REPAIRS, REPLACEMENT OF METERS.
   (A)   All water meters now installed or hereinafter installed shall be the
responsibility of the village to maintain and/or replace when those meters are
found to be improperly functioning at no additional cost to the homeowner.
   (B)   The homeowner shall notify the village of any meter improperly
functioning. The Superintendent shall shut off the water to allow repairs to be
made whenever notice is given that such repairs are contemplated. At no time
shall a homeowner cover or otherwise deny access, permanently or temporarily,
to the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-11) (Ord. 1998-8, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 50.47 REPAIR, REPLACEMENT OF METER VAULTS.
   Repair and replacement of all meter vaults shall be the responsibility of
the property owner. The owner shall have 15 days to repair/replace defective
pits upon written notification by the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-12) (Ord. 1998-8, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 50.48 INSTALLING, MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of
service lines between the meter and the water main. All such installations
shall be made a licensed plumber as defined by the State Plumbing License Act,
225 ILCS 320/1, and shall be installed at the expense of the applicant in such
a manner as the Superintendent may direct through its duly authorized employees
and under the supervision of the Superintendent or such person as designated by
the Superintendent. Applicants are required to arrange date and time for the
installation at least 48 hours in advance of the installation with the
Superintendent. Service lines shall not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Such service lines must be at least three-fourths inch in diameter,
and must be installed at a minimum depth of three feet. Service lines between
the water mains shall have a minimum working pressure rating of 160 psi at
73.4°F and shall be constructed of Copper (Type K). The user shall not connect
any service line or any plumbing connected with the service line to any other
water source. The service line shall meet all requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency’s rules and regulations, the State Plumbing
Code, and the regulations in this chapter.
   (C)   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of
service lines between meter and the residence or business. All such
installations shall be made by a licensed plumber as defined by the State
Plumbing License Act, 225 ILCS 320/1, and shall be installed at the expense of
the applicant. The Superintendent shall supervise the installations to the
meter itself and the connection shall not be covered until it has been
inspected by the Superintendent. Such service lines must be at least three-
fourths inch in diameter, and shall be installed at a minimum depth of three
feet. Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating of 160 psi at
73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the following types of materials:
Copper (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene, or polybutylene.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-13) (Ord. 1998-8, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 50.49 REMOVAL OF METERS.
   (A)   All meters shall remain the property of the village and may be removed
from the applicant’s premises at any time without notice for the purpose of
testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance of service.
   (B)   Upon discovery of any unlawful act by any customer, his or her agent,
or employee herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other rules
and regulations of the Department, such service shall be disconnected.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-14) (Ord. 1998-8, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 50.50 VILLAGE NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall have the right to shut off the supply of water
whenever it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules, or for
any notice as circumstances allow, and will be given to consumers, but in
emergencies the water may be shut off without notice.
      (2)   All hot water faucets shall be left open during any shut-off to
prevent damage to plumbing. Such necessary work will be done as rapidly as may
be practical and whenever feasible at such times as will cause the least
inconvenience. The village shall not be held responsible for or liable because
of any shut-off of supply for any direct or resultant damages to any person,
company, or consumer or to any pipe, fixtures, or plumbing.
   (B)   (1)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants, or other
industrial use shall not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but
only to tanks holding ample reserve supply.
      (2)   Should an equipment be supplied direct from mains, then in case of
any shut-off of water, the village will not be held responsible or liable for
any direct or resulting damage because of interrupted supply, insufficient
pressure, or otherwise.
   (C)   Whenever water mains, pipes, and service connections are taken up,
shut-off, or interfered with by reason of any village street improvements, the
village will endeavor to maintain service so far as reasonably possible, but
will not be directly or indirectly liable for any interruption, poor pressure,
or damage of any kind either to consumers adjacent or to other consumers
affected thereby.
   (D)   The village expressly stipulates with all its consumers and other
persons that it will not insure or be responsible or liable in any manner for
any losses or damages, direct or resultant, by reason of any fire, and all
water service furnished shall always be conditional upon acts of God,
inevitable accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war, or any other cause not within
the reasonable control of the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-15) (Ord. 1998-8, passed 10-12-1998)
§ 50.51 WATER RATES.
   There shall be established the following rates and charges for the use of
the water and sewer system of the village, based upon the amount of water
consumed as follows:
   (A)   Water users inside village limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons per month $10 minimum per month
Next 4,000 gallons per month  $5.55 per 1,000 gallons
Next 5,000 gallons per month  $4.85 per 1,000 gallons
Each 1,000 over 10,001        $4.50 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Water users outside village limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons per month $ __ minimum per month
Next 5,000 gallons per month  $ __ per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons per month $ __ per 1,000 gallons
Next 16,000 over 10,001       $ __ per 1,000 gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 38-4-16) (Ord. 2010-6, passed 6-17-2010)
CHAPTER 51: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
Administration
   
51.01   Approved backflow device
   
51.02   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
51.03   Investigations by Superintendent
   
51.04   Right to enter premises
   
51.05   Notice to customers; reconnect fee
   
51.06   Contaminations cost and consumer
Control Code
   
51.20   Purpose
   
51.21   Application
   
51.22   Responsibility of owner
   
51.23   Definitions
   
51.24   Water system
   
51.25   Cross-connection prohibited
   
51.26   Survey and investigations
   
51.27   Where protection is required
   
51.28   Type of protection required
   
51.29   Backflow prevention devices
   
51.30   Inspection and maintenance
   
51.31   Booster pumps
   
51.32   Violations
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.01 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in accordance
with the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If, in accordance with the
State Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice to the water customer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his
or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner in accordance with the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental
Protection Agency, and all applicable local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as
required by the State Plumbing Code, State Environmental Protection Agency, and
local regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-19)
§ 51.02 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established, or maintain or permit
to be maintained, any connection whereby a private, auxiliary, or emergency
water supply, other than the regular public water supply, enters the supply or
distribution system of the village, unless such private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Superintendent and the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 INVESTIGATIONS BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of commercial industrial and other properties served
by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to
the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be
made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two years
or as often as the Superintendent shall deem necessary. Records or such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five
years.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-21)
§ 51.04 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections, and that the Superintendent or his or
her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection inspection. On demand, the owner,
lessee, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Superintendent any information which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent,
be evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-22)
§ 51.05 NOTICE TO CUSTOMERS; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she
may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and until a reconnection fee of not more than $100
is paid to the Village Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when
the Superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of
the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection.
      (2)   Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected
to prevent actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water
supply, provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent or the
State Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
   (C)   The Superintendent or the agents or assigns shall not be liable to any
customer for any injury, damages, or lost revenues which may result from
termination of the customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this
chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-23)
§ 51.06 CONTAMINATIONS COST AND CONSUMER.
   The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-24) (Ord. 91-7, passed 12-9-1991)
CONTROL CODE
§ 51.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or the consumer’s potable water system
and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or systems
containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-31)
§ 51.21 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-32)
§ 51.22 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-siphonage
of contaminants through the customers water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent of Water or his or her authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent shall give notice
to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at each
service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install such
approved device or devices at his or her own expense; failure, refusal, or
inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or devices
immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such device or devices have been installed. The consumer shall
retain records of installation, maintenance, testing, and repair as required in
§
51.26(D) below for a period of at least five years. The Superintendent of Water
may require the consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the
village to assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be
required. All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a Cross-
Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-33)
§ 51.23 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The State Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute, or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system, or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated, or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
than the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY shall be suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each
check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word SEVERE, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances, and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the State Plumbing Code,
77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal use, or culinary
use as determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to, within, and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work, or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
collection, tapered spout, or other collection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically or
biologically, or otherwise, contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks, and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use, and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve
at least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either
a “community water supply” or a “non-community water supply.”
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closed shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system, and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-34)
§ 51.24 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up to the
point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-35)
§ 51.25 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-36)
§ 51.26 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer’s premises, and
testing, repair, and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer’s premises.
   (B)   On request of the Superintendent, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping
system or systems or water use within the customer’s premises. The consumer’s
premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the Superintendent of Water
for the verification of information submitted by the inspection consumer to the
public water supply custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3(1).
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed, or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed, for control of backflow and backsiphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions;
      (3)   (a)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the
time of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency
as a Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI).
         (b)   The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical
testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (4)   Testing and records procedures shall consist of:
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer;
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with 415 ILCS 5/4
(e);
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs; and
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Service performed and date completed.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-37)
§ 51.27 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 35 Ill. Adm. Code
681, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the
Superintendent, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system
exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or system containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Superintendent of Water;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Superintendent of Water and/or the Cross-Connection Control Device
Inspector, are not correctable or have intricate plumbing arrangements which
make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; and
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history or cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code
890, and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an
approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to
a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited to, the
following types of facilities unless the Superintendent of Water determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations, or stormwater
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverages processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-38)
§ 51.28 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
51.27 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
51.27 shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention connected to the public water
supply.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant, or
other chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-39)
§ 51.29 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specification.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. The manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-40)
§ 51.30 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance, and repair made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in the manufacturer’s instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by-
passed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approval number of the person performing the test or
visual inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) above.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-41)
§ 51.31 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the
Superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-42)
§ 51.32 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Water shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, maintained, and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
Superintendent of Water, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device
has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on
the premises, or if a low pressure cut-off required by these regulations is not
installed and maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water,
and the required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects on conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
   (D)   Neither the village, the Superintendent, or its agents or assigns
shall be liable to any customers of the village for any injury, damages, or
lost revenues which may result from termination.
(Prior Code, § 38-3-43)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS, WASTEWATER
Section
Sewer Systems
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Deposit of wastes
   
52.003   Polluting waters
   
52.004   Private disposal facilities
   
52.005   Discontinuance of private disposal system
   
52.006   Sewer rates
   
52.007   Unauthorized damage
Private Sewage Disposal
   
52.020   Private system regulations
   
52.021   Private sewer system permit
   
52.022   Inspection
   
52.023   Requirements for system
   
52.024   Maintenance of private system
   
52.025   Additional requirements
   
52.026   Availability of public connection
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.040   Permit required
   
52.041   Unlawful discharges
   
52.042   Application for permit
   
52.043   Capacity of sewer
   
52.044   Cost of installation
   
52.045   Independent building sewer required
   
52.046   Old building sewers
   
52.047   Size and alignment
   
52.048   Elevation
   
52.049   Downspouts prohibited
   
52.050   Building sewer; plumbing code
   
52.051   Notification for inspection
   
52.052   Barricades at excavations
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.065   Discharge of stormwater
   
52.066   Stormwater discharge
   
52.067   Prohibited discharges to sewers
   
52.068   Industrial discharges
   
52.069   Specific substances prohibited
   
52.070   Approval of prohibited wastes
   
52.071   Grease, oil interceptors
   
52.072   Facility maintenance
   
52.073   Industrial wastes control manhole
   
52.074   Laboratory analyses
   
52.075   Testing requirements
   
52.076   Special arrangements
Powers and Authority of Inspections
   
52.090   Inspection, testing
   
52.091   Observation of safety rules
   
52.092   Private property inspections
Extension of Mains
   
52.105   Determination of who pays expenses of extension
   
52.106   Requirements if extension is installed by someone other than village
Wastewater Service Charges
   
52.120   Service charges
   
52.121   Measurement of flow
   
52.122   Debt service charge
   
52.123   Basic user rate
   
52.124   Surcharge rate
   
52.125   Computation of surcharge
   
52.126   Computation of wastewater service charge
Forms, Applications, Tables
   
52.140   Objectionable material effluent limits
   
52.141   Private waste disposal application
   
52.142   Residential, commercial building sewer application
   
52.143   Industrial sewer connection application
   
52.144   Application for sanitary sewer service connection
   
52.145   Certificate of inspection, approval, permit
 
   
52.999   Penalty
SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 52.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   GOVERNMENT, FEDERAL.
      (1)   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.
      (2)   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 466 et seq.)
as amended (Pub. Act 95-217).
      (3)   FEDERAL GRANT. The U.S. government participation in the financing
of the construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II, Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
      (4)   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements
issued by the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after
enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to
regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to § 402 of the Federal Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   GOVERNMENT, STATE.
      (1)   DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Environmental Protection
Agency.
      (2)   STATE ACT. The State Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being 30 ILCS
405/1 et seq.
      (3)   STATE GRANT. The state’s participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the State Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of the State.
   GOVERNMENT, LOCAL.
      (1)   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Village of Livingston, Illinois.
      (2)   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal, or private cooperation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters)
outside the inner face of the building wall.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (3)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface, and groundwater drainage.
      (4)   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by other.
      (5)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of
the village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary sewer or combined sewer system, even though those sewers may
not have been constructed with village funds.
      (6)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or
a combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      (7)   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste
liquids, including storms, surface, and groundwater drainage.
      (8)   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation, and pumping of sewage.
      (9)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm, surface, and groundwater
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
      (10)   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The portion of the precipitation that is
drained into the sewers.
   TREATMENT.
      (1)   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and
structures for treating, wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes
used as synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, or
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   TYPES OF CHARGES.
      (1)   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the
public sewer system.
      (2)   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, and the like
outstanding, and shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the
number of users connected to the wastewater facilities.
      (3)   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
includes REPLACEMENT.
      (4)   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      (5)   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and
debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater
in strength than average concentration values as established by code.
      (6)   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection
system and/or treatment works will be operated.
      (7)   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the
cost operation and maintenance.
      (8)   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per quarter or month levied
on all users of the wastewater facilities. The SERVICE CHARGE shall be computed
as outlined in this subchapter and shall consist of the total or the basic user
charge, the debt service charge, and a surcharge, if applicable.
   USER TYPES.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transit lodging, retail, and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise, or rendering services.
      (2)   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which
industrial wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an
interior drop. The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the
village representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Establishments engaged in manufacturing activities
involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance
into products.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Schools, hospitals, churches,
penal institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local
government.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multiple-family dwellings.
      (6)   USER CLASS. The type of user either residential, institutional/
governmental, commercial, or industrial as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. the structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS.
      (1)   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
or other body of surface or groundwater.
      (2)   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS.
      (1)   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      (2)   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
      (3)   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat
if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the
collection system.
      (4)   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance
discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business establishment or process or from the development,
recovery, or processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary
sewage.
      (6)   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly
owned treatment works that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(a); or
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with
the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works
receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon
the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
      (7)   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water
or wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in 1,000
milliliter of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
      (8)   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the EPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      (9)   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of
industrial or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION
EQUIVALENT is 100 gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and
0.21 pounds of suspended solids.
      (10)   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
      (11)   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
      (12)   SEWAGE. Used interchangeably with WASTEWATER.
      (13)   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which,
in concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for
any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average
24-hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      (14)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in, water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the
EPA Division of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
      (15)   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      (16)   WASTEWATER.
         (a)   The spent water of a community.
         (b)   May be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
      (17)   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution
regulations of the state.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-1) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.002 DEPOSIT OF WASTES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-5) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003 POLLUTING WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in an area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-6) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.004 PRIVATE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (2)   This exception does not include or limit the use of portable
toilets by civic organizations for use during public activities.
      (3)   When portable toilets are used, they shall not be used by any one
organization for more than a 90-day period. Portable toilets shall not be
placed within 150 feet of any houses or buildings.
   (B)   (1)   Portable toilets shall be emptied, cleaned, and sanitized a
minimum of once a week or sooner, if required.
      (2)   Any organization which allows such toilets to become unsanitary or
a nuisance shall be subject to the penalties as stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-7) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.005 DISCONTINUANCE OF PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The owner of all the houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined)
sewer of the village is hereby required at his or her expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
within 90 days after date of official notice to do so.
   (B)   Provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of
the nearest property line.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-8) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.006 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Sewer users inside village limits.
 
First 2,000 gallons per month $15 minimum per month
Over 2,000 gallons per month  $1.87 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Sewer users, no water. The rate for sewer users shall be $15 flat rate
per month.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-16) (Ord. 2010-6, passed 6-17-2010)
§ 52.007 UNAUTHORIZED DAMAGE.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-50) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 52.020 PRIVATE SYSTEM REGULATIONS.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.005, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-10) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.021 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM PERMIT.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the Superintendent, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee of $15 shall be paid to the village at the
time the application is filed. (Prior Code, § 38-5-11) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-
1989)
§ 52.022 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County
Inspector.
   (B)   He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (C)   The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of written
notice by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-12) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.023 REQUIREMENTS FOR SYSTEM.
   (A)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, being 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq. and with
the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 7,500 square feet (677 square meters).
   (C)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-13) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SYSTEM.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-14) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.025 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Health
Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-15) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.026 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC CONNECTION.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.005, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to the public sewer
within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of
sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-16) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   All references to “by the Village” shall mean the Superintendent if
there is one.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-18) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.041 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and more stringent state and local
standards.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-19) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.042 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits as follows:
      (1)   Residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   Service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make applications
on a special form furnished by the village.
   (C)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $325 shall be paid to the
Superintendent for single-family, commercial, institutional/governmental, or
industrial building to be located inside the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-20) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989; Ord. 90-5, passed 8-13-
1990)
§ 52.043 CAPACITY OF SEWER.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-21) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.044 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   (A)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
   (B)   The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-22) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.045 INDEPENDENT BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-23) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.046 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the village, to be of similar
material and construction to that required of new sewers.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-24) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.047 SIZE AND ALIGNMENT.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in the state shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-25) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.048 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
52.042 and discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-26) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.049 DOWNSPOUTS PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-27) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.050 BUILDING SEWER; PLUMBING CODE.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution
Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for
Water and Sewer Main Construction in the state. All such connections shall be
made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the village before installation.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-28) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.051 NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer,
and the village shall make an inspection within 24 hours. The connection shall
be made under the supervision of the village or Superintendent, or his or her
representative.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-29) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.052 BARRICADES AT EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-30) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.065 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-35) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.066 STORMWATER DISCHARGE.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the village. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters
may be discharged on approval of the village to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-36) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.067 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0, or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-37) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.068 INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGES.
   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
village has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
   (A)   Meets the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(B) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284 and applicable
federal regulations; and
   (B)   Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the village by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency or by the state for construction of any part of the sewer system or
sewage treatment works of the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-38) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.069 SPECIFIC SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the village that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment
process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. In
forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the village
will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials, or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the village for such materials;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste odor-producing
substances in such concentration exceeding limits which may be established by
the village as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the
requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction
for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   (I)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at
any time except as permitted by the village in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
   (J)   Any cyanide in excess of 2.0 mg/l at any time except as permitted by
the village in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
   (K)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and
sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
   (L)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-39) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070 APPROVAL OF PROHIBITED WASTES.
   (A) If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
52.069 and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided
in 40 C.F.R. part 403, June 26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which in
the judgment of the village may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the village may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates for discharge; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
52.075.
   (B)   (1)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, articles, and laws.
      (2)   The owner of the pretreatment or equalization facilities shall
obtain construction and operating permits from the State Environmental
Protection Agency prior to the issuance of final approval by the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-40) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.071 GREASE, OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the village, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the village, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-41) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.072 FACILITY MAINTENANCE.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-42) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.073 INDUSTRIAL WASTES CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the village, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessible and safety located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the village. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-43) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.074 LABORATORY ANALYSES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this code and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than once per
year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-44) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.075 TESTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this code shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole.
   (B)   In the event that no special manhole has been required the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (C)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily-accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon. the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
   (D)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken.
   (E)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-45) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.076 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with the subchapter hereof by the industrial concern, provided such
payments are in accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge
system and industrial cost recovery system.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-46) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTIONS
§ 52.090 INSPECTION, TESTING.
   (A)   The village, and other duly authorized employees of the village, the
State Environmental Protection Agency, and the United States Environmental
Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The village or Superintendent, or his or her representative, shall
have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or
waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-52) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.091 OBSERVATION OF SAFETY RULES.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.090, the village or duly authorized employees of the village, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, and the United States Environmental Protection
Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain conditions as required in §
52.073.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-53) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.092 PRIVATE PROPERTY INSPECTIONS.
   The village and other duly authorized employees of the village bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, and shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-54) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 52.105 DETERMINATION OF WHO PAYS EXPENSES OF EXTENSION.
   The Village Board shall first determine if an extension of a sewer main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will be served by the extension. If the
extension is economically feasible, then the village may install and pay the
cost of the extension at the discretion of the Village Board. If the village
elects not to pay the cost of extending the sewer main, then the person or
persons desiring sewer service shall install the extension at his, her, or
their own personal expense upon written consent by the Village Board. The
village shall not pay for any extension to an undeveloped area such as a
subdivision being developed unless there are sufficient existing residents or
businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-56) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 52.106 REQUIREMENTS IF EXTENSION IS INSTALLED BY SOMEONE OTHER THAN VILLAGE.
   (A)   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
   (B)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications must
be reviewed and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title must be conveyed to the village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. The village will
maintain the mains thereafter.
   (D)   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the Village
Board, the system does not have necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-57) (Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 52.120 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The wastewater service charges for the use of and for service supplied
by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge,
and a surcharge, if applicable.
   (B)   The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual debt
service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users. Through further
divisions, the monthly and quarterly debt service charges can be computed.
   (C)   (1)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
         (a)   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 204 mg/l;
and
         (b)   A suspended solids (SS) content of 240 mg/l.
      (2)   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         (a)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund and a sewer
system reserve fund for the year for all works categories;
         (b)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids, and BOD, if possible;
         (c)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of suspended solids, and
pounds of BOD to be treated;
         (d)   Proportion the estimated costs to non-industrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids, and BOD;
         (e)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
         (f)   Compute surcharge costs per pound per 1,000 gallons per mg/l in
excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   (D)   (1)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal concentration for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge shall
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the 250 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS respectively.
Section 52.125 specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
      (2)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the village in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs,
including replacement costs.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-21)
§ 52.121 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
1,000 gallons.
   (A)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewer procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the village
waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers,
the person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the village for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
   (B)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
   (C)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the village.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-22)
§ 52.122 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   A debt service charge of $ _____ per month to each user of the wastewater
facility is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-23)
§ 52.123 BASIC USER RATE.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a
basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the village.
   (B)   (1)   A minimum charge of $9.65 per month shall be applied to all
users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month.
      (2)   This rate shall be made up of $2.26 per month for operation,
maintenance, and replacement plus $0 for depreciation plus $7.39 for debt
reduction.
   (C)   A basic user rate of $1.77 per 1,000 gallons shall be applied to all
users for water consumption in excess of 2,000 gallons per month. This $1.77
per 1,000 gallons of usage shall be divided into $1.13 for operation,
maintenance, and replacement plus $0 for depreciation plus $0.64 for debt
reduction.
   (D)   (1)   All non-metered residential users of the wastewater facilities
shall pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate to cover the costs of
the minimum debt service charge and the basic user rate.
      (2)   The flat rate charge will be $5.
   (E)   The flat rate charge will allow a maximum of 1,000 gallons per month.
In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the village to
be in excess of 1,000 gallons per month, the village may require such flat rate
user to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to measure
the amount of service supplied.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-24)
§ 52.124 SURCHARGE RATE.
   (A)   The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows:
 
SC BOD1 $0.08 (BOD1 - 204) x Qi x 8.34
SCSS1   $0.07 (SS1 - 240) x Qi x 8.34
SC1     SCBOD1 + SCSS1
 
   (B) The figures in division (A) above translate as follows:
 
Qi     Total monthly flow volume expressed in million gallons
BOD 1  Biochemical oxygen demand concentration (five days, 20°C) of waste expressed
       in milligrams per liter
SS1    Suspended solids concentration of waste expressed in milligrams per liter
SCBOD1 Monthly surcharge in dollars for biochemical oxygen demand for waste
       concentrations greater than 204 mg/1
SCSS1  Monthly surcharge in dollars for suspended solids for waste concentrations
       greater than 240 mg/l
SC1    Total monthly surcharge in dollars
 
(Prior Code, § 38-4-25)
§ 52.125 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by flow measurement and waste sampling.
   (B)   Waste sampling and flow measurement shall be performed, as often as
may be deemed necessary by the village and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 38-4-26)
§ 52.126 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge for users within the village corporate
limits shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CM + CMD + Cmd + (Vu - X) (CU + CUD + Cud) + SC1
   (B)   The equation in division (A) above shall be translated as:
CW   Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period (monthly)
CM   Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement ($2.26)*
CMD  Minimum charge for debt reduction ($7.39)*
CMd  Minimum charge for depreciation ($0)*
Vu   Wastewater volume for billing period
X    Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (2,000 gallons)*
CU   Basic user rate for operation, maintenance, and replacement ($1.13 per
     1,000 gallons)*
CUD  Basic user rate for debt reduction ($0.64)*
CUd  Basic user rate for depreciation ($0)*
SC 1 Amount of surcharge*
Notes to Table:
*See §
52.123
 
(Prior Code, § 38-4-27)
FORMS, APPLICATIONS, TABLES
§ 52.140 OBJECTIONABLE MATERIAL EFFLUENT LIMITS.
Waste or Chemical Concentration mg/l
Waste or Chemical                                      Concentration mg/l
Boron                                                  1.0
Chromium (Hexavalent)                                  5.0
Chromium (Trivalent)                                   10.0
Copper                                                 3.0
Cyanide                                                0.005
Iron                                                   15.0
Lead                                                   0.1
Mercury or its compounds                               0.005
Nickel                                                 3.0
Oil and grease, and the like (carbon tetrachloride     100.0
extraction)
Temperature not over 150°F (65°C)
Acid iron pickling waste or concentrated plating waste 0
Free acids and alkalis pH                              Between 5.5 and 9.5
Zinc                                                   2.0
Cadmium                                                2.0
Chlorine Demand                                        30.0
Phenols                                                0.5
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
§ 52.141 PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL APPLICATION.
   PRIVATE WASTE DISPOSAL APPLICATION
   (SEPTIC TANK, ETC.)
   The undersigned, being the ______________________________________ of the
                  (owner, owner’s agent)                
property located at ___________          ________ does hereby request a permit to install
         (Number)(Street)
sanitary sewage disposal facilities to serve the _______________________ at the location.
                     (residence, commercial building, etc.)
1.   The proposed facilities include: _________________________ to be constructed in complete accordance with the plans and specifications attached hereunto as Exhibit “A.”
2.   The area of the property is [_________] square feet or [________] square meters.
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work is
__________________________                                                                              _______
   _________________________________________________________________________
4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed facilities is ________
5.   The location and nature of all sources of private or public water supply within one hundred (100) feet [30.5 meters] of any boundary of said property are shown on the plat attached
hereunto as Exhibit “B.”
   IN CONSIDERATION OF THE GRANTING OF THIS PERMIT, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work that shall be requested by the Village.
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Revised Code and of all other pertinent codes or ordinances that may be adopted in the future.
3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered by this application in a sanitary manner at all times in compliance with all requirements of the Village and at no
expense to the Village.
4.   To notify the Village at least twenty-four (24) hours to commencement of the work proposed, and again at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the covering of any underground
portions of the installation.
DATE: ______________, 20___         SIGNED: ____________________________
                              (APPLICANT)
               ___________________________________________
                        (ADDRESS OF APPLICANT)
_________________________________________________________________________
   (CERTIFICATION BY CLERK)
$ ________   (Inspection Fee Paid)      DATE: _______________________, 20___
$ ________   (Connection Fee Paid)      SIGNED: ____________________________
                              (CLERK)
_________________________________________________________________________
   (APPLICATION APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED)
DATE: ______________________, 20___   SIGNED: ___________________________
               (PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR OR SUPERINTENDENT)
 
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
§ 52.142 RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION.
   RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION
   The undersigned, being the ___________________________________________ of the property
located at
                     (owner, owner’s agent)
_______________________________ does hereby request a permit to install and connect a
building sewer to serve
      (Number)(Street)
the _________________________________________ at said location.
   (residence, commercial building, etc.)
1.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed building sewer:
      NUMBER      FIXTURE      NUMBER      FIXTURE
      _________      Kitchen Sinks   __________      Water Closets
      _________      Lavatories      __________      Bathtubs
      _________      Laundry Tubs   __________      Showers
      _________      Urinals      __________      Garbage Grinders
   Specify Other Fixtures: ___________________________________________________________
2.   The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures is
_______________________.
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed work is
__________ ________________________________________________________________________________
4.   Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer are attached hereunto as
Exhibit “A.”
   IN CONSIDERATION OF THE GRANTING OF THIS PERMIT, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Revised Code, and of all other pertinent
ordinances and codes that may be adopted in the future.
2.   To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the Village.
3.   To notify the Village when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer, but before any portion of the work is covered.
DATE: ___________________, 20____      SIGNED:
________________________________________________
                                 (APPLICANT)
                           ______________________________________
                              (ADDRESS OF APPLICANT)
_________________________________________________________________________________ ___________
   (CERTIFICATION BY CLERK)
$ ________      (Inspection Fee Paid)         DATE: _________________________, 20____
$ ________      (Connection Fee Paid)         SIGNED: _____________________________________
                                    (CLERK)
_________________________________________________________________________________ ___________
   (APPLICATION APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED)
DATE: _________________________, 20____ SIGNED:
______________________________________________
                        (PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR OR SUPERINTENDENT)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
§ 52.143 INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION.
   INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION APPLICATION
   The undersigned, being the ____________________________________________ of the
property located at
                           (owner, owner’s agent)
_________________________________________________ does hereby request a permit to
         (Number)(Street)
______________________ an industrial sewer connection serving the ______________
which company is engaged
   (install, use)
in _______________________________________ at said location.
1.   A plan of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now existing
is attached hereunto as Exhibit “A.”
2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit “B.”
3.   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced or
expected to be produced at said property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume mid maximum rates of discharge and
representative analyses is attached hereunto as Exhibit “C.”
4.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work covered
by this permit is
_______________________________________________________________________________
   IN CONSIDERATION OF THE GRANTING OF THIS PERMIT, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use of
the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be requested by the
Village.
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Revised Code, and of all other
pertinent ordinances or codes that may be adopted in the future.
3.   To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times, and
at no expense to the Village.
4.   To cooperate at all times with the Village and its representative(s) in
their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial wastes, and any
facilities provided for pretreatment.
5.   To notify the Village immediately in the event of any accident, negligence,
or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the public sewers of any wastes
or process waters not covered by this permit.
DATE: _____________, 20___            SIGNED:
__________________________________________
                                 (APPLICANT)
                              _________________________________
                              (ADDRESS OF APPLICANT)
_________________________________________________________________________________
___________
   (CERTIFICATION BY CLERK)
$ _______   (Inspection Fee Paid)            DATE: _____________________________
$ _______   (Connection Fee Paid)            SIGNED:
_________________________________
                                    (CLERK)
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________
   (APPLICATION APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED)
DATE: _______________, 20__         SIGNED:
_______________________________________________
                        (PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR OR SUPERINTENDENT)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
§ 52.144 APPLICATION FOR SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Application.
   APPLICATION FOR SANITARY SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION
   The undersigned, representing himself as owner of the property located at
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________, hereby makes application for Sanitary Sewerage Service for said
property, and in consideration of the furnishing of said service covenants and
agrees as follows:
1.   I agree to abide by all rules and regulations as specified in and by the
ordinances of the Village now in effect or ordinances enacted and passed from time
to time providing for the regulation of the sanitary sewer system or specifying
fees and rates to be charged for connection and sanitary sewer service furnished
by the Village. It is further acknowledged and agreed that the undersigned, his
heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assigns shall pay all charges
for connection fees and sewer usage which shall become due as the result of the
connecting of the sewerage mains and the furnishing of sanitary sewerage service
to the above property and that all such charges and fees for sanitary sewerage
service rendered to the property, together with penalties, if any, and the costs
of collection are to be considered and become a charge against the property, the
then so created to be enforced in accordance with the ordinances of the Village.
2.   All bills for the aforesaid charges are payable on or before the due date
following the receipt of said bill and if not paid, are subject to a ten percent
(10%) penalty.
3.   Each and all of the agreements and covenants herein contained shall run with
the real estate above described whose present owner is signatory to this
application.
4.   I understand that after making this application, I am to await installation
permit and instructions therewith.
5.   SERVICE CONNECTION FEE: $ _____ is enclosed herewith, payable to the Village.
6.   Permission is hereby granted to the Village and its authorized
representatives at any reasonable time to enter the premises of the applicant and
any portion thereof for the purposes of inspecting all connections appurtenant to
the sewerage outlets, pipes, and mains.
_________________________________________   
______________________________________________
(APPLICANT’S SIGNATURE)               (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
__________________________________________   
______________________________________________
(OWNER'S SIGNATURE, IF NOT APPLICANT)         (VILLAGE, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
                                       ___________________________________________
(TELEPHONE NUMBER)         (DATE)
_________________________________________________________________________________
                  MAIL BILLS TO:   (
Do not fill in the spaces to the right            
(_________________________________________       
if the information is the same as the                     (NAME)
applicant above                      (_________________________________________
                           (STREET NUMBER AND NAME OF STREET)
                           (
                           (_________________________________________
                                 (VILLAGE, STATE AND ZIP CODE)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
   (B)   Receipt.
   RECEIPT
   Receipt is hereby acknowledged of the executed Application for Sanitary Sewer
Service Connection from the person and for the property indicated below.
   This receipt docs not authorize service connection is made, inspection and
approval of the customer service line by an authorized representative of the
Village is required, and approval of such connection and issuance of a
Certificate of Inspection and Approval and Permit is conditioned upon compliance
with all the Ordinances, Codes, Rules, and Regulations of the Village.
NOTE:
1.   In tho event the location of the sewer service connection is unknown, the
Superintendent is to be contacted.
2.   This office is to be notified the day before the work is to be done so that
inspection may be arranged in accordance with specifications furnished. For
example, if you desire inspection on Tuesday, contact us on Monday. If you desire
inspection on Monday, contact us on Friday, etc.
3.   If the sewer line is deep enough to drain your basement, if you have one,
then the wastes from the basement as well as the other floor(s) of the property
must go into the sanitary sewers. Downspout and surface drainage are prohibited
inasmuch as this is not a storm sewer system.
WARNING!   In order to coordinate our inspections, we must be advised a day in
advance before the work is done. The inspection must be made before the trench is
backfilled. If trench is backfilled before the inspection is made, it will have
to be reopened to permit inspection.
NO. ______________________________                     VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
DATE: ___________________________                     COUNTY OF MADISON
ADDRESS: ________________________
OWNER(S): _______________________
__________________________________
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
§ 52.145 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION, APPROVAL, PERMIT.
   CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION, APPROVAL AND PERMIT
   IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED THAT inspection has been made of the individually-
owned sewer mains and sanitary service connection for the property described
below, and said installation is hereby approved is in compliance with the
Specifications, Rules, and Regulations established by the Revised Code (Ch. 53)
of this Municipality.
   Permission is hereby granted to complete the construction of said
individually-owned sewer main to the Village Sanitary Sewerage System and to
utilize the same for waste disposal in compliance at all times, with the
Revised Code of this Village.
NO. ________________________
ADDRESS: ______________________________________________________________
TYPE OF CONNECTION:
               _______      Single-Family Residence
               _______      Multiple dwelling or trailer court
               _______      Commercial
               _______      Industrial
               _______      Institutional
               _______      Governmental
INSTALLATION BY:
________________________________________________________________
   THE SERVICE IS IN OPERATION AS OF THIS _____ DAY OF _______________, 20_____
                                    VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
                                    COUNTY OF MADISON
                                    SIGNED: _________________
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 38)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except
§§
52.001 through
52.007,
52.020 through
52.026,
52.040 through
52.052,
52.065 through
52.076,
52.090 through
52.092, and
52.105 and
52.106 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this chapter, or violation of regulations of other agencies having lawful
jurisdiction. Upon revocation of any permit to discharge, the person violating
the chapter or regulation shall cease and desist discharge of wastewater or
industrial waste to the public sewer system and treatment works, and shall not
continue the discharge in any manner which would violate state, federal, or
local pollution control laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-60)
   (C)   Any person who shall continue an violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
52.105, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-61)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-5-62)
(Ord. 89-1, passed 2-20-1989)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE
Section
Refuse Code
   
53.01   Title
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Scheduled pick-ups
   
53.04   Required collection
   
53.05   Hours for collection
   
53.06   Legal holidays prohibited
REFUSE CODE
§ 53.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Municipal Refuse
Code of the Village of Livingston” or “this subchapter.”
(Prior Code, § 15-1-1) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible materials.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body waste),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-2) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 53.03 SCHEDULED PICK-UPS.
   Any person requiring a garbage and/or refuse hauler’s license shall also
submit to the Village Clerk a schedule outlining the days and locations of
trash collection within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-5) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 53.04 REQUIRED COLLECTION.
   Garbage, rubbish, and refuse accumulated by residences located within the
village corporate limits shall be collected at least once each week. Hotels,
restaurants, and other such businesses and institutions within the village
corporate limits shall have their garbage, rubbish, and refuse collected at
least once each week. Such hotels, restaurants, and other such businesses and
institutions within the village corporate limits, as deemed necessary, may
enter into an agreement for a greater frequency of collection. Where necessary
to protect the public health, the village shall have the authority to require
that more frequent collections be made at hotels, restaurants, and such other
businesses and institutions within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-7) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 53.05 HOURS FOR COLLECTION.
   Any garbage and/or refuse hauler doing business or performing services
within the village shall pickup such garbage, rubbish, and refuse only between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-8) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 53.06 LEGAL HOLIDAYS PROHIBITED.
   Refuse not picked up by any garbage and/or refuse hauler on any legal
holiday shall be picked up on the next working day, and collections for the
balance of the week following the week of the holiday may be made one day later
than normally scheduled. All such collections should be completed by Saturday.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-9) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Vehicle Code; definitions adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Signs and signals
   
70.05   Unauthorized signs
   
70.06   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.07   Advertising signs
   
70.08   Administrative fees and procedures for impounding vehicles for
specified violations
Stop and Through Streets
   
70.20   Through streets
   
70.21   One-way streets or alleys
   
70.22   Stop streets
   
70.23   Yield right-of-way streets
   
70.24   Posting signs
Driving Rules
   
70.35   State Vehicle Code; rules of the road
   
70.36   Driving rules
   
70.37   Duty to report accident
   
70.38   Transporting liquor in vehicles
   
70.39   Excessive noise; stopped vehicle, wheels, squealing tires, while
driving
   
70.40   Reckless, negligent, careless driving
   
70.41   Idling prohibited
Equipment of Vehicles
   
70.55   State Vehicle Code; equipment of vehicles adopted
   
70.56   Muffler
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE; DEFINITIONS ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, 65 ILCS 5, Chapter 1, entitled “Title and
Definitions,” as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly,
is hereby adopted by the village, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-1-1)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department, special police, auxiliary police,
and Marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or in emergencies as
public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction
of a police officer.
   (B)   Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(625 ILCS 5/11-203) (Prior Code, § 24-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command or any firefighter designated by him
or her may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene
in the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 70.04 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state except upon
direction of a police officer.
   (B)   All signs and signals established by direction of the governing body
shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
(625 ILCS 5/11-301) (Prior Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-
control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the
movement of traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain, or display upon or
in view of any street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with
the movement of traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   (B)   No tree, bush, or foliage of any kind shall be so placed, maintained,
allowed to remain, or be displayed upon either public or private property in
such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the movement of traffic or
the effectiveness of any traffic control device, sign, or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move, or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the village any sign,
signal, marking, or device other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by
the Village Board or the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any flashing or rotating
beacon of light in view of any street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against public property, see
Chapter 133
   Sign regulations in the zoning code, see
Chapter 156
   Streets and sidewalks regulations, see
Chapter 151
§ 70.08 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND PROCEDURES FOR IMPOUNDING VEHICLES FOR
SPECIFIED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The village pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-208.7 does hereby provide
procedures for the release of properly impounded vehicles and for the
imposition of a reasonable administrative fee related to its administrative and
processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest, and detention of an
offender, or the removal, impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle. The
administrative fee imposed by the village shall be in addition to any fees
charged for the towing and storage of an impounded vehicle. The administrative
fee shall be waived by the village upon verifiable proof that the vehicle was
stolen or hijacked at the time the vehicle was impounded.
   (B)   This section establishing procedures for the release of properly
impounded vehicles under this section may impose fees only for the following
violations:
      (1)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/36-
1;
      (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
625 ILCS 5/11-501;
      (3)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the Cannabis Control Act, being
720 ILCS 550;
      (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Controlled Substances Act,
being 720 ILCS 570;
      (5)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of 720 ILCS 5/24-1, 5/24-1.5, or 5/
24-3.1 of the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012;
      (6)   Driving while a driver’s license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/6-303; except that
vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if the suspension is
for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure to comply with
emission testing;
      (7)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Cannabis Control Act or the Controlled Substances Act;
      (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s
license, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, if the period of expiration is
greater than one year;
      (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver’s license or permit, in violation of 625 ILCS 5/6-101, or operating a
motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver’s license or permit due
to a person’s age;
      (10)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in the state for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated 625 ILCS 5/6-101, 5/6-303, or 5/11-501;
      (11)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the
Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/16 or 5/
16A;
      (12)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
the Criminal Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, when so provided by
local ordinance; or
      (13)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of 625 ILCS 5/11-
503:
         (a)   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
         (b)   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   (C)   The following shall apply to any fees imposed for administrative and
processing costs pursuant to division (B) above.
      (1)   All administrative fees and towing and storage charges shall be
imposed on the registered owner of the motor vehicle or the agents of that
owner.
      (2)   No administrative fees shall be imposed on the registered owner or
the agents of that owner if the motor vehicle was stolen or hijacked at the
time the vehicle was impounded. To demonstrate that the motor vehicle was
hijacked or stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, the owner or the
agents of the owner must submit proof that a report concerning the motor
vehicle was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
      (3)   The fees shall be in addition to any other penalties that may be
assessed by a court of law for the underlying violations; and any towing or
storage fees, or both, charged by the towing company.
      (4)   The fees shall be $250 for all similarly situated vehicles.
      (5)   The fees shall be collected by and paid to the county or
municipality imposing the fees.
      (6)   The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid
to the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
   (D)   This section does hereby establish procedures for the release of
properly impounded vehicles under this section by providing an opportunity for
an administrative hearing, as provided in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4), and for
the release of the vehicle to the owner of record, lessee, or a lienholder of
record upon payment of all administrative fees and towing and storage fees.
   (E)   This section establishing procedures for the impoundment and release
of vehicles under this section includes the following provisions concerning
notice of impoundment.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to impoundment, the officer shall provide for the towing of the
vehicle to a facility authorized by the village.
      (2)   At the time the vehicle is towed, the village shall notify or make
a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or person identifying himself
or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who is found to
be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of
the seizure, and of the vehicle owner’s or lessee’s right to an administrative
hearing.
      (3)   The village shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder post with the village a bond
equal to the administrative fee as provided by this section and also pays for
all towing and storage charges.
   (F)   The village shall provide that the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle and any lienholder of record shall be provided with a written notice of
the hearing. The notice shall:
      (1)   Be served upon the owner, lessee, and any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested parties
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Be served upon interested parties within ten days after a vehicle
is impounded by the municipality; and
      (3)   Contain the date, time, and location of the administrative hearing.
An initial hearing shall be scheduled and convened no later than 45 days after
the date of the mailing of the notice of hearing.
   (G)   In addition to the requirements contained in 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4)
relating to administrative hearings, the following requirements shall apply:
      (1)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in this state for a minimum of three
years;
      (2)   The hearing officer shall consider as a defense to the vehicle
impoundment that the motor vehicle was stolen or hijacked at the time the
vehicle was impounded; to demonstrate that the motor vehicle was hijacked or
stolen at the time the vehicle was impounded, the owner or the agents of the
owner or a lessee must submit proof that a report concerning the motor vehicle
was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner;
      (3)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment;
      (4)   If the basis for the vehicle impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the village;
      (5)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law;
      (6)   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid;
      (7)   If the administrative hearing officer finds that the village when
impounding a vehicle exceeded its authority under this section, the village
shall be liable to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle for the cost
of storage fees and reasonable attorney’s fees, if any are, incurred; and
      (8)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, if the
administrative hearing officer finds that a county or municipality impounded a
motor vehicle that was stolen or hijacked at the time the vehicle was
impounded, the village shall refund any administrative fees already paid by the
registered owner or lessee of the vehicle.
   (H)   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility
within 35 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of 625 ILCS 5/Ch. 4 Art. II.
   (I)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty,
or administrative fee imposed under this section which remains unpaid in whole
or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review
under the Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2024-8, passed 5-8-2024)
STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
§ 70.20 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by
ordinance as “through streets” are hereby declared to be through streets.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street
and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the
intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic
officer.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-1)
§ 70.21 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated.
(625 ILCS 5/11-208) (Prior Code, § 24-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.22 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance at one or more
entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously yielding to the vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(625 ILCS 5/11-302) (Prior Code, § 24-3-3)
§ 70.23 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, in obedience to such
sign, shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, then before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection
or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (B)   After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as
to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across
or within the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 24-3-4)
§ 70.24 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop, and yield
right-of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys, and all stop
intersections.
(625 ILCS 5/11-304) (Prior Code, § 24-3-5)
DRIVING RULES
§ 70.35 STATE VEHICLE CODE; RULES OF THE ROAD.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 11, entitled “Rules of the Road,” as
passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly is hereby adopted
by the village and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the village except for the following changes, deletions,
and omissions:
   (A)   Omissions. Omit sections 11-207, 11-208.1, 11-208.2, 11-209.1, 11-302,
11-303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 through 11-416, 11-500 through 11-502, 11-
602, 11-603, 11-604, 11-606(b), 11-608, 11-1419, and 11-1422 of 625 ILCS 5.
   (B)   Changes and additions.
      (1)   Change 625 ILCS 5/11-904(a) to read: “Preferential right-of-way at
an intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as authorized by this
Code.”
      (2)   Change 625 ILCS 5/11-1416 to read: “Any person who shall willfully
and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any other person in
lawfully driving and traveling upon or along any highway within the state or
who shall offer for barter or sale, merchandise on said highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a violation of this Code.”
(Prior Code, § 24-4-1)
§ 70.36 DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Careless driving. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the
village in a careless manner so as to interfere with the safe or lawful
operation of any other vehicle or so as to interfere with or to injure, damage,
or endanger persons or property engaged in the lawful use of the street.
   (B)   Drag racing unlawful. No person shall be a participant in drag racing
as defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-506.
   (C)   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer. Any driver or operator
of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a
police officer directing such driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to
a stop, willfully fails to or refuses to obey such direction, increases his or
her speed, extinguishes his or her lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer is guilty of a violation of this subchapter. The signal given
by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or red or blue lights.
Provided, however, the officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform
and, if driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an
official police vehicle.
   (D)   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker. The Department of Local
Authorities with reference to traffic-control signals, signs, or markers owned
by the Department of Local Authorities are authorized to indicate the ownership
of such signs, signals, or markers on the back of such devices in letters not
less than three-eighths of an inch or more than three-fourths of an inch in
height, by use of a metal stamp, etching, or other permanent means and except
for employees of the Department of Local Authorities, police officers,
contractors, and their employees engaged in highway construction, contract, or
work on the highway approved by the Department of Local Authorities, it is a
violation of this subchapter for any person to possess such sign, signal, or
marker so identified.
(625 ILCS 5/11-313)
   (E)   Special speed limitations on elevated structures.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure
when such structure is sign-posted.
      (2)   Upon the trial of any person charged with the violation of this
section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the village and the
existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can
be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
(625 ILCS 5/11-608)
   (F)   General speed restrictions. The speed limits on the various streets
shall be approved by the Village Board, but shall not exceed 20 mph in a school
zone and not to exceed 25 mph on a residential street; otherwise, 30 mph on an
arterial street unless otherwise posted.
(625 ILCS 5/11-604)
   (G)   Special speed limit while passing schools.
      (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20
mph while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare
on or across which children pass going to and from school during school days
when school children are present.
      (2)   This division (G) shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs
are posted upon streets and maintained by the village or state wherein the
school zone is located.
(625 ILCS 5/11-605)
   (H)   Failure to reduce speed.
      (1)   (a)   A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets and alleys of the
village at a speed which is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the street or alley.
         (b)   The fact that the vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum
speed limit does not relieve the driver of the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or when special hazard exists with
respect to pedestrian or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions.
      (2)   Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with
any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (I)   Traffic lane usage. Whenever any roadway within the village has been
divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be
moved from such lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement
can be made with safety.
   (J)   U-turns prohibited. No driver of a vehicle shall make a “U-turn” on
any street or at any intersection of any streets in the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.37 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within the village shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the Police
Department and shall make a report of such action.
   (b)   Failure to report an accident within the village within 24 hours shall
result in arrests of the person or persons involved.
(625 ILCS 5/11-415) (Prior Code, § 24-4-3)
§ 70.38 TRANSPORTING LIQUOR IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall transport, carry, possess, or have any alcoholic liquor
within the passenger area of any motor vehicle in the village except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
(625 ILCS 5/11-502) (Prior Code, § 24-4-4)
§ 70.39 EXCESSIVE NOISE; STOPPED VEHICLE, WHEELS, SQUEALING TIRES, WHILE
DRIVING.
   (A)   Stopped vehicle. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor
vehicle is stopped, unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears
of the vehicle in neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-5)
   (B)   Wheels. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle
is stopped, accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral and
while so accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a forward
or reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with the drive
wheels of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-6)
   (C)   Squealing tires. No operator of a motor vehicle shall cause the wheels
of such vehicle to spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or
excessive noise.
(625 ILCS 5/11-505) (Prior Code, § 24-4-7)
   (D)   While driving. No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating
the vehicle, accelerate the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle causing an
unreasonably loud noise.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.40 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT, CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the village in a careless,
reckless, negligent, or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.41 IDLING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause any truck, semi-trailer, or
truck tractor-trailer combination to remain with its engine running in an
idling condition anywhere within the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-4-10) (Ord. 91-2, passed 7-10-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 70.55 STATE VEHICLE CODE; EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES ADOPTED.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 12, entitled “Equipment of Vehicles,” as
passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly is hereby adopted
by the village and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of the village.
(625 ILCS 5/12-605, 5/12-605.1, and 5/12-605.2) (Prior Code, § 24-5-1)
§ 70.56 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition, and the use of a
cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(625 ILCS 5/12-602) (Prior Code, § 24-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Time limit parking
   
71.02   Parking for sale or repair
   
71.03   Private property
   
71.04   Stopping, standing, parking prohibited
   
71.05   Load limits
   
71.06   Towing cars away
   
71.07   Parking violations
   
71.08   Snow routes
   
71.09   Citation form
Parking for the Handicapped
   
71.21   Designated parking
   
71.22   Use of designated handicapped parking
   71.23   Application for state handicapped registration plate
Commercial and Residential Restricted Parking
   
71.35   Commercial vehicle definition
   
71.36   Recreational vehicle definition
   
71.37   Prohibition on commercial vehicle parking
   
71.38   Prohibition on recreational vehicle parking
   
71.39   Exceptions to prohibitions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-1) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-2) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.03 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-3) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic-
control devices, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; and
         (k)   In any alley that is open and maintained.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers):
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance (when properly sign-posted); and
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing or parking.
      (3)   Parking a vehicle (whether occupied or not, except temporarily for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers):
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking; and
         (c)   In yellow zones.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   
Chapter 74, Schedule I, shall list all applicable no-parking zones.
   (D)   No person shall park any vehicle, vehicles, or trailer the length of
which exceeds 20 feet or any Second Division vehicle licensed for an “F”
classification or higher:
      (1)   Upon any street, alley, or any public way within the village except
for the purpose and time period reasonably necessary to load and unload the
same; or
      (2)   Upon public or private property within the village with the motor
running for a continuous period in excess of 30 minutes.
(625 ILCS 5/3-815)
(Prior Code, § 24-6-4) (Ord. 676, passed - -1987; Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established gross load limits on certain
village streets. The term GROSS LOAD LIMIT shall mean the total weight of a
vehicle and the load it is carrying.
   (B)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any
street where the operation is prohibited by this section and where such signs
of prohibition are posted, excepting those vehicles which are providing goods
and services to village residents or businesses including transit vehicles and
waste hauling/recycling.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not include pickup trucks, trucks
operated by the village for maintenance and repairs on the street, or the
operation of a vehicle owned by the U.S. Government or the state while on
lawful business of these agencies.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-5) (Ord. 866, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-
2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away,
by commercial towing service any car, boat, trailer, or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant, or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 hours.
   (B)   Vehicles towed away shall be stored on a designated village
impoundment lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof after
payment of the expense incurred by the village in removing and storing such
vehicle(s).
(Prior Code, § 24-6-6) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.07 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Removal time limit. Any vehicle illegally parked for a period in
excess of 24 hours may be removed by a towing service authorized by the Police
Department of the municipality. In any emergency, any vehicle may be removed by
any means when authorized by the Police Department of the municipality.
   (B)   Village parking lots. No person shall park a motor vehicle on a
village parking lot unattended for more than five consecutive days.
   (C)   Parking violation ticket. The parking violation ticket shall be as
follows.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-7)
      (1)   The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked or operated is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-8)
      (2)   (a)   The Village Board intends to utilize 625 ILCS 5/6-209.1 and
the procedure set forth therein.
         (b)   The appropriate authorities are hereby authorized to utilize the
statute and the procedure set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-10)
(Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.08 SNOW ROUTES.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on the following designated streets
at any time within 18 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more, unless
the street has been cleared of snow.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-9) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 CITATION FORM.
CITATION FORM
 
NO. _____________________________   TIME _____________________________
 
DATE ___________________________      STATE __________________________
 
LIC. NO. _________________________   MAKE OF VEHICLE _________________
 
LICENSE EXPIRES ____________________   OFFICER ________________________
 
   YOU ARE CHARGED WITH THE VIOLATION MARKED BELOW:
 
1.   Overparked, Two Hour Zone   $5.00 ( )
2.   Double Parked         $5.00 ( )
3.   Parked at Fire Plug         $5.00 ( )
4.   Blocking Driveway or Alley      $5.00 ( )
5.   Parked Where Official Signs Erected   $5.00 ( )
6.   Improper Parking         $5.00 ( )
7.   Yellow Line            $5.00 ( )
8.   Each Additional Hour Violation   $2.00 ( )
9.   Parking on Sidewalk      $5.00 ( )
 
NAME _______________________________________________________________________
 
ADDRESS _____________________________________________________________________
 
CITY _________________________   STATE ____________   ZIP CODE ________
 
You may settle and compromise a claim for illegal parking by paying the sum set
forth above for the first particular violation and the same sum shall apply for
the same particular offense for the second and each subsequent violation within
5 days after the time set out above. If not paid within this time limit, an
Enforcement Warrant will be issued and an assessment of not less than $5.00
will be collected.
 
   FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE
After detaching your Ticket Stub, place the fine in the envelope and deposit it
in any of the utility collection box installed at the Village Hall.
 
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24)
PARKING FOR THE HANDICAPPED
§ 71.20 DESIGNATED PARKING.
   (A)   Certain parking spaces within the confines of the village shall be
designated for use by handicapped persons’ vehicles only and will be posted
with appropriate signs to that effect.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-15)
   (B)   Those places designated as “handicapped parking zones” are listed in
Chapter 74, Schedule II.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-19)
(Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.21 USE OF DESIGNATED HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The use of designated handicapped parking locations, duly posted and signed
shall to that effect, be open to any vehicle which bears the appropriate
handicapped state registration plate issued by the Secretary of State, or a
valid handicapped parking permit issued by another governmental agency or which
bears a handicapped card furnished in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et
seq. furnished by the village.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-16) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.22 APPLICATION FOR STATE HANDICAPPED REGISTRATION PLATE.
   The issuance of a State Handicapped Motor Vehicle Registration Plate shall
be made with the Secretary of State at any facility provided and approved for
that purpose by the Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-17) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2
COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL RESTRICTED PARKING
§ 71.35 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this section, a COMMERCIAL VEHICLE shall be defined as
any of the following:
   (A)   Any vehicle requiring a driver’s license greater than Class “D” as
regulated by the state;
   (B)   Any vehicle with an unloaded gross vehicle weight of greater than
8,000 pounds. For the purposes of the measurement of the weight of the vehicle,
the weight may be determined by either the scale weight or the weight at which
the vehicle is registered, licensed, and/or titled;
   (C)   Any vehicle with a height of greater than seven feet from the top to
bottom. For the purposes of the measurement of the height of a vehicle, the
measurement shall be of the vertical distance between the lowest part of the
tires of the measured vehicle to the top of the highest part of the measured
vehicle. Any accessories, attachments, and materials fixed or carried upon such
vehicle shall be considered part of the vehicle, with the exception of aerial
antennas;
   (D)   (1)   Any vehicle with a length of greater than 20 feet from front to
back.
      (2)   For the purposes of the measurement of the length of a vehicle, the
measurement shall be of horizontal distance between the front edge of the
measured vehicle to the rear edge of the measured vehicle.
      (3)   Any accessories, attachments, and materials fixed or carried upon
such vehicle shall be considered part of the vehicle.
   (E)   Any non-motorized vehicle regardless of its weight, height, or length
when it has been detached from a motor vehicle that is capable of towing such,
non-motorized vehicle;
   (F)   Any trailer or a portable structure supported by wheels, jacks, skids,
or blocks without a permanent foundation which is towed or hauled by another
vehicle and is used for carrying materials, goods, or objects in furtherance of
any industrial, commercial, or business purpose, or is used as a temporary
office; and
   (G)   Any portable container or POD, with or without wheels, that is used
for temporary storage of household items, construction equipment, commercial
equipment, industrial equipment, or personal property.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-24) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.36 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall be defined
as any type of vehicle used primarily for pleasure including, but not limited
to, the following: campers, motor homes, pop-up campers, racing cars, boats,
wave-runners, jet skis, snowmobiles, ATVs, and the trailers that have the
ability to carry, hold, or transport any of the vehicles defined in this
definition.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-25) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.37 PROHIBITION ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   Except for as stated otherwise in §
71.39, no commercial vehicle shall be parked or stored in a residential
district.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-26) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 PROHIBITION ON RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING.
   Except for as stated otherwise in §
71.39, no recreational vehicle shall be parked or stored in a residential
district.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-27) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.39 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITIONS.
   The aforementioned prohibitions in this subchapter do not apply to the
following:
   (A)   For commercial vehicles:
      (1)   Commercial vehicles temporarily parked at a residence solely
because of services provided to that particular residential location, but only
while engaged in their customary business or commercial use;
      (2)   Commercial vehicles temporarily parked at a residence solely
because of deliveries to that particular residential location, but only while
engaged in their customary business or commercial use;
      (3)   Commercial vehicles temporarily parked at a residence solely
because of loading and unloading persons or property at that particular
residential location, but only while engaged in their customary business or
commercial use;
      (4)   Commercial vehicles located in a fully enclosed permanent
structure;
      (5)   Commercial vehicles located in the rear yard and completely
screened from view by a solid wood fence, masonry wall, slatted chain link
fence, or landscaping (for example, trees or shrubs) that are at least six feet
in height. Temporary storage tents or covers for commercial vehicles shall not
be considered to comply with this exception. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the REAR YARD shall be that portion of the real property that is
bounded by the side lot lines, rear lot line, and the rear building line of the
structure on the real property; and
      (6)   Commercial vehicles located in the side yard and completely
screened from view by a solid wood fence, masonry wall, slatted chain link
fence, or landscaping (for example, trees or shrubs) that are at least six feet
in height. Temporary storage tents or covers for commercial vehicles shall not
be considered to comply with this exception. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the SIDE YARD shall be that portion of the real property that is
bounded by the side lot lines and both the front and rear building lines of the
structure on the real property.
   (B)   For recreational vehicles:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles located in a driveway;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles located in a fully enclosed permanent
structure;
      (3)   (a)   Recreational vehicles located in the rear yard and completely
screened from view by a solid wood fence, masonry wall, slatted chain link
fence, or landscaping (for example, trees or shrubs) that are at least six feet
in height. Temporary storage tents or covers for commercial vehicles shall not
be considered to comply with this exception.
         (b)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the REAR YARD shall be that
portion of the real property that is bounded by the side lot lines, rear lot
line, and the rear building line of the structure on the real property.
      (4)   (a)   Recreational vehicles located in the side yard and completely
screened from view by a solid wood fence, masonry wall, slatted chain link
fence, or landscaping (for example, trees or shrubs) that are at least six feet
in height.
         (b)   Temporary storage tents or covers for recreational vehicles
shall not be considered to comply with this exception. For the purposes of this
subchapter, the SIDE YARD shall be that portion of the real property that is
bounded by the side lot lines and both the front and rear building lines of the
structure on the real property.
   (C)   Vehicles parked or left standing as a result of a mechanical breakdown
so as to allow for the performance of emergency repairs on the vehicle, or
while waiting for a tow operator, for a period not to exceed four hours.
   (D)   Publicly owned or publicly franchised emergency or utility vehicles
required by publicly franchised utility departments or municipal, state, or
federal governments to be taken home by on-call employees who are required to
either respond to emergencies or to make emergency service calls or utility
repairs.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-28) (Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be there parked, as stated in §
71.07, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal
parking by paying to the village $20 for each such offense and $50 for the
second offense within six months. Such payment may be made at the Village Hall
and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received, and such money shall
be promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the General Fund.
The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain from
instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at least five
days.
      (2)   Provided, §
71.07 shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the
entrance or exit of any place where Police and Fire Department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed or so as to block an emergency
entrance in a hospital. Nor shall §
71.07 apply to any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely
obstruct traffic in any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who
refuses to remove a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-7)
   (C)   Any vehicle parked in violation of §§
71.20 through
71.22 in a posted designated handicapped space which does not bear a state
handicapped registration plate, or a valid handicapped parking permit issued by
another governmental agency of a village handicapped registration card will be
ticketed and the vehicle will be removed in accordance with departmental
policies and in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/11-1302. The registered owner of the
vehicle as ascertained by the registration plates of the vehicle will be
presumed to be in control of the vehicle and will be fined $200. The same
registered owner will be held liable for the cost of removal of the vehicle and
must pay that cost, plus storage charges, if any, prior to the release of the
vehicle.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c)) (Prior Code, § 24-6-18)
(Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-2008)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Policy statement
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Requirements
   
72.04   Permits
   
72.05   Possibility of amendment, suspension, end of golf cart program
   
72.06   Release of liability form
Bicycles
   
72.20   Animals or bicycles
   
72.21   Lamps, other equipment on bicycles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The village, in passing this subchapter, is not advocating or
endorsing the use of golf carts or utility terrain vehicles on village streets.
Other means of travel may be safer than a golf cart or a utility terrain
vehicle.
      (2)   All persons who operate golf carts or utility terrain vehicles
within the village do so at their own risk and peril. In passing this
subchapter, the village does not accept any level of liability for accidents,
collisions, injuries, or death, or destruction of property. In passing this
subchapter, the village is merely regulating the use of golf carts or utility
terrain vehicles on village streets, as invited by the law of the state, in an
attempt to increase safety on village streets.
   (B)   Golf carts or utility terrain vehicles specifically defined and
qualified herein shall be allowed on village streets under the conditions as
stated herein. No four-wheelers or any other recreational off-highway vehicle
shall be permitted unless specifically authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs while engaged in the
playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of
the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A self-propelled, electronically powered four-
wheeled motor vehicle or a self-propelled gasoline powered four wheeled motor
vehicle with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters which is
capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20 mph but not more than
25 mph as utilized (for example, may not be used in excess of 25 mph as set
forth below) and which conforms to the federal regulations under 49 C.F.R. §
571.500.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village
excluding any street which is under the jurisdiction of a unit of government
other than the village, including, but not limited to, Olive Township, the
county, or the state.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 72.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or a utility terrain
vehicle on the village streets must ensure compliance with following
requirements:
      (1)   Proof of current liability insurance, a copy of which shall be kept
in the golf cart or utility terrain vehicle whenever used on village streets;
      (2)   Must be certified with the village and have the vehicle certified
with the village by inspection by a designated representative;
      (3)   Must display village decal or other identifying marking selected by
the village on both sides of the vehicle;
      (4)   Must have a current and valid state driver’s license;
      (5)   (a)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
            1.   Horn;
            2.   Brakes and brake lights;
            3.   Front and rear turn signals;
            4.   A steering wheel apparatus;
            5.   Tires;
            6.   Rearview mirror;
            7.   Seat belts for each passenger;
            8.   Red reflector warning device on the front and rear;
            9.   Yellow flashing light visible for at least 100 feet from the
rear of the golf cart. Said lights must be turned on when operated one hour
before sunrise or one hour before sunset;
            10.   Approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblem on the rear of the
vehicle (625 ILCS 5/12-709);
            11.   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
            12.   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100
feet from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation; and
            13.   Any additional requirements which may be amended to 625 ILCS
5/11-1426.1 of the State Motor Vehicle Code.
         (b)   Utility-terrain vehicles must be equipped as follow:
            1.   Brakes and brake lights;
            2.   Front and rear turn signals;
            3.   A steering wheel apparatus;
            4.   Tires;
            5.   Rearview mirror;
            6.   Seat belts for each passenger;
            7.   Red reflector warning device on the front and rear;
            8.   Yellow flashing light visible for at least 100 feet from the
rear of the vehicle. Said lights must be turned on when operated one hour
before sunrise or one hour before sunset;
            9.   Approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblem on the rear of the
vehicle;
(625 ILCS 5/12-709)
            10.   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
            11.   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100
feet from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation; and
            12.   Any additional requirements which may be amended to 625 ILCS
5/11-1426.1 of the State Motor Vehicle Code.
      (6)   Must obey all traffic laws of the state and the village;
      (7)   Must be 21 years of age;
      (8)   Must be operated only on the village streets, except where
prohibited;
      (9)   May not be operated on streets under the jurisdiction of Olive
Township, the county, or the state, except to cross said streets at designated
crossing points. Subject to approval by the State Department of Transportation,
the designated crossing points shall be a path 90 degrees to said streets;
      (10)   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limit and,
regardless, may not exceed 25 mph;
      (11)   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of a golf
cart or utility terrain vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under
the influence is subject to 625 ILCS 11-500 through 11-502;
      (12)   Each golf cart or utility terrain vehicle may transport only as
many individuals as is the lesser of the number of seats or as its manufacturer
designates. No individuals may ride on any other portion of the golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle;
      (13)   Children must be restrained in a golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle in the same manner required as if they were in an automobile. Car seat
and seatbelts laws shall be followed when children are in golf carts or utility
terrain vehicles;
      (14)   Whenever being operated on village streets, headlights and
taillights shall be illuminated;
      (15)   Golf carts or utility terrain vehicles may only be operated on
village streets from the hours of 6:00 a.m. or sunrise, whichever is later, and
until 9:00 p.m. or sunset, whichever is earlier;
      (16)   No person shall be in possession of or consume alcoholic beverages
on or in a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on Village streets. A person
operating or who is in actual physical control of a golf cart or utility
terrain vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under the influence is
subject to 625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502;
      (17)   No person shall drive or be in control of a golf cart or utility
terrain vehicle on village streets when an analysis of the person’s blood,
urine, breath, or other bodily substance would disclose an alcohol
concentration of more than 0.00 grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood
or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath; and
      (18)   Golf carts or utility terrain vehicles shall not be operated on
sidewalks or in village parks other than in designated parking areas.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 72.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle without first obtaining a permit from the Chief of Police, the highest
ranking police officer or his or her designee, or, if no police officer is
employed by the village at that time, then the Village President. A copy of
said permit shall be kept in the golf cart or utility terrain vehicle whenever
used on village streets. Only an individual with a valid permit shall be
allowed to operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on the streets within
the village and said individual shall only be allowed to operate golf carts or
utility terrain vehicles on village streets that have been inspected and
approved for travel and feature a village decal or other identification as
detailed above.
   (B)   Permits shall be granted for a period of only year for the date
designated on the permit. Renewal date is annually January 1 regardless of when
the permit was granted.
   (C)   The cost of the permit if $50.
   (D)   Insurance coverage is to be verified to be in effect by the Police
Department when obtaining and renewing a permit.
   (E)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, and description of golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the village and
agreeing to defend, indemnify, and hold the village harmless from any and all
future claims resulting from the operation of their golf carts or utility
terrain vehicle on village streets relating to the golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle owned or operated by the applicant;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit; and
      (6)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (F)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the from the Chief of Police, the
highest ranking police officer or his or her designee, or, if no police officer
is employed by the village at that time, then the Village President, to ensure
that the vehicle is safe to operate on village streets and is in compliance
with this section and with the State Motor Vehicle Code;
      (2)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the state statutes regarding minimum liability insurance; and
      (3)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on village streets.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 POSSIBILITY OF AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, END OF GOLF CART PROGRAM.
   (A)   Individuals are advised that the village is permitting the use of golf
carts or utility terrain vehicles on village streets in limited circumstances
and pursuant to current state law. Individuals should view the use of golf
carts or utility terrain vehicles on village streets as a program which could
be suspended, modified, or ended at any time and effective immediately upon a
majority vote of the Village Board amending this subchapter, upon a court
ruling, or in the event of a change in the laws of the state or the United
States of America. Individuals should consider these factors when making the
decision to purchase golf carts or utility terrain vehicles, or make
potentially expensive upgrades to golf carts or utility terrain vehicle.
   (B)   In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction declares any
particular provision of this subchapter to be invalid or unenforceable, the
remaining provisions of this subchapter shall be construed to be valid and
enforceable. The invalidity of any part of this subchapter shall not affect any
part or parts thereof.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017)
§ 72.06 RELEASE OF LIABILITY FORM.
   RELEASE OF LIABILITY
   OPERATION OF NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES ON STREETS
   UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON, ILLINOIS
 
   READ CAREFULLY BEFORE SIGNING
 
   I, _________________ have secured a permit to operate a nonhighway vehicle on the
streets under the jurisdiction of the Village of Livingston, Illinois pursuant to the
Village Code of Ordinances, Chapter 72.
 
   I understand that as a permitted operator there are inherent risks that may expose
me to damage to or loss of property, and physical injuries including death. I
understand and voluntarily assume all risks related to the use of a nonhighway vehicle
as permitted by the Village Ordinance and the laws of the State of Illinois.
 
   In consideration of the Village of Livingston permitting me to operate a nonhighway
vehicle on the streets of Livingston, I agree as follows:
   1)   I, individually, and on behalf of my heirs, successors, assigns and personal
representatives, hereby release and forever discharge the Village of Livingston and
its employees, agents, officers, trustees and representatives (in their official and
individual capacities) (“Releasees”) from any and all liability whatsoever for any and
all damages, losses or injuries (including death) I sustain to my person or property
or both, including but not limited to any claims, demands, actions, causes of action,
judgments, damages, expenses and costs, including attorney fees, which arise out of,
result from, occur during, or are connected in any manner with my use of the Village
streets pursuant to the terms of the permit issued for the operation of a nonhighway
vehicle whether caused by the negligence of the Releasees or otherwise.
   2)   I, individually, and on behalf of my heirs, successors, assigns and personal
representatives, hereby agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Village of
Livingston, its employees, agents, officers, trustees and representatives (in their
official and individual capacities) from any and all liability, loss, damage or
expense, including attorney fees, which arise out of, result from, occur during, or
are in any way connected manner with my operation of the nonhighway vehicle.
   3)   I agree to comply with all Village of Livingston ordinances including but not
limited to Ordinance number 2017-14 and the laws of the State of Illinois regarding
the requirements for operation of non-highway vehicles on the Village streets under
the jurisdiction of the Village of Livingston, Illinois. Failure to do so will result
in the revocation of the permit to operate a nonhighway vehicle in the Village of
Livingston. I specifically agree not to allow or permit any nonpermitted driver to
operate any non-highway vehicle that is permitted to me.
 
   I agree that this Waiver, Release and Indemnification Agreement is to be construed
under the laws of the State of Illinois; and that if any portion thereof is held
invalid, the balance hereof shall, notwithstanding, continue in full legal force and
effect. I agree that this Agreement is to be construed broadly to provide a release,
indemnification and waiver to the maximum extent permissible under applicable law.
 
   In signing this document, I hereby acknowledge that I have read this entire
document, that I understand its terms, that I am at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, that by signing it I am giving up substantial legal rights I might otherwise
have, and that I have signed it knowingly and voluntarily.
 
Signature ______________________________                     Date
___________________________
 
Name __________________________________
         (Print)
 
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017)
BICYCLES
§ 72.20 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle except those provisions which can have no
application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(See 625 ILCS 5/11-206) (Prior Code, § 24-2-7)
§ 72.21 LAMPS, OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department which shall be visible from all distances of 100 feet to 600
feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on
a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use, any
siren upon a bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector or conforming to specifications
prescribed by the state on each pedal, visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle provided. The requirements of
this division (E) may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least
three-sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate
as clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or
rims of such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same color on
both the front and rear tire or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to
specifications prescribed by the state.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1507) (Prior Code, § 24-2-8) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Operating a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on village
streets is a privilege and not a right. Any person who has a permit to operate
a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on village streets and is found to have
violated §§
72.01 through
72.06 may have his or her permit suspended or revoked by from the Chief of
Police, the highest ranking police officer or his or her designee, or, if no
police officer is employed by the village at that time, then the Village
President. Decisions of from the Chief of Police, the highest ranking police
officer or his or her designee, or, if no police officer is employed by the
village at that time, then the Village President shall only be reversed or
modified by a majority vote of the Village Board.
      (2)   Anyone found to operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on
village streets, operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle within the
village in an area where golf carts or utility terrain vehicles are not
allowed, or to operate a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle that has not been
approved by the village for travel on village streets shall be subject to a
$150 fine for the first violation, a $250 fine for a second violation within a
365-day period, and a $500 fine for a third violation within a 365-day period.
The Village Attorney shall have the authority to bring a complaint against an
individual violating §§
72.01 through
72.06 to recover the aforementioned fines and to seek an injunction against
further violations of §§
72.01 through
72.06.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, anyone found to operate a golf cart
or utility terrain vehicle on village streets in violation of any other
provision of §§
72.01 through
72.06 shall be subject to a $75 fine for the first violation, a $150 fine for a
second violation within a 365-day period, and a $500 fine for a third violation
within a 365-day period. The Village Attorney shall have the authority to bring
a complaint against an individual violating §§
72.01 through
72.06 to recover the aforementioned fines and to seek an injunction against
further violations of §§
72.01 through
72.06.
      (4)   Any person in possession of or consuming alcoholic beverages on or
in a golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on village streets, in addition to
other penalties which may be available under the laws of state or other parts
of §§
72.01 through
72.06, shall be subjected to revocation of his or her permit to operate a golf
cart or utility terrain vehicle on village streets.
      (5)   If a person driving or in control of a golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle on village streets refuses to submit to or submits to a test or
analysis of the person’s blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance that
discloses an alcohol concentration of more than 0.00 grams of alcohol per 100
milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath, in addition
to other penalties which may be available under the laws of the state or other
parts of §§
72.01 through
72.06, shall be subjected to revocation of his or her permit to operate a golf
cart or utility terrain vehicle on village streets.
      (6)   Any person receiving a citation under §§
72.01 through
72.06 shall pay any monetary fine provided in this section at the Village
Clerk’s office within 14 days from the date of the citation. If any monetary
penalty is not paid within that 14-day period, the Police Department is
authorized to file a complaint alleging the violation of §§
72.01 through
72.06 and issue a notice to appear requiring the offender to appear in the
County Circuit Court to answer to the charge.
   (C)   Any person charged with a violation of §
72.21 shall pay a fine of $1 for the first offense and for a similar charge
during the same year a fine of $5.
(Prior Code, § 24-2-8)
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 12-11-2017)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Commercial traffic prohibited
      
II.   Stop streets
      
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. COMMERCIAL TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No through commercial traffic shall be allowed on Old Bunkum Road for the
purpose of preventing the through commercial traffic from using Old Bunkum Road
in such a manner as to create a traffic hazard to pedestrians, other traffic,
personal property, or real property. This prohibition does not apply to private
vehicles or to commercial vehicles used for services and deliveries at a
location on Old Bunkum Road.
(Prior Code, § 24-6-11) (Ord. 1064, passed 8-6-2008; Ord. 1077, passed 12-17-
2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS.
 
Street          At          Ord. No. Date Passed
Livingston Ave. Spangle Rd. 2024-2   2-8-2023
 
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street                               Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
North Second St. and Livingston Ave. 15          2024-10  9-12-2024
 
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Handicapped parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
Street Side Location
Street Side            Location
Cora Ave. (South)      From 20 feet North from the South end of Cora Ave.
Livingston Ave. (East) Between Livingston Ave. and St. L[Missing Text]
Livingston Ave. (East) From in front of Lots 190 through 193 (#[Missing Text]
Livingston Ave. (West) From Fulton St. to Sarah St. (#95-3)
Maple St. (South)      Between Livingston Ave. and St. L[Missing Text] (#07-1)
Park St.            Both sides of street
Sarah St. (South)      From Livingston Ave. and Fultson St.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24) (Ord. 2020-5, passed 9-10-2020; Ord. 2024-3, passed 2-
8-2023)
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAPPED PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §§
70.20 through
70.22, the following streets and areas are hereby established as handicapped
parking spaces, to-wit:
 
Street/Lot         Location
Second St. (North) 413 S. Second St. (#99-2)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 24)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
90.001   Regulation
   
90.002   Nuisance defined
   
90.003   Abatement procedures
   
90.004   Nuisance violation form
Weeds, Noxious Vegetation
   
90.015   Definition
   
90.016   Height
   
90.017   Notice
   
90.018   Service of notice
   
90.019   Abatement
   
90.020   Lien
   
90.021   Payment
   
90.022   Foreclosure of lien
   
90.023   Unlawful weed growth form
Garbage, Debris
   
90.035   Accumulation prohibited
   
90.036   Notice to person
   
90.037   Service of notice
   
90.038   Abatement
   
90.039   Lien
   
90.040   Payment
   
90.041   Foreclosure of lien
   
90.042   Unlawful garbage, debris form
Storage of Junked Vehicles
   
90.055   Definitions
   
90.056   Declaration of nuisance
   
90.057   Liability
   
90.058   Notification by village
   
90.059   Notice to abate
   
90.060   Equitable remedy
   
90.061   Sale at auction
   
90.062   Exception
Abandoned, Lost, Stolen, Unclaimed Vehicles
   
90.075   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
90.076   Notification to law enforcement agencies
   
90.077   Removal of motor vehicles, other vehicles; towing, hauling away
   
90.078   Police tows; reports, release of vehicles, payment
   
90.079   Record searches for unknown owner
   
90.080   Identifying, tracing of vehicle
   
90.081   Reclaimed vehicles; expenses
   
90.082   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.083   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice
   
90.084   Disposal of hazardous, dilapidated motor vehicles
   
90.085   Collection of unpaid charges
   
90.086   Police records for disposed vehicle
   
90.087   Public sale proceeds; disposition of
   
90.088   Liability of law enforcement officers
   
90.089   Inoperable vehicle form
Building as Nuisance
   
90.100   Building condition; nuisance
   
90.101   Time limit
   
90.102   Notification
   
90.103   Dangerous, unsafe building defined
   
90.104   Standards for repair, vacation, demolition
   
90.105   Dangerous, unsafe buildings
   
90.106   Duties of the attorney
   
90.107   Liens
   
90.108   Dangerous, unsafe building form
Open Burning
   
90.120   Definitions
   
90.121   Burning prohibited
   
90.122   Restrictions on burning of landscape waste
   
90.123   Permitted burning
   
90.124   Legally set fires
   
90.125   Other activities
   
90.126   Permits
   
90.127   Application for permits
   
90.128   Requirement for permit
   
90.129   Length of permit
   
90.130   Revocation
   
90.131   Revision
Noise Pollution
   
90.145   Definition
   
90.146   Noise prohibited
   
90.147   Declared nuisances
Camping on Public Property
   
90.160   Purpose
   
90.161   Definitions
   
90.162   Unlawful camping or storage of personal property in public places
   
90.163   Enforcement; warnings; removal and confiscation of debris and personal
property
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Garbage and debris, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13
   Weeds, see 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7
NUISANCES
§ 90.001 REGULATION.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain, or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the village or within the police jurisdiction
of the village.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-1) (Ord. 94-1, passed 4-11-1994) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.002 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   (A)   Generally. A public nuisance is a thing, act, occupation, condition,
or use of property which shall continue for such length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render danger for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way.
   (B)   Public nuisances effecting health. The following acts, emissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby specifically declared to be public
health nuisances, but shall not be construed to exclude other health nuisances
coming within the definition of division (A) above:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of [Missing Text]
      (3)   All   stagnant water in which mosquitoes flies or other disease-
carrying insects may multiply; or
      (4)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash, or industrial dust within the village limits in such quantities as to
endanger the health of persons or ordinary sensibilities, or to threaten or
cause substantial injury to property;
      (5)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, creamery, or industrial wastes or other substances;
      (6)   Any use of property substances or things within the village
emitting or causing any fowl, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or
disagreeable odors or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical senses of
ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure, or inconvenience the health
of any appreciable number of persons within the village, not including the
reasonable use to commercial fertilizer normally used for home gardening;
      (7)   Any obstruction in or across any water course, drainage ditch, or
ravine; or
      (8)   Any barn, cow stable, stable, chicken coop, shed, pan, cellar,
vault, drain, pool, sewer, or sink which is kept in a foul, offensive,
nauseous, or filthy condition.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-2) (Ord. 94-1, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 90.003 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief or other officer appointed by
the village to serve notice in writing, upon the owner, occupant, agent, or
person in possession or control of any lot, building, or premises in or upon
which any nuisance may be found, or who may be the owner or the cause of any
such nuisance, requiring him or her to abate the nuisance within 15 days or
such other reasonable time. It shall not be necessary in any case for the
village official to specify in the notice the manner in which any nuisance
shall be abated unless deemed necessary to do so.
   (B)   If the person notified to abate the nuisance fails to do so in the
time required, he or she shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100, and
shall be responsible for all costs of abating and enforcing this subchapter as
outlined below.
   (C)   If a nuisance is not abated within the time required by the notice, as
provided above, the Police Chief or other officer appointed by the village
shall proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. The expense of such
abatement shall be collected from the person who may have created, continued,
or suffered such nuisance to exist, in addition to any penalty or fine.
   (D)   Whenever any nuisance shall be found on any premises within the
village, the Police Chief or other officer appointed by the village is hereby
authorized in his or her discretion to cause the same to be summarily abated in
such manner as he or she may direct.
   (E)   The reasonable cost of the abatement of any nuisance by the Police
Chief or other officer appointed by the village shall become a lien upon the
real estate affected, superior to any other liens and encumbrances except tax
liens; provided, that within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred
the village, or person performing the service by authority of the village, in
his, her, or its own name, file notice of lien in the office of Recorder of
Deeds of the county. Upon payment of the costs and expenses of abatement,
including attorney’s fees and filing fees, by the owner of or persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed and
the release may be filed or recorded in the office of Recorder of Deeds of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 25-1-3) (Ord. 94-1, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 90.004 NUISANCE VIOLATION FORM.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   NUISANCE VIOLATION
TO: __________________
______________________
______________________
   You are hereby notified that the Police Chief or his representatives has determined that the property owned by you (and/or occupied by you, as the case may be) located at ___________________________ located
within the Municipality contains an unlawful nuisance(s) as defined by §
90.001 of the Revised Code of Ordinances as follows:
_________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________ ______
   You are required pursuant to §
90.003 to abate and remove any nuisance(s) within five (5) days from the date of this notice as follows:
_________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________ _______
   If you wish to appeal this notice, then the appeal shall be made to the Village Hall by: ___________________.
   If the nuisance is not abated by the date prescribed and/or if no request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, this Police Chief or his representative will abate the nuisance and assess the costs
against the property and/or impose a fine as provided by the Revised Code of Ordinances,
Chapter 90; §§
90.001 through
90.003, and §
10.99.
Dated this ______ day of _____________,  _.                                                                                                         
                              POLICE CHIEF
NOTE:   The penalty for failure to abate said nuisance(s) may be as high as $500.00 per day per violation.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 25)
WEEDS, NOXIOUS VEGETATION
§ 90.015 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Burdock, ragweed
(giant), ragweed (common), thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common
milk weed, wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lambsquarter,
wild lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all varieties), poison hemlock, wild
hemp, and Johnson grass, and all other noxious weeds as defined by the statutes
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-1)
§ 90.016 HEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass, or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers, cultivated vegetable gardens, or other ornamental
plants to grow to height exceeding eight inches anywhere in the village. Any
such plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a
nuisance. This shall not include a cultivated vegetable garden.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-2) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017 NOTICE.
   The Police Department or any other person so designated by the Mayor or
Village Board may issue a written notice for removal of weeds or grass. Such
weeds or grass shall be cut by the owner or occupant within five days after
such notice has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-3)
§ 90.018 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of the notice provided for herein may be effected by handing the
same to the owner, occupant, or lessee of the premises, or to any member of his
or her household of the age of 15 years or older found on the premises or by
mailing such notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided,
that if the premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained,
then the notice shall be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-4)
§ 90.019 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate and such expense shall be charged and paid by such
owner or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-5)
§ 90.020 LIEN.
   Charges for such weed or grass removal shall be a lien upon the premises. A
bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service
shall be presented to the owner. If this bill is not paid within 30 days of
submission of the bill, a notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof
incurred by the village shall be recorded in the following manner:
   (A)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
   (B)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
   (C)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village, and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-6)
§ 90.021 PAYMENT.
   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if
his or her address is known. Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in
the same manner as filing notice of the lien. All lien and release filing fees
shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-7)
§ 90.022 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lieu for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be sold for
non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after the
lien is in effect for 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 25-2-8)
§ 90.023 UNLAWFUL WEED GROWTH FORM.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   NOTICE
   UNLAWFUL WEED GROWTH
TO: _______________________
___________________________
___________________________
You are hereby notified that ________________________ has determined that property
owned by you (and/or occupied by you, as the case may be) at __________________ ,
located within the Village Limits contains unlawful weed growth as defined by
Chapter 90, §§
90.015 through
90.022, of the Revised Code of Ordinances.
   You are required to remove all growth within five (5) days from the date of this
Notice.
   If you refuse or neglect to remove such growth, the authorities of this
Municipality may provide for the removal thereof. The cost of such growth removal
shall be paid by you.
                              _____________________________
                                 POLICE CHIEF
Dated this ____ day of ______, ____
NOTE:      The penalty for failure to abate said nuisance(s) may be as high as
$500.00 per day per violation.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 25)
GARBAGE, DEBRIS
§ 90.035 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall permit any garbage or trash to accumulate on his or
her premises or private property.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful for
the owner or occupant of real estate to refuse or neglect to remove the garbage
or debris.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-1) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036 NOTICE TO PERSON.
   (A)   The Mayor, Chief of Police, or the Mayor’s designated representative
may issue a written notice for removal of garbage or debris.
   (B)   Such garbage or debris shall be removed by the owner or occupant
within five days after such notice has been duly served.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-2)
§ 90.037 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Service of notice provided for herein may be effected by handing of the same
to the owner, occupant, lessee of the premises, or to any member of his or her
household of the age of 15 or older found on the premises or by mailing such
notice to the last known residence address of the owner; provided, that if the
premises are unoccupied and the owner’s address cannot be obtained, then the
notice may be served by posting the same upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-3)
§ 90.038 ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within five days, the
village may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense
of the abatement and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner or
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-4)
§ 90.039 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
   (B)   A bill representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the
service shall be presented to the owner.
   (C)   If this bill is not paid within 30 days of submission of the bill, a
notice of lien of the cost and expenses thereof incurred by the village shall
be recorded in the following manner:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-5)
§ 90.040 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the premises
if his or her address is known.
   (B)   Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in whose name the
lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner
as filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-6)
§ 90.041 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-
payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the
charge after deducting costs as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens.
   (B)   Such foreclosure shall be in the name of the village after the lien is
in effect for 60 days.
   (C)   Suit to foreclose the lien shall be commenced within two years after
the date of filing notice of the lien.
(Prior Code, § 25-3-7)
§ 90.042 UNLAWFUL GARBAGE, DEBRIS FORM.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   NOTICE
   UNLAWFUL GARBAGE AND/OR DEBRIS
 
TO: ___________________
_______________________
_______________________
 
   You are hereby notified that the ________________________________________ has
determined that property owned by you (and/or occupied by you, as the case may be)
located at ___________________, located within the Village Limits contains garbage
and/or debris as defined by
Chapter 90, §§
90.035 through
90.041, of the Revised Code of Ordinances.
   You are required to remove all such material within five (5) days from the date
of this Notice.
   If you refuse or neglect to remove such garbage and/or debris, the corporate
authorities of this Municipality may provide for the removal thereof. The cost of
the garbage and/or debris removal shall be paid by you.
 
                                          __________________________________
                                          POLICE CHIEF
 
Dated this ____________ day of ____, __
 
NOTE:      The penalty for failure to abate said nuisance(s) may be as high as
$500.00 per day per violation.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 25)
STORAGE OF JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 90.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   JUNKED VEHICLES. Any vehicles, as defined herein, including any recreational
vehicle and equipment, farm, or other machinery, and which, because of one of
the following characteristics, is deemed to constitute a threat to the public
health and safety:
      (1)   Any vehicle not licensed or insured for the current year as
required by law;
      (2)   Any vehicle which has become the habitat of rats, mice, snakes, or
any other vermin or insects;
      (3)   Any vehicle which is not ready to lawfully drive on public ways and
which contains gasoline or other flammable fuel;
      (4)   Any vehicle with a broken or cracked windshield, window, headlight,
taillight, or other exposed broken or cracked glass; or
      (5)   Any other vehicle which would, if driven on public ways, constitute
a serious threat to the public health and safety of the citizens of the
village.
   STORAGE. The leaving of a vehicle upon private property for more than one
month.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by a power, other than human power, designed to
travel on the ground or upon the roads by the use of wheels, treads, runners,
or slides, to transport persons or property, or to pull machinery, and
includes, but is not limited to, all automobiles, trucks, trailers,
motorcycles, tractors, and all trailers, wagons, or other machinery designed to
be pulled by such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-1) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999; Ord. 2021-8, passed 12-
9-2021)
§ 90.056 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that the storage of junked vehicles within the village
limits, unless excepted by §
90.062 hereof, constitutes a threat to the health and safety of the citizens of
the village, and is hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-2) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
§ 90.057 LIABILITY.
   If any junked vehicle is stored upon private property in violation of this
section, the owner of such vehicle shall be prima facie liable for such
violation. In the absence of any known or ascertainable owner of such vehicle,
the owner of the property upon which such vehicle or machinery is stored shall
be prima facie liable for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-3) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
§ 90.058 NOTIFICATION BY VILLAGE.
   Upon the discovery of any junked vehicle store upon private property within
the village limits, a police officer or other agent appointed by the Mayor
shall, within five days, notify, in writing, the owner of such vehicle or, in
the absence of any known or ascertainable owner, the owner of the property upon
which it is stored that:
   (A)   The vehicle constitutes a nuisance under the provisions of this
section;
   (B)   The owner must remove or repair the vehicle in accordance with the
terms of §
90.059 hereof;
   (C)   The failure to remove or repair the vehicle will be sufficient cause
for its removal by the village under the terms of this section; and
   (D)   The continued failure of the owner to remove or repair may also
subject him or her to the penalty provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-4) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
§ 90.059 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   No owner of a junked vehicle, which violates any of the provisions of this
subchapter, or in the absence of any known or ascertainable owner, no owner of
the property upon which it is stored, shall, within ten days after receipt of
written notice from a police officer or other agent appointed by the Mayor,
fail to remove the vehicle to an auto salvage yard or junk yard, or to a proper
place outside the village, or repair the defects which caused such vehicle to
violate the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-5) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
§ 90.060 EQUITABLE REMEDY.
   If the owner of a junked vehicle, or in the absence of any known or
ascertainable owner, the owner of the property upon which it is stored, fails
to remove or repair the vehicle in accordance with the terms of this
subchapter, a police officer or other agent appointed by the Mayor, or his or
her duly-delegated agent, shall abate such nuisance by causing the vehicle to
be towed or transported to a designated storage place or depository, as
determined by the village, and the cost of the towing, transportation, and
storage shall be charged to the owner of the vehicle, or in the absence of any
known or ascertainable owner, to the owner of the property upon which it is
stored. Such remedy shall be in addition to the penalty provided in §
90.999(B).
(Prior Code, § 25-4-6) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
§ 90.061 SALE AT AUCTION.
   All junked vehicles impounded by a police officer or other agent appointed
by the Mayor shall be sold at a public auction, the time and place of which
shall be duly published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village, not less than 15 days before the auction. All revenues derived from
the sale of junked vehicles under this subchapter shall accrue to the village.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-7) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
§ 90.062 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to junked vehicles stored
within an enclosure eight feet high, a locked garage, or on property which is
zoned for a use that permits the storage of such vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-8) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999)
ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN, UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
§ 90.075 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway in the
village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth under §
90.999.
   (B)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or public
properly, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in the
village is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned
vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property shall
be authorized for removal by the village after a waiting period of seven days
or more, or may be removed immediately if determined to be a hazardous
dilapidated motor vehicle under 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1. A violation of division
(A) above or this division (B) is subject to penalties as set forth under §
90.999.
   (C)   A towing service may begin to process an unclaimed vehicle as
abandoned by requesting a record search by the Secretary of State up to ten
days after the date of the tow, or any later date acceptable to the Secretary
of State. This division (C) shall not apply to vehicles towed by order or
authorization of the village or a law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-1) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-201
§ 90.076 NOTIFICATION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in the village, not the owner of
the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the municipal police when the
vehicle is within the corporate limits of any village having a duly authorized
police department, or the State Police or the County Sheriff when the vehicle
is outside the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notification, the municipal police will authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen,
or unclaimed vehicle.
   (C)   The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, and maintain a record of the tow as set forth in 625 ILCS 5/4-204 for
law enforcement agencies, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any
other person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of
as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-2) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-202
§ 90.077 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES, OTHER VEHICLES; TOWING, HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned on a highway in an urban district for ten
hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by a law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
   (B)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway other than
a toll highway, interstate highway, or expressway, outside of an urban district
for 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by a
law enforcement agency having jurisdiction.
   (C)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially
dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in
relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to
the highway by a towing service may be authorized by a law enforcement agency
having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-3) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 90.078 POLICE TOWS; REPORTS, RELEASE OF VEHICLES, PAYMENT.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided in §§
90.076 or
90.077:
   (A)   The authorization, any hold order, and any release shall be in
writing, or confirmed in writing, with a copy given to the towing service;
   (B)   The police headquarters or office of the law officer authorizing the
towing shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series
name, body style, vehicle identification number, license plate year and number
and registration sticker year, and number displayed on the vehicle. The record
shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location
towed to, reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow;
   (C)   (1)   The owner, operator, or other legally entitled person shall be
responsible to the towing service for payment of applicable removal, towing,
storage, and processing charges and collection costs associated with a vehicle
towed or held under order or authorization of the law enforcement agency;
      (2)   If a vehicle towed or held under order or authorization of a law
enforcement agency is seized by the ordering or authorizing agency or any other
law enforcement or governmental agency and sold, any unpaid removal, towing,
storage, and processing charges and collection costs shall be paid to the
towing service from the proceeds of the sale;
      (3)   If applicable law provides that the proceeds are to be paid into
the treasury of the appropriate civil jurisdiction, then any unpaid removal,
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs shall be paid to
the towing service from the treasury of the civil jurisdiction; and
      (4)   That payment shall not, however, exceed the amount of proceeds from
the sale, with the balance to be paid by the owner, operator, or other legally
entitled person.
   (D)   Upon delivery of a written release order tn the towing service, a
vehicle subject to a hold order shall be released to the owner, operator, or
other legally entitled person upon proof of ownership or other entitlement and
upon payment of applicable removal, towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-4) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-204
§ 90.079 RECORD SEARCHES FOR UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When a law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of a vehicle
does not know the identity of the registered owner, lien holder, or other
legally entitled person, that law enforcement agency will cause the vehicle
registration records of the state to be searched by the Secretary of State for
the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
   (B)   (1)   The law enforcement agency authorizing the impounding of a
vehicle will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the State Police to be
searched by a directed communication to the State Police for stolen or wanted
information on the vehicle. When the State Police files are searched with
negative results, the information contained in the National Crime Information
Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police.
      (2)   The information determined from these record searches will be
returned to the requesting law enforcement agency for that agency’s use in
sending a notification by certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder,
and other legally-entitled persons advising where the vehicle is held,
requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale information.
      (3)   Notification shall be sent no later than ten business days after
the date the law enforcement agency impounds or authorizes the impounding of a
vehicle, provided that if the law enforcement agency is unable to determine the
identity of the registered owner, lien holder, or other person legally entitled
to ownership of the impounded vehicle within a ten business day period after
impoundment, then notification shall be sent no later than two days after the
date the identity of the registered owner, lien holder, or other person legally
entitled to ownership of the impounded vehicle is determined.
      (4)   Exceptions to a notification by certified mail to the registered
owner, lien holder, and other legally entitled persons are set forth in 625
ILCS 5/4-209.
   (C)   (1)   When ownership information is needed for a towing service to
give notification as required under this subchapter, the towing service may
cause the vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by the
Secretary of State.
      (2)   The written request of a towing service, in the form and containing
the information prescribed by the Secretary of State by rule, may be
transmitted to the Secretary of State in person, by U.S. Mail or other delivery
service, by facsimile transmission, or by other means the Secretary of State
deems acceptable.
      (3)   The Secretary of State shall provide the required information or a
statement that the information was not found in the vehicle registration
records of the state, by U.S. Mail or other delivery service, facsimile
transmission, as requested by the towing service, or by other means acceptable
to the Secretary of State.
   (D)   The Secretary of State may prescribe standards and procedures for
submission of requests for record searches and replies via computer link.
   (E)   (1)   Fees for services provided under this section shall be in
amounts prescribed by the Secretary of State under 625 ILCS 5/3-821.1.
      (2)   Payment may be made by the towing service using cash, any commonly
accepted credit card, or any other means of payment deemed acceptable by the
Secretary of State.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-5) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-205
§ 90.080 IDENTIFYING, TRACING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   When the registered owner, lien holder, or other person legally
entitled to the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle
shall notify the State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle owner
or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   The information obtained by the State Police will be immediately
forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the vehicle for
notification purposes as set forth in §
90.079.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-6) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-206
§ 90.081 RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES.
   (A)   Any time before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as
provided in §
90.082, the owner, lien holder, or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the law enforcement agency
having custody of the vehicle proof of ownership or proof of the right to
possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be released to the owner, lien holder, or other
person under this section until all towing, storage, and processing charges
have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-7) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-207
§ 90.082 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle seven
years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lien holder,
or other legally entitled person for a period of 30 days after notice has been
given as provided in §§
90.079 and
90.080, the law enforcement agency or towing service having possession of the
vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public auction to a person licensed as an
automotive parts recyler, rebuilder, or scrap processor under 625 ILCS 5/ or
the towing operator which towed the vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded.
         (b)   At least ten days prior to the sale, the law enforcement agency
where the vehicle is impounded, or the towing service where the vehicle is
impounded, shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled
persons.
         (c)   Notice as provided in §§
90.079 and
90.080 shall state the time and place of sale and shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled persons to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   If an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle displays dealer
plates, notice under this section and §
90.083 shall be sent to both the dealer and the registered owner, lien holder,
or other legally entitled persons.
   (C)   In those instances where the certified notification specified in §§
90.079 and
90.080 has been returned by the postal authorities to the law enforcement
agency or towing service, the sending of a second certified notice will not be
required.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-8) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-208
§ 90.083 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner, lien holder, or
other person legally entitled persons of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed
vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided for in this subchapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for in §
90.082 without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
   (B)   Old car.
      (1)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this subchapter, or when any such vehicle is towed at
the request or with the consent of the owner or operator and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody or storage for a minimum of ten days for
the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner, lien holder,
or other legally entitled persons and contacting the registered owner, lien
holder, or other legally entitled persons by the U.S. Mail, public service, or
in person for a determination of disposition, and an examination of the State
Police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
      (2)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, lien holder,
or other legally entitled persons, the vehicle may be disposed of in either of
the following ways:
         (a)   The law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will authorize
the disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage; or
         (b)   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner provided
in §
90.082, provided that the section shall not apply to vehicles towed by order or
authorization of a law enforcement agency.
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle, custom
vehicle, or street rod may, however, be sold to a person desiring to restore
it.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-9) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-209
§ 90.084 DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS, DILAPIDATED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any hazardous, dilapidated motor vehicle impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this section and 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1, whether impounded at a
public facility or on the property of private towing service, shall be kept in
custody for a period of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of
the registered owner or lien holder and contacting such owner or lien holder,
if known, by regular U.S. Mail.
   (B)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner or lien
holder, the law enforcement agency having jurisdiction will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-10) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/4-209.1
§ 90.085 COLLECTION OF UNPAID CHARGES.
   In an action to collect towing, storage, and processing charges that remain
unpaid after disposition of a vehicle towed or relocated under this subchapter,
the towing service may recover reasonable collection costs.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-11) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
§ 90.086 POLICE RECORDS FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a vehicle in the custody of the village or law enforcement agency is
reclaimed by the registered owner, lien holder, or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at pubic sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this subchapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by
that law enforcement agency for a period of one year from the date of the sale
or disposal.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-12) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-210
§ 90.087 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS; DISPOSITION OF.
   (A)   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits is authorized to be
towed away by a law enforcement agency having jurisdiction and disposed of as
set forth in this subchapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition
after the deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be
deposited in the treasury of the municipality.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles disposed of
or sold at public sate under 625 ILCS 5/4-107(k) of the State Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-13) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 615 ILCS 5/4-211
§ 90.088 LIABILITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer or agency, a department of municipal
government designated under 625 ILCS 5/4-212.1 or its officers or employees, or
a towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be
liable for damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former
registered owner, or his or her legal representative, lien holder, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was
processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this section.
   (B)   A towing service, and any of its officers or employees, that removes
or tows a vehicle as a result of being directed to do so by a law enforcement
officer or agency, or a department of municipal government or its officers or
employees, shall not be held to answer or be liable for injury to, loss of, or
damages to any real or personal property that occurs in the course of the
removal or towing of a vehicle or its contents on a limited access highway in a
designated incident management program that uses fast lane clearance techniques
as defined by the Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 24-7-14) (Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/4-213
§ 90.089 INOPERABLE VEHICLE FORM.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   NOTICE
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE
 
TO: __________________
______________________
______________________
 
   You are hereby notified that the Police Department has determined that an
“inoperable vehicle(s)” owned by you (and/or stored by you, as the case may be)
located at _____________________________, located within the Corporate Limits of
this municipality contains an inoperable vehicle(s), as defined by
Chapter 90, §§
90.075 through
90.088, of the Revised Code of Ordinances.
   You are required to abate and remove any and all junked vehicles within ten (10)
days from the date of this Notice.
   If you wish to appeal said notice, then the appeal shall be made to the Corporate
Authorities within five (5) days of this Notice.
 
   If you refuse or neglect to remove and dispose of the specified inoperable
vehicle(s), the Health Officer or Police Chief of this Municipality may provide for
the removal and abatement thereof. The cost of such removal and abatement shall be
paid by you.
 
                                                ____________________________
                                                POLICE CHIEF
 
Dated this _______ day of ____________, ____.
 
NOTE:      The penalty for failure to abate said nuisance(s) may be as high as
$500.00 per day per violation.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 25)
BUILDING AS NUISANCE
§ 90.100 BUILDING CONDITION; NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Building Inspector or his or her designated representative shall
report to the Village Board when any building in the village is in a dangerous
condition and constitutes a nuisance.
   (B)   Hereinafter, all references to Building Inspector shall include “his
or her designated representative.”
(Prior Code, § 25-5-1)
§ 90.101 TIME LIMIT.
   The owner of such building shall repair or alter it so as to make it safe
within 30 days from the time the notice is served upon him or her in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-2) (Ord. 2001-, passed 9-19-2001)
§ 90.102 NOTIFICATION.
   The Building Inspector, with the approval of the Village Board, shall place
a notice on all dangerous and unsafe buildings, which notice shall read as
follows:
 
“This building has been found to be a dangerous and unsafe building by the
Building Inspector. This notice shall remain on this building until it is
repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been
given the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent of this building, or
person or persons in whose name or names such building was last assessed; and
all other persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land
records of the County Recorder of Deeds. It is unlawful to remove this notice
until such notice is complied with.”
 
(Prior Code, § 25-5-3)
§ 90.103 DANGEROUS, UNSAFE BUILDING DEFINED.
   All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed dangerous and unsafe buildings:
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 31% or more of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs
or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals, or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the village;
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary, or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities so essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to cause injury to the health, morals, safety, or
general welfare of those living therein;
   (F)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of human
beings who live or may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having sufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other means
of communication;
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property;
   (I)   Those which, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of the people of
the village;
   (J)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the Building
Code of the village, or any provision of the Fire Prevention Code, or any other
ordinances of the village;
   (K)   Those vacant buildings with unguarded openings shall be deemed to
constitute a fire hazard and to be unsafe within the provisions of this
subchapter; and
   (L)   Those buildings which are uncompleted or abandoned.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-4)
§ 90.104 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector in ordering repair,
vacation, or demolition.
   (A)   If the dangerous and unsafe building is in such condition as to make
it dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its
occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (B)   If the dangerous and unsafe building can reasonably be repaired so
that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it
shall be ordered repaired.
   (C)   (1)   In any case where a dangerous and unsafe building is 50% damaged
or decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be
demolished, and in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
demolished.
      (2)   In all cases where a dangerous and unsafe building is a fire hazard
existing or erected in violation of the terms of this subchapter, or any
ordinance of the village, or statute of the state, it shall be demolished.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-5)
Cross-reference:
   Non-conforming uses, see §§
156.270 through
156.275
§ 90.105 DANGEROUS, UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   All dangerous and unsafe buildings within the terms of this subchapter are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired, vacated, or
demolished as hereinbefore or hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-6)
§ 90.106 DUTIES OF THE ATTORNEY.
   The Village Attorney shall apply to the Circuit Court for an order
authorizing the demolition, repair, or vacation of dangerous and unsafe
buildings or uncompleted or abandoned buildings when notices have not been
complied with and when requested to do so by the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 25-5-7)
§ 90.107 LIENS.
   (A)   The cost of repair, demolition, vacation, or enclosure shall be
recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and shall be a lien
thereon, which lien shall be subordinate to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances; provided that, within 60 days after said cost and expense is
incurred, the village or person performing the service by authority of the
village, in his, her, or its own names, shall file notices of lien in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds. The notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
therefor;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3) The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
   (B)   (1)   Upon payment of said cost and expense by the owner of or persons
interested in said property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name(s) the lien has been filed
and said release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of
lien.
      (2)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case
of mortgages or mechanics of lien.
      (3)   Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within three years
after the date of filing notice of lien.
(65 ILCS 5/11-31-1) (Prior Code, § 25-5-8)
§ 90.108 DANGEROUS, UNSAFE BUILDING FORM.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   LETTER OF NOTICE
   DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDING
 
TO: __________________
______________________
______________________
 
   You, as owner(s) of the property lawfully described below, are hereby notified by
the undersigned Village that said property has upon it a building which is:
      [ ]   Dangerous and/or unsafe
      [ ]   Uncompleted and/or abandoned
 
The lawful property shall be described as
________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________________
   (legal description)
 
located at
_________________________________________________________________________________
__________
   (address)
 
   Unless such building is put into safe condition or demolished within ninety (90)
days of the receipt of this notice, the Village shall apply to the Circuit Court for
an order authorizing such action to be taken by the Village with respect to the
above described building. Any costs incurred by the Village to restore the building
to a safe condition or to demolish the building shall be recovered from the owner(s)
of the above described property pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.
 
Dated at _________________, this ______________
day of _____________, ___.
 
                                             _____________________________
                                             VILLAGE CLERK
 
NOTE:      The penalty for failure to abate said nuisance(s) may be as high as
$500.00 per day per violation.
 
 
 
(SEAL)
 
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 25)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and crop residues
but excluding landscape waste.
   GARBAGE or HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food or food products, including
plastic containers.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and
agricultural waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under § 9(b) of the
Environmental Protection Act of the state, being 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-1) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.121 BURNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or allow open burning of agricultural waste,
household trash, or garbage.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-2) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.122 RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING OF LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   The open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted only on the following
conditions:
   (A)   Landscape waste shall be burned on the premises on which such waste is
generated;
   (B)   Landscape waste shall be burned only when atmospheric conditions shall
readily dissipate contaminants;
   (C)   Landscape waste may be burned only if such burning does not create a
visibility hazard on roadways, walkways, or railroad tracks;
   (D)   Open burning of landscape waste may only take place during daylight
hours with a person over 18 years of age in attendance during the entire period
of burning;
   (E)   No open burning of landscape waste shall be permitted on any streets
or roadways;
   (F)   No open burning shall occur during periods of time when the Fire Chief
or the Chief of Police have determined that atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous and dangerous; and
   (G)   All open burning shall occur between daylight to dusk; provided,
however, all fires shall be extinguished by sunset.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-3) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975; Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-10-
2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.123 PERMITTED BURNING.
   The open burning of landscape waste is permitted, but only:
   (A)   On the premises on which such waste is generated;
   (B)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants, such
as not to cause a nuisance or health hazard;
   (C)   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on any village
street or railroad; and
   (D)   Between the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m., or sunset, whichever is
earlier, Monday through Friday and shall be permitted between the hours of
sunrise and sunset on Saturday and Sunday.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-4) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975; Ord. 2010-7, passed 11-15-
2010)
§ 90.124 LEGALLY SET FIRES.
   Open burning shall be allowed when the setting of fires to combat or limit
existing fires when reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible
government official.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-5) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.125 OTHER ACTIVITIES.
   Other activities concerning open burning shall be small open flames for
heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares, and the
like.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-7) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.126 PERMITS.
   Open burning for legitimate purposes such as for instruction in methods of
firefighting, flares, signals, and the like may be conducted only after a
permit is obtained from the Village Board and the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-8) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.127 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a permit shall be in such form and shall contain
such information as shall be required in procedures adopted by the agency.
   (B)   Such application shall contain, as a minimum, data and information
sufficient to inform the Agency with respect to:
      (1)   The exact quantities and types of material to be burned; the exact
nature and exact quantities of air contaminant emission which will result;
      (2)   The exact frequency, including date where appropriate, when such
burning will take place;
      (3)   The exact location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and the like;
      (4)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the emission
of all contaminants; the reasons why alternatives to open burning are not
available; and
      (5)   The reasons why such burning is necessary to the public interests.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-9) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.128 REQUIREMENT FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted unless the applicant proves to the
satisfaction of the village that the open burning is necessary to:
      (1)   The public interest;
      (2)   Will be conducted in such a time, place, and manner as to minimize
the emission of air contaminants; or
      (3)   Will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent properties or
the occupants thereof.
   (B)   The village may impose such conditions in the permit as may be
necessary to accomplish the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-10) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.129 LENGTH OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be valid for longer than one year.
   (B)   Applications for renewal of a permit shall be submitted to the village
at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the prior permit, and shall conform
to 35 Ill. Admin. Code 404.
   (C)   The standards for issuance of renewal permits shall be as set forth in
35 Ill. Admin. Code 404.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-11) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.130 REVOCATION.
   Violation of any of the conditions of the permit shall be grounds for
revocation of the permit by the village, as well as for other sanctions.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-12) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
§ 90.131 REVISION.
   The village may revise any permit granted pursuant to this subchapter, or
any condition contained in any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 27-9-13) (Ord. 75-3, passed 4-14-1975)
NOISE POLLUTION
§ 90.145 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, or any legal successor, representative,
agent, or agent of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-13-2022)
§ 90.146 NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued any loud, unreasonably loud, distributing,
unnecessary, or excessive noise which unreasonably interferes with the comfort,
health, or safety of others. No person shall cause or allow the emission of,
beyond the boundaries of his or her property, any sound that unreasonably
interferes with the enjoyment of life or with any lawful business or activity.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-13-2022) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.147 DECLARED NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following shall be declared a nuisance and shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For a motor vehicle operator to operate or play any radio, musical
instrument or similar device from said motor vehicle, whether the vehicle is
stationary or otherwise, in such a manner as to be plainly audible to any other
person other than the player or operator of the device at a distance of 100
feet;
      (2)   For a pedestrian to operate or play any radio, musical instrument,
or similar device in such a manner as to be plainly audible to any other person
other than the player or operator of the device at a distance of 100 feet;
      (3)   For any person to operate or play any radio, television, musical
instrument, or similar device or to produce live music, sound, or noise,
whether from a business, residence, or any other premises, in such a manner as
to be plainly audible outside of the real property boundary of such business,
residence, or other premises between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
Fridays and Saturdays and 9:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m. on Sundays, Mondays, Tuesday,
Wednesday, and Thursdays;
      (4)   For any person to keep any animal, which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person; and/or
      (5)   For any person to loan, unload, open, close, or other handling of
boxes, crates, contained building materials, garbage trucks, or similar objects
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across residential real
property boundary or any person to operate or permit the operation of any tools
or equipment used in repair, construction, drilling, lawn maintenance,
landscaping, or demolition work in such a manner that the sounds there creates
a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary at any of the
following times:
         (a)   Before 6:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. on any day of the week; or
         (b)   Before 8:00 a.m. and after 9:00 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   The village approved events, public service utilities, and services
contracted by the village are exempt from this section.
(Ord. 2022-11, passed 10-13-2022)
CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 90.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent harm to the health and safety
of the public and to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
prohibiting unauthorized camping and storage of personal property on public
property within the village, which interferes with the right of others to use
the areas for the purposes for which they were intended.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 2-8-2024)
§ 90.161 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BRIDGE. A structure, including the approaches thereto, erected in order to
afford passage over any obstruction in any public road, railroad, or other
right-of-way, or to afford passage under or over existing public roads,
railroads, or other right-of-ways.
   CAMP or CAMPING. To pitch, use, or occupy camp facilities, or to use camp
paraphernalia, or both, for the purpose of habitation. CAMP or CAMPING does not
include the use of public property or public facilities for recreational use or
for authorized public or private events that involve the use of tents, awnings,
or other structures in connection with such recreational use or authorized
public or private event.
   CAMP FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
shelters, campers, recreational vehicles, or trailers. CAMP FACILITIES do not
include tents, huts, or temporary shelters, when used temporarily in a park for
recreation or play during daylight hours when the park is open to the public.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks, blankets, mattresses, or cooking facilities and
similar equipment.
   PARK. Any publicly owned area controlled by the village or other
governmental entity for park purposes. PARK also includes all associated areas,
including parking lots for parks.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Without limitation, any real property, building, structure,
equipment, sign, shelter, vegetation, greenspace, playground, bench, trail,
picnic shelters, recreational and athletic fields, and public open space,
including all associated areas such as parking lots, controlled or owned by the
village or any other governmental agency.
   STORE or STORING. To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, or to place or leave in a location. Leaving one’s personal
property such as, without limitation, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping
bags, luggage, shopping carts, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for more
than one hour.
   STREET. Any highway, lane, road, street (including adjacent shoulders,
medians, and terrace areas), right-of-way, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, and
every way or place in the village open as a matter of right to public
pedestrian and vehicular travel.
   UNAUTHORIZED ENCAMPMENT. The collection of camp facilities, camp
paraphernalia, and/or personal property used for unauthorized camping in
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 2-8-2024)
§ 90.162 UNLAWFUL CAMPING OR STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp, or to engage in the activity of
unauthorized camping, or to store personal property, including camp facilities
or camp paraphernalia as defined in §
90.161, within the following areas:
   (A)   Any street;
   (B)   Any bridge;
   (C)   Any park;
   (D)   Any public property, improved or unimproved; or
   (E)   Any public property where camping obstructs or interferes with the
intended public use of the property.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 2-8-2024) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.163 ENFORCEMENT; WARNINGS; REMOVAL AND CONFISCATION OF DEBRIS AND PERSONAL
PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police, or their designee(s), will have primary responsibility
for the enforcement of the camping regulations herein. Nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the Police Chief, or their designee(s), from obtaining voluntary
compliance by way of warning, notice, education, or coordination with other
willing public or private entities and/or community members.
   (A)   Prior to issuing any citation pursuant to this subchapter, the
investigating officer shall provide a verbal and written warning to cease such
unlawful conduct and a verbal and written referral for possible alternatives to
their present camping practices, such as, without limitation, transportation,
shelter, and/or contact information to public or private agencies who may be
able to provide services or support. Any public or private entities who wish to
assist the Alton Police Department (“Department”) in effectively and humanely
transitioning individuals from unauthorized encampments on public property to
an environment consistent with village ordinances should contact the Department
with a description of what services they can provide and effective contact
information. The Department will develop and maintain a policy to include
procedural guidance regarding the implementation of this subchapter. The
Department shall consult relevant professional resources and engage interested
community members, service providers, or other willing public or private
entities when designing and implementing this policy. The policy shall be
published and implemented no later than six months after the passage of this
subchapter. The policy shall provide for the collection of relevant data that
shall be used to review and revise the policy every three years, or as needed.
Said revision shall be made in the same manner the policy is developed.
   (B)   Police shall exercise discretion to ensure that individuals are not
cited for violating this subchapter due only to a true personal necessity that
requires their present unauthorized camping practices. When possible, the
Department may work directly with community members, service providers, or
other willing public or private entities to determine whether a true personal
necessity exists in a particular circumstance. The Department shall provide
specific support, guidance, and contacts for officers, but it shall be evidence
that no true personal necessity exists if the individual who is camping refuses
to take advantage of proffered alternatives to their present camping practices
(which could include, in the most extreme cases, short term use of another
location more easily monitored by the police).
   (C)   Upon a determination by law enforcement that an area constitutes an
unauthorized encampment, regardless of whether an individual is cited for a
violation of this subchapter, village officials shall have the right to remove
any debris, contraband, or personal property that creates a legitimate health
and safety concern, or that creates an immediate and substantial danger to the
environment. No warning is required prior to such confiscation relating to
health and safety concerns.
   (D)   Materials confiscated pursuant to this subchapter that are unsanitary
or a danger to the health and safety of any person may be immediately disposed
of. Otherwise, the Department shall provide a 24-hour written notice prior to
confiscating property. The Department shall retain personal property
confiscated pursuant to this subchapter in a manner consistent with the
handling of other confiscated property, and must not dispose of such personal
property for a period of at least 30 calendar days, during which time the owner
may retrieve such property from the Department, pursuant to the procedure
outlined in the policy. Nothing prevents Department members from disposing of
property with the consent of the property owner. When Department members have
received consent to dispose of property, village officials shall assist
Department members when necessary.
(Ord. 2024-4, passed 2-8-2024)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates §§
90.055 through
90.062 shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or non-
compliance occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 25-4-9)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.075 or who aids and abets in that violation:
         (a)   Shall be subject to a mandatory fine of $200; and
         (b)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the
abandoned or unclaimed vehicle and pay all towing, storage, and processing
charges and collection costs pursuant to §
90.077(A) and (E).
      (2)   When a vehicle is abandoned, it shall be presumed that the last
registered owner is responsible for the abandonment and shall be liable for all
towing, storage, and processing charges and collection costs, less any amounts
realized in the disposal of the vehicle. The last registered owner’s liability
for storage fees may not exceed a maximum of 30 days’ storage fees. The
presumption established under this division (C)(2) may be rebutted by a showing
that, prior to the time of the tow:
         (a)   A report of vehicle theft was filed with respect to the vehicle;
or
         (b)   The vehicle was sold or transferred and the last registered
owner provides the towing service with the correct identity and address of the
new owner at the time of the sale or transfer.
      (3)   If the presumption established under this division (C) is rebutted,
the person responsible for theft of the vehicle or to whom the vehicle was sold
or transferred is liable for all towing, storage, and processing charges and
collection costs.
(625 ILCS 5/4-214) (Prior Code, § 24-7-15)
   (D)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.160 through
90.163 may be punishable by a fine of no more than $100. All fines under may be
satisfied by cash payment or community service.
      (2)   Any person who commits a subsequent violation of §§
90.160 through
90.163, which occurred within 30 days of a violation, may be punishable by a
fine of no more than $500. All fines may be satisfied by cash payment or
community service.
      (3)   Each occurrence of a violation of §§
90.160 through
90.163 or, in the case of a continuous violation, each day a violation occurs
or continues, may constitute a separate offense and may be punishable
separately.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 5-12-1999; Ord. 1709, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 2024-4,
passed 2-8-2024)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Injury to property
   
91.003   Manner of keeping
   
91.004   Keeping barking dogs, crying cats
   
91.005   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
91.006   Exhibiting wild or vicious animals
   
91.007   Health hazard
   
91.008   Limitation on number of dogs, cats kept
   
91.009   Animals in village
Dogs
   
91.020   Definitions
   
91.021   Dogs to be inoculated, to have tags
   
91.022   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; certificate
   
91.022   Duration of inoculation
   
91.023   Specifications for tag
   
91.024   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
91.025   Restraint of dogs
   
91.026   Impoundment of dogs running at large; unlicensed dogs; citation
   
91.027   Notice, citation to owner, keeper of impoundment
   
91.028   Obstructing poundmaster
   
91.029   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
91.030   Impoundment
   
91.031   Redemption of impounded animals
   
91.032   Village pound designated
   
91.033   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
91.034   Dangerous dog, female dog at large
   
91.035   Female dog with other dogs
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
91.050   Definitions
   
91.051   Unlawful to maintain
   
91.052   Owner’s responsibility
   
91.053   Dog permitted to leave premises
   
91.054   Injunction
   
91.055   Liability of owner; dog attacking; injuring person
   
91.056   Right of entry; inspections
Licenses
   
91.070   Definitions
   
91.071   Required; exceptions
   
91.072   Fee schedule
   
91.073   Term
   
91.074   Tag
   
91.075   Grounds for, effect of revocation; inspection authority
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Animals at large, regulation of animals, see 510 ILCS 5/24
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, other than humans, which may be affected by rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
Village Board to perform duties as assigned by the Mayor to effectuate this
chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property
of its owner and not under the control of a responsible person.
   CAT. Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DOG. Includes any canine, female as well as male dog, regardless of age.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an [Missing Text] approved by
the Department.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely collar or
harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength to
[Missing Text] or other animal under control.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in a dog or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has a dog in his or her care, or who acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him
or her.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter if he
or she is controlled by a leash; at heel beside a responsible person; within a
vehicle being driven or parked on the streets; or within the property limits of
his or her owner or keeper.
   SHADE. Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months of June
through September.
   SHELTER. A moisture-proof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog
and allow retention of body heat, made of durable material with a solid floor
raised at least two inches from the ground and with the entrance covered by a
flexible, wind-proof material. Such structure shall be provided with a
sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to provide installation and protection
against cold and dampness.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has previously attacked or bitten any
person or which has behaved in such a manner that the person who harbors said
animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of
tendencies to attack or bite persons.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake, or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx, or any other animal or any bird
of prey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(510 ILCS 5/24) (Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 91.002 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises
and break, bruise, tear up, crush, or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant,
shrub, tree, or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste products accumulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat
to be on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person
unless such person has in his or her immediate possession an appropriate device
for scooping excrement and an appropriate depository for the transmission of
excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by such
person.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to a person who is visually or
physically handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   Pens, yards, or runs. All pens, yards, runs, or other structures
wherein any animal is kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily
cleaned and kept in good repair.
   (B)   Fences. Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall
be securely constructed, shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good
repair, and shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 KEEPING BARKING DOGS, CRYING CATS.
   (A)   Harboring. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly keep or
harbor any dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps, or any cat which
habitually cries or howls to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood, or in such manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in
the neighborhood who are of ordinary sensibilities. Such dogs and cats are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions of complaint. Whenever any person shall complain to the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, howls, or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the village, the
Police Department shall notify the owner of said dog or cat that a complaint
has been received and that the person should take whatever steps are necessary
to alleviate the howling, yelping, or crying.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Cruelty to animals prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or maliciously inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture,
abuse, or cruelly beat, strike, or abuse any animal, or by an act, omission, or
neglect, cause or inflict any unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering,
injury, or death to any animal, whether such animal belongs to such person or
to another, except that reasonable force may be employed to drive away vicious
or trespassing animals. Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the County
Animal Control Facility for proper disposal.
   (B)   Food and shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any
animal to fail, refuse, or neglect to provide such animal with food, potable
water, shade, or shelter, or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any such animal
in hot, stormy, cold, or inclement weather, or to carry any such animal in or
upon any vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner. The terms used in this section
shall comply with §
91.001.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 EXHIBITING WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept on
his or her premises any wild or vicious animal as described in this chapter for
display or for exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This
section shall not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal
exhibitions, or circuses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept any
wild animal as a pet unless a permit is granted by the Department of Natural
Resources of the state.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious
animal within the village.
      (2)   Any animal which is found off the premises of its owner may be
seized by any police officer or humane officer and, upon establishment to the
satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction of the vicious character of
said animal, it may be killed by a police officer or humane officer; provided,
however, that this section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that such animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence, or other adequate means from contact with the general
public or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied
permission of the owner or occupant.
   (D)   The licensing authority may issue a temporary permit for the keeping,
care, and protection of any infant animal native to this area which has been
deemed to be homeless.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.007 HEALTH HAZARD.
   The Mayor shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the keeping of
any animal, fowl, or bird which is deemed to be a nuisance or pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 91.008 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS, CATS KEPT.
   (A)   Nuisance. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the
village for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances,
is detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms DOG and CAT shall be construed as
provided in §
91.001.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs and/or three cats within the village, with the exception that a
litter of pups, a litter of kittens, or a portion of a litter may be kept for a
period of time not exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes, or
boarding.
   (C)   Kennels. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be
located closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent
residential lot.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.009 ANIMALS IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   Certain prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall keep within
the village any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, chickens, ducks,
turkeys, geese, or other livestock.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This chapter shall not apply in areas of the village that are zoned
agricultural in nature nor shall this chapter apply to livestock brought into
the village for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
      (2)   Each residence is permitted to keep outdoors up to ten rabbits and/
or six female chickens, subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Enclosures. Each rabbit or chicken must be kept inside an
enclosure that includes access to the following:
            1.   Space. At least four-square feet of space that does not
accumulate water during rain;
            2.   Shelter and access to fresh air and light. The space provided
to each rabbit or chicken needs to include sheltered space to protect from the
elements as well as open space to receive fresh light and air;
            3.   Raised structures. Any structure built to shelter rabbits or
chickens must be raised at least 18 inches aboveground;
            4.   Protection. The parts of enclosures where rabbits or chickens
sleep must be closed to predators with wire mesh of no greater than one-inch,
solid walls, and doors that latch shut;
            5.   Food storage. Food must be stored in closed metal containers;
and
            6.   Appearance of enclosures. Enclosures are to be built in the
manner of and with materials typically found in commercially available chicken
coops. They are to be maintained in good repair and appearance.
         (b)   Care of rabbits and chickens.
            1.   Chickens and rabbits may not share the same enclosures.
            2.   Chickens and rabbits must be provided with food and fresh
water according to agricultural best practices.
            3.   Chicken and rabbit areas are to be kept clean and remain free
of smell from adjoining properties.
         (c)   Placement of rabbits and chickens. In order to keep rabbit and
chicken enclosures minimally intrusive, the following standards of placement
will be followed.
            1.   Distance from neighboring dwellings. No rabbits or chickens
shall be kept within 40 feet of an occupied dwelling of any other property.
            2.   Excluded from front yards. Animals must be confined to the
area behind the line established by the wall closest to the street (not alley)
of the occupied dwelling and extending to the edges of the property in both
directions. On corner properties, the space is further confined behind the line
established by the wall closest to the other street (not alley) and extending
to the edges of the property.
            3.   Dressing area screened. The area used for meat dressing must
be screened from view from the street and all neighboring dwellings.
   (C)   Health hazard. The Ordinance Committee shall have the power to issue
an order prohibiting that keeping of any specific animal, fowl, or bird which
is deemed to pose a health hazard to the general public.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-8-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
DOGS
§ 91.020 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall comply with §
91.001 unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 91.021 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED, TO HAVE TAGS.
   (A)   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address, and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 91.022 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; CERTIFICATE.
   The inoculation of dogs required by §
91.021(A) shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in the state. Upon performing such inoculation, such
veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate showing such fact
and shall also deliver to the owner or keeper a metallic or other suitable tag
to be attached to the collar or harness of the dog, which tag shall also
certify to the fact of the inoculation against rabies.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 91.022 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
91.021 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which
the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such period of time as may
be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 91.023 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
91.021 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 91.024 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department
or village employee, the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his
or her certificate issued under the provisions of §
91.021, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled
by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 91.025 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large, or off the premises of the
property of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as
defined in §
91.001.
(65 ILCS 5/11-20-9) (Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
§ 91.026 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Mayor to take up and
impound in such place, as may be designated and set apart for that purpose, any
dog found running at large or unlicensed in the village, contrary to any of the
provisions of this chapter or other regulations of the village.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employee(s), such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employee(s), but the employee(s) may cite the owner of such
dog to answer charges of violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any dog permitted to run at large within the village is hereby
declared to be a nuisance.
   (D)   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within five days shall
be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the poundkeeper.
   (E)   If the impounded dog does not have identification tags and is not
redeemed within three days, it shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the poundkeeper.
   (F)   The Village Board may establish a reasonable fee by motion for each
day that a dog is housed in the pound.
(510 ILCS 5/10) (Prior Code, § 3-2-8)
§ 91.027 NOTICE, CITATION TO OWNER, KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding and where the owner or keeper of such dog is disclosed
by any tax or license tag worn by it or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding the same, the designated official shall make reasonable attempts to
contact the owner, informing him or her of the impounding of his or her dog and
shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 91.028 OBSTRUCTING POUNDMASTER.
   Any person(s) who shall bring any dog into the village for the purpose of
causing the same to be impounded or any person who shall resist, hinder, or
molest the poundmaster or dogcatcher or police officer while engaged upon the
duties imposed upon them by this subchapter, or any person who shall break into
the dog pound and release or deliver any dog therefrom without having first
paid the fees herein specified, or any owner or keeper of any dog who shall
permit any dog to run at large within the corporate limits of the village, upon
conviction of any part of this subchapter shall be fined according to Title I
of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10)
§ 91.029 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   Any dog which shall have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as
to cause an abrasion of the skin shall be immediately taken, impounded, and
kept separated from other dogs for 14 days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed in such a manner. However needed as to
preserve intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately
sent to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case
such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being
taken to preserve the head intact which shall thereupon be immediately detached
and be delivered to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
   (B)   If, at the expiration of the 14 days, no symptoms of rabies have
developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the owner upon
payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by this subchapter;
provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a person shall
have previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely destroyed by the
poundkeeper. After having been notified that his or her dog has bitten or
otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall not, under any
circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely muzzled.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
§ 91.030 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Those persons charged with the duty of enforcing this subchapter may employ
any method found practical and humane in capturing and impounding any dog found
running at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-12)
§ 91.031 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   The owner of any animal impounded under this subchapter may redeem the same
by paying all the costs and charges assessed, if any, that have accrued up to
the time of making redemption and on paying the same, it shall be the duty of
the authorities to release the animal from the pound and deliver it to its
owner or certify the release thereof to any county authority having possession
of the animal. The village does hereby assess a fee of $15.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 91.032 VILLAGE POUND DESIGNATED.
   The Village Board shall designate a village pound.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-14)
§ 91.033 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES.
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub, or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-15)
§ 91.034 DANGEROUS DOG, FEMALE DOG AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any fierce or dangerous dog
or of any female dog, while in heat, to run at large within the limits of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-16) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.035 FEMALE DOG WITH OTHER DOGS.
   No person in control or possession of a female dog or permitting the same to
remain upon his or her premises shall permit any such female dog, while in
heat, to consort with any other dog or dogs in an indecent manner in any place
of public view, whether upon his or her own or any other premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-17) Penalty, see §
91.999
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 91.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed, or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
ENCLOSURE. Such ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom, and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE.
   FOUND TO BE VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   The Administrator, an Animal Control Warden, or a law enforcement
officer has conducted an investigation and made a finding in writing that the
dog is a vicious dog as defined in this section and, based on that finding, the
Administrator, an Animal Control Warden, or the Director has declared in
writing that the dog is a vicious dog; or
      (2)   The Circuit Court has found the dog to be a vicious dog as defined
in this section and has entered an order based on that finding.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into the custody of the public pound in the village or town
where the vicious dog is found.
   VICIOUS DOG.
      (1)   (a)   Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property.
         (b)   Any individual dog with a known propensity tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury, or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals.
         (c)   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristic and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness, or unprovoked
attacks upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular
manner or with special equipment.
         (d)   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation.
         (e)   Any individual dog which has been found to be a dangerous dog
upon three separate occasions.
      (2)   (a)   No dog shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks, or
menaces a trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone
who has tormented or abused it, or is a professionally trained dog for law
enforcement or guard duties.
         (b)   VICIOUS DOGS shall not be classified in a manner that is
specific as to breed.
      (3)   If a dog is found to be a VICIOUS DOG, the dog shall be subject to
enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1)
§ 91.051 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed opt of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog; or
      (2)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a
tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding three feet in length, and
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the
dog.
   (B)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the Animal Control Warden or the
police and shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for destruction by
lethal injection.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.052 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
Circuit Court in the county in which the animal was impounded within seven
working days, the dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious
dog shall not be released to the owner until the Administrator, an Animal
Control Warden, or the Director approves the enclosure as defined in this
section.
   (B)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.053 DOG PERMITTED TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   (B)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from
this section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected.
   (C)   To qualify for exemption under this section each such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with this chapter. It shall
be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to notify the Administrator of
changes of address. In the case of a sentry or guard dog, the owner shall keep
the Administrator advised of the location where such dog will be stationed. The
Administrator shall provide Police and Fire Departments with a categorized list
of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify such departments of any
address changes reported to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.054 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   The Administrator, the Village Attorney, or any citizen of the village
in which a dangerous dog or other animal exists may file a complaint to enjoin
all persons from maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and to
enjoin the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting same to leave his
or her premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control
methods.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a complaint in the Circuit Court, the court, if
satisfied that this nuisance may exist, shall grant a preliminary injunction
with bond in such amount as the court may determine enjoining the defendant
from maintaining such nuisance.
   (C)   If the existence of the nuisance is established, the owner of such dog
or other animal shall be in violation of this subchapter, and in addition the
court shall enter an order restraining the owner from maintaining such nuisance
and may order that such dog or other animal be humanely dispatched.
(510 ILCS 5/17) (Prior Code, § 3-3-5)
§ 91.055 LIABILITY OF OWNER; DOG ATTACKING; INJURING PERSON.
   If a dog, or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any
person who is peaceably conducting himself or herself in any place where he or
she may lawfully be, the owner of such dog or other animal is liable in damages
to such person for the full amount of the injury sustained.
(510 ILCS 5/16) (Prior Code, § 3-3-6)
§ 91.056 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter and
making inspections hereunder, the Administrator, or his or her authorized
representative, or any officer of the law may enter upon private premises to
apprehend a straying dog or other animal, a dangerous dog or other animal, or a
dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies.
   (B)   If, after request therefor, the owner of such dog or other animal
shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall
be in violation of this subchapter.
(510 ILCS 5/17) (Prior Code, § 3-3-7) Penalty, see §
91.999
LICENSES
§ 91.070 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall be as defined by §
91.001, unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 91.071 REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of any dog or
cat as defined in §
91.001, over three months of age and not otherwise exempt, must obtain a
license from the village offices or the Village Police Department. The Village
Clerk and the Village Police Department shall have applications for licenses
available for animal owners under this subchapter. The Village Clerk shall be
charged with maintaining all records of licenses.
   (B)   This section, however, shall not apply to the keeping of small cage
birds, gerbils, hamsters, or aquatic and amphibian animals solely as pets.
Also, this section shall not be intended to apply to animals whose owners are
temporarily non-residents within the village or to animals brought into the
village for the purpose of participating in any animal show or to a guide dog
trained for accompanying a blind, hearing impaired, or physically handicapped
person, in accordance with 510 ILCS 70/7.15, or to animals in the possession of
any person operating the village animal shelter under contract with the
village, if any.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 91.072 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Upon a showing by any applicant for a license required under this
subchapter that he or she is prepared to comply with this subchapter, a license
shall be issued following payment of the applicable fee as follows:
      (1)   For each neutered male or spayed female dog: $5;
      (2)   For each neutered male or spayed female cat: $5;
      (3)   For each unneutered male or unspayed female dog: $5;
      (4)   For each unneutered male or unspayed female cat: $5;
      (5)   For each animal of other species: $5;
      (6)   For any kennel or pet shop, covering all animals kept during the
year: $50; and
      (7)   For any commercial zoo, animal act, or similar place of exhibition
of animals, covering all animals kept: $50.
   (B)   No fee shall be required of any humane society or veterinary hospital.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 91.073 TERM.
   The license required under this subchapter shall be effective March 1
beginning 2006 and each year thereafter, and, if not revoked for cause, shall
be valid for one year from the date of issue. A new license shall be obtained
each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 91.074 TAG.
   Upon the issuing of a license to keep any animal other than those exceptions
identified in §
91.071 herein, the Village Clerk or Village Police Department shall issue to
the owner a metallic or durable plastic tag, stamped with an identifying number
and with the year of issuance and so designed that it may
conveniently be fastened to a collar or harness. Such tag shall be worn at all
times when the animal is off the premises of its owner. The village offices
shall maintain a record of the identifying numbers and shall make this record
available to the public. Licenses are not transferable from one animal to
another, and no refunds shall be made on any animal license because of death of
the animal or the owner’s leaving town before expiration of the license period.
Replacement for lost tags may be obtained at the village offices or Village
Police Department upon payment of $2.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 91.075 GROUNDS FOR, EFFECT OF REVOCATION; INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The license required under this subchapter may be revoked if the
person holding the license refuses or fails to comply with this subchapter or
any state statute governing cruelty to animals. Any person whose license is
revoked shall, within ten days thereafter, humanely dispose of all animals
being owned, kept, or harbored by such person and no part of the license fee
shall be refunded.
   (B)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any license to any owner of
animals kept for commercial purposes that the Village President or agent
designated by the Village President or Village Police Department shall be
permitted to inspect all animals and the premises where animals are kept at any
time. The Village President or agent designated by the Village President shall,
if permission for each inspection is refused, revoke the license of the
refusing owner.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6) (Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
91.070 through
91.075 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than $25
nor more than $100 for a first offense resulting in a conviction and shall be
fined $100 for each subsequent offense resulting in a conviction. Each day a
violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7)
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-13-2006)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Prohibited acts
   
92.03   Exceptions
   
92.04   Complaints
   
92.05   Notice
   
92.06   Limitation
   
92.07   Duties of Commission
   
92.08   Remedies
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village and the purpose of
this chapter to secure to all persons living or desiring to live in the village
a fair opportunity to purchase, finance, lease, rent, or occupy housing without
discrimination based upon race, religion, disability, familial status, national
origin, color, or sex.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-1) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be an unfair housing practice and unlawful for any person,
partnership, firm, or corporation:
   (A)   To make any distinction, discrimination, or restriction against any
person in the price, terms, conditions, or privileges relating to the sale,
rental, lease, occupancy, or financing of any real estate used for residential
purposes in the village or in the furnishing of any facilities or services in
connection therewith, predicated upon the race, religion, disability, familial
status, national origin, color, or sex of the actual or prospective buyer or
tenant thereof;
   (B)   To refuse to sell, lease, or rent any real estate for residential
purposes within the village because of the race, religion, disability, familial
status, national origin, color, or sex of the prospective buyer or renter;
   (C)   To represent to any person because of race, religion, disability,
familial status, national origin, color, or sex that any real estate within the
village is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is
in fact so available;
   (D)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for sale or lease residential
real estate within the village on the ground of loss of value due to the
present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person or persons of
any particular race, religion, disability, familial status, national origin,
color, or sex; and
   (E)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
any real estate within the village that indicates any preference, limitation,
or discrimination based on race, religion, disability, familial status,
national origin, color, or sex, or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to rental rooms or
units in private single-family residential dwellings if the owner (or owners)
actually occupies a portion of such dwelling as his or her living quarters and
maintains the same as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-3) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.04 COMPLAINTS.
   Any person aggrieved in any manner by any violation of any provision of this
chapter may file with the Village Clerk a written complaint setting forth his
or her grievance. Such complaint shall be under oath and signed by the
complainant, and shall state:
   (A)   The full name and address of the complainant;
   (B)   The name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
brought;
   (C)   The facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter; and
   (D)   The names and addresses of all persons believed to have knowledge of
the facts alleged in the complaint.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-4) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.05 NOTICE.
   Upon receipt of any complaint properly filed pursuant to the provisions of §
92.04, the Village Clerk shall promptly forward a copy of the same to:
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Human Relations Commission;
   (B)   The President; and
   (C)   The person against whom the complaint is brought.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-5) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.06 LIMITATION.
   Any complaint filed hereunder must be filed within 90 days from the date of
the alleged violation of the chapter or its shall be barred.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-6) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.07 DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   It shall be the duty of the Human Relations Commission to:
   (A)   Receive, acknowledge, and investigate complaints charging a violation
of this chapter;
   (B)   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, and make findings
of fact in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and with §§ 32.20
through 32.25;
   (C)   To file its written report with the Village Board upon each complaint
filed with and considered by the Commission setting forth the findings of fact
determined by the Commission; and
   (D)   To adopt, after approval by the Village Board, such rules of procedure
as may be desirable to carry out the purposes and policy of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-7) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.08 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the written report of the Commission, the Village
Board shall recommend such further action as would be appropriate under this
chapter including, but not limited to, referral of the matter to the Village
Attorney for prosecution thereof.
   (B)   The remedies provided herein for any person aggrieve by a violation of
this chapter shall not be exclusive, and any person aggrieved in any manner by
the violation of any provision of this chapter may apply, at any time, to any
court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief from such violation.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-8) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of the village code.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-9) (Ord. 1998-4, passed 8-13-1998)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS
      
112.   AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
      
113.   JUNK DEALERS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   REFUSE HAULERS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Administration
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Persons subject to license
   
110.03   Term, form of license
   
110.04   Investigations
   
110.05   Fees
   
110.06   Termination of licenses
   
110.07   Building and premises
   
110.08   Change of location
   
110.09   Location
   
110.10   Inspections
   
110.11   Appeal
   
110.12   License to be posted
   
110.13   Business application
Nuisance Businesses
   
110.25   Generally
   
110.26   Unsafe, unhealthful businesses
   
110.27   Refuse disposal
Suspension, Revocation of License, Permit
   
110.40   Nuisance
   
110.41   Hearing
   
110.42   Revocation
   
110.43   Hearing notice
   
110.44   Counsel
ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this title shall
be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   The time covered; and
      (5)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number the certificates of
registration required under the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act being 35 ILCS
120/1 et seq., Service Occupation Tax Act being 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq., and/or
Use Tax Act being 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq., if applicable. Each application shall
contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the municipal officials in the issuing of the license or permit applied for.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 110.02 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license or permit is required in this code or in any municipal
ordinance for the maintenance, operation, or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm, or corporation shall be subject to:
   (A)   The requirement if by himself, herself, or itself, or through an
agent, employee, or partner, he, she, or it is held forth as being engaged in
the business, activity, or occupation, or if he, she, or it solicits patronage
therefor actively or passively; or
   (B)   If he, she, or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business, activity, or occupation in the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 110.03 TERM, FORM OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted for longer than a one-year term, and all
licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on the last day
of the next April following their issue. Every license shall be signed by the
Mayor and attested by the Clerk under the corporate seal, and no license shall
be valid until signed and countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any person be
deemed to be licensed until the same shall have been issued to him or her in
due form.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 110.04 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Clerk, within 48 hours, shall refer
the application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such
investigation or inspection.
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding such permits and licenses as relate to the care and handling of food,
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease, and the protection of
health. If a Zoning Code is in effect, the Zoning Administrator shall make or
cause to be made any inspections which relate to compliance with the Zoning
Code and other related regulations. All other investigations, except where
otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other
officer designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Clerk shall
forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the Mayor that the matters and circumstances
relating to an application require further information before a proper
determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the Clerk for
the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified necessary and
appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory, he or she may
disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the
Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that his or her
application is disapproved and that no license or permit will be issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the application is satisfactory, he or she shall approve the application.
Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that
his or her application is approved and the license or permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 110.05 FEES.
   In the absence of provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time the application
therefor is made to the Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate
authorities. When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity
until after the expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall
be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof
during which the business or activity has been or will be conducted. Except as
otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become a part of the
Corporate Fund. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license
or permit fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee
or permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of
the license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed
establishment, business, or activity. The annual fee shall be $50 unless it is
provided for otherwise in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 110.06 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for the
municipality shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April
30 of the following year, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify all licensees of the municipality of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if annual), three weeks
prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, however, that a failure to make
such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new licensee or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 110.07 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall
be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would
involve a violation of this chapter and/or other applicable regulations of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 110.08 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided that ten days’ notice thereof is given
to the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided
further, however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of the
municipality shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 110.09 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in the
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in the municipality, a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this chapter, the existence of a single location shall be
evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory
uses shall be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel; shall be
operated and managed by the same person or owner; and shall be an establishment
with the same classification.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 110.10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of the municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any
officer or employee of the municipality who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the municipality requesting the same sufficient samples
of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in the
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take adequate sample(s) of said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of the municipality after having first presented
a warrant authorizing such entry.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11)
§ 110.11 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor regarding the denial of an
application for a business license as provided in §
110.04 or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit as provided
in §
110.42 shall have the right to appeal to the municipality. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days after notice of a denial of an
application or a revocation of a license or permit, a written statement under
oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The municipality shall
thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the
same manner as provided in §
110.41. The decision of the municipality on such appeal shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 110.12 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 110.13 BUSINESS APPLICATION.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
 
   BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
 
   APPLICATION NO. _________ ANNUAL LICENSE FEE DUE MAY 1ST: $ ________
 
   (PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT)
 
1.   Applicant’s Name: __________________ PHONE ( ) ___________
2.   Applicant’s Address
______________________________________________________________
   City ________________________________ State ______ ZIP ___________
3.   Length of resident at above address __________ years _______________ months
4.   Applicant’s Date of Birth ____/____/____ Social Security No. _________________
5.   Marital Status ______________ Name of Spouse ________________________
6.   Citizenship of Applicant
___________________________________________________________
7.   Business Name___________________________ PHONE ( )____________
8.   Business Address
_________________________________________________________________
   City________________________________ State _______ ZIP __________
9.   Length of Employment _________ years _________________ months
10.   All residences and addresses for the last three (3) years if different than
above:
   _______________________________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________________________
11.   Name and Address of employers during the last three (3) years if different
than above:
   _______________________________________________________________________
   _______________________________________________________________________
12.   List the last three (3) municipalities where applicant has carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application:
   ____________________________________________________________________________
____
13.   A description of the subject matter that will be used in the applicant’s
business:
   ________________________________________________________________________
________
14.   Has the applicant ever had a license in this municipality? [ ] Yes [ ] No
   If so, when
______________________________________________________________________
15.   Has a license issued to this applicant ever been revoked? [ ] Yes [ ] No
   If “yes,” explain:
_________________________________________________________________
16.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the provisions
of this Code, etc.?
   [ ] Yes [ ] No If “yes,” explain:
____________________________________________________
17.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony? [ ] Yes
[ ] No
   If “yes,” explain:
_________________________________________________________________
18.   LICENSE DATA:      Term of License _________________________
                  Fee for License $ ________________________
                  Sales Tax Number _______________________
                  License Classification _____________________
19.   LIST ALL OWNERS IF LICENSE IS FOR LOCAL BUSINESS ( ):
   _______________________ ______ __ __________________ ______ _____ __
   _________________________ ___ ___ ______________________________ _
 
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 7)
NUISANCE BUSINESSES
§ 110.25 GENERALLY.
   No business or establishment, whether licensed or not, shall be so conducted
or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no building, vehicle or
structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof shall be used, kept,
maintained, or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as
to occasion any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.26 UNSAFE, UNHEALTHFUL BUSINESSES.
   (A)   No building or structure utilized, constructed, or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation shall evidence an unsanitary,
unsafe, or dangerous condition.
   (B)   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatsoever, which would be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.27 REFUSE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this code
shall be a receptacle of not less than 20, nor more than 32, gallons’ capacity,
constructed of impervious material and sturdy construction with a tight-fitting
cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate handling.
   (B)   Duty to provide refuse containers. The occupant of every building,
structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation shall provide and maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient
number of refuse containers for the temporary storage of all refuse
accumulating between collections. All refuse which is placed for collection
service outside any building or structure must be kept in standard refuse
containers.
   (C)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure, or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
   (D)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling any
hotel, restaurant, café, or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons of refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10.3)
SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE, PERMIT
§ 110.40 NUISANCE.
   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment, whether or
not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present
danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the Mayor shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a period not to
exceed ten days.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12.1)
§ 110.41 HEARING.
   Within eight days after he or she has so acted, the Mayor shall call a
hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license or permit
should be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12.2)
§ 110.42 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses and permits issued in the municipality, unless otherwise
provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in
§§
110.43 and
110.44 for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
      (2)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of this title provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit,
or the premises occupied;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owed to the municipality; and/or
      (5)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in §
110.10.
   (B)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable code regulations of the municipality.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12.3)
§ 110.43 HEARING NOTICE.
   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be given
in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail (return
receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his or her last known
address at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12.4)
§ 110.44 COUNSEL.
   At the hearing, the Attorney for the municipality shall present the
complaint and shall represent the municipality. The licensee or permittee shall
be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-
examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12.5)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Applicant, field check information card
Solicitors
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   Certificate of registration
   
111.17   Application for certificate of registration
   
111.18   Issuance, revocation of certificate
   
111.19   Policy on soliciting
   
111.20   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.21   Compliance by solicitors
   
111.22   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
111.23   Time limit on soliciting
   
111.24   Solicitation on public highways
   
111.25   Fees
Peddlers
   
111.40   Licensed required
   
111.41   Definition
   
111.42   Applications
   
111.43   Investigation of applicants
   
111.44   Hours
   
111.45   Fraud
   
111.46   Photographs
   
111.47   Unwanted peddling
   
111.48   Peddlers as nuisance
   
111.49   Duty of police to abate
   
111.50   Exclusionary provision
 
   
111.51   Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 APPLICANT, FIELD CHECK INFORMATION CARD.
   APPLICANT/FIELD CHECK
   INFORMATION CARD
 
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Name                                  Location Date Time
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Residence Address                     D.L.#
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Business Address                      Vehicle Modifications
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Social Security Number                 
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Race Sex Height                       Action Leading to Check:
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Weight Eyes Hair                       
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Complexion Date of Birth               
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Unusual Features:                      
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
                                     Comments:
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Hat Coat                              Associates:
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Cap Jacket                             
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Blouse Dress                           
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Shirt Sweater                          
_____________________________________ _____________________________________
Skirt Trousers                         
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 7)
SOLICITORS
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character, or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind, or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers, and every other type or kind of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing, or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1)
§ 111.16 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from
persons within the municipality is hereby required to make written application
for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   All resident charitable, non-profit organizations in the municipality
which have been in existence for six months or longer shall be exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 111.17 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of the municipality and filed with such
Chief. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to-wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also, business address if other than residence
address; also, Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm, or corporation or association
with whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of
such employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a certificate under this subchapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this subchapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this code or the regulations of any other state municipality
regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States;
      (13)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application in the municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
      (14)   Such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this subchapter and of the denial
of applications.
   (D)   Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (E)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States within five years of the date
of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter, nor to any person whose certificate
of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 111.18 ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and
all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the
application of the denial of the application.
      (3)   When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate
of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   (1)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be
revoked by the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of
a violation of any provision of this subchapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this subchapter.
      (2)   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be
given by the Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by
certified (return receipt requested) U.S. Mail, addressed to his or her
residence address set forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of
such notice, the certificate of registration shall become null and void.
   (C)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4)
§ 111.19 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of the municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in the municipality shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
§ 111.20 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions:
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in size
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
 
   “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED”
   or
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
 
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the same, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-6)
§ 111.21 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
municipality upon which a residence as herein defined is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
111.20 if any is attached and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
   (B)   If the notice states “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
for shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the
notice states, “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor, whether registered
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-7)
§ 111.22 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.20.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.23 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located
thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting as herein defined, prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on any day
of the week, including Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or
national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.24 SOLICITATION ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General for the state as a charitable organization as provided by “An
Act to Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds for Charitable Purposes,
Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an Appropriation Therefor,”
approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
   (B)   Solicit only at intersections where all traffic from all directions is
required to come to a full stop;
   (C)   Be engaged in a state-wide fund-raising activity;
   (D)   Be liable for any injury to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent; and
   (E)   Any person so engaged in such solicitation shall be at least 16 years
of age and shall wear a high visibility vest.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-10)
§ 111.25 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $20 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
(65 ILCS 5/11-42-5) (Prior Code, § 7-2-12)
PEDDLERS
§ 111.40 LICENSED REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article, or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.41 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PEDDLE.
      (1)   The selling, bartering, or exchanging or the offering for sale,
barter, or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways, or public places of the municipality or from house-to-house,
whether at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from any wagon, truck,
pushcart, or other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall
not include the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items
along delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller
to stop and exhibit his or her items.
      (2)   Nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation of orders by
sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is taken.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 111.42 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of the applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application to the municipality and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 111.43 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant.
   (B)   If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then it
shall be denied.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 111.44 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this subchapter or not, to engage in peddling
as herein defined prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any weekday or at
any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.45 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating, or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in the municipality, or shall batter, sell, or peddle
any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.46 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant, and such of its employees as will be used
in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by two inches,
showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or its agent(s) and/or employee
(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 111.47 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter, nor the issuance of any license
hereunder, shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence
for the purpose of peddling if such licensee, or his or her agents or
employees, are directed to depart from said private residence by the owner or
person in charge thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 111.48 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE.
   (A)   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments, or offices in the municipality by peddlers, hawkers, itinerant
merchants, and transient vendors of merchandise without having been requested
or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said
private residences and business establishments or offices for the purpose of
disposing of and/or peddling or hawking of merchandise is hereby declared to be
a nuisance and is punishable as a violation of this code.
   (B)   No person shall peddle in a public square.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.49 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of the municipality is hereby required and directed to
suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
111.48.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 111.50 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business firm, or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the municipality or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 111.51 FEES.
   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in the
municipality, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as
follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $20 per person per day; and
   (B)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-12)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENT AND LEISURE
Section
Coin-Operated Machines
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Fees
   
112.04   Non-assignability of license
   
112.05   Placement; gambling prohibited
   
112.06   Display of license
   
112.07   Right of entry
Raffles
   
112.20   Definitions
   
112.21   Administration
   
112.22   License required
   
112.23   Applications for license
   
112.24   Application; issuance
   
112.25   Prohibited licenses
   
112.26   Restrictions on the conduct of raffles
   
112.27   Records
   
112.28   Term and fees
   
112.29   Limited construction
COIN-OPERATED MACHINES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE.
      (1)   Any amusement machine or device operated by means of the insertion
of a coin, token, or currency for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the
playing of which a fee is charged.
      (2)   (a)   The term includes, but is not limited to, juke boxes,
electronic video games, pin-ball machines or other similar games.
         (b)   The term does not include vending machines in which there are
not incorporated gaming or amusement features.
   OPERATOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or club
who sets up for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose
of operation by another any device(s) herein defined, whether such setting up
for operation, leasing, or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on
the basis of a division of the income from such device or otherwise.
   PROPRIETOR. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or a
club who, as the owner, lessee, or proprietor, has under his, her, or its
control any establishment, place, or premises in or on which such device is
placed or kept for use or play or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of an operator
of coin-operated amusement devices within the corporate limits of the
municipality without having first obtained the proper license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 FEES.
   The annual fee for such license shall be $25 per year or part thereof for
business location.
   (A)   All operator’s license fees shall be payable annually in advance and
in no case shall any portion of said license fee to be refunded to the
licensee.
   (B)   The license period shall be for the fiscal year of the municipality;
and all applications for renewal shall be made to the Clerk not more than 30
days, but no less than 15 days prior to the expiration of such license.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 112.04 NON-ASSIGNABILITY OF LICENSE.
   The location of a license may be changed only upon the written permission of
the Mayor. Any license issued hereunder shall be non-assignable and non-
transferable.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4)
§ 112.05 PLACEMENT; GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   All licensed devices shall, at all times, be kept and placed in plain view
of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business where
such devices are kept or used. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
authorize, permit, or license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever. It
shall be unlawful for any person receiving a license pursuant to this
subchapter to give or award a cash prize or equivalent to any person playing
any of the tables, devices, or machines enumerated hereinabove under
tournament, league, or any other individual or competitive play.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall frame and hang his or her license in a conspicuous
place in the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6)
§ 112.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of Police has the power to and shall inspect any place, building,
or premises in which any licensed device or devices are operated or set up for
operation at such times and intervals as he or she may deem necessary for the
proper enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7)
RAFFLES
§ 112.20 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees, and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
      RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code
of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., conducted by an organization licensed
under this subchapter in which:
         (a)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, presented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers, or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance; and
         (b)   The winning chance is to be determined through drawing or by
some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited
sporting contest.
   (B)   The definitions contained in 230 ILCS 15/2 are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out herein.
(230 ILCS 15/1) (Prior Code, § 7-7-1)
§ 112.21 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Mayor is hereby charged with the administration of the appropriate
provisions of this subchapter, and may appoint persons to assist in the
exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties herein provided,
including, but not limited to, the members of his staff, the Village Attorney,
the Village Clerk, and the Chief of Police.
(230 ILCS 15/2) (Prior Code, § 7-7-2)
§ 112.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person or organization shall conduct or partake in the
selling of raffle chances within the limits and territory of the village
without having a license to do so issued by the Mayor in a manner hereinafter
provided and a valid license for such purpose as provided by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
      (2)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, fraternal, educational, or veterans’ organizations that operate without
profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously for a
period of five years immediately before making application for a license and
which have had during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objectives or to a non-profit fundraising
organization that the licensing authority determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident, or disaster.
(230 ILCS 15/2)
   (B)   The above mentioned types of organizations shall be defined pursuant
to the Illinois Compiled Statutes and incorporated herein.
   (C)   No person or organization shall be issued more than one license in a
period of one week.
   (D)   The manager of a raffle game shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of
$1,000 in the performance of his or her duties. The Mayor or his or her
designated representative is authorized to waive requirement for bond by
including a waiver provision in the license issued, provided that the license
containing such waiver provision shall be granted only by majority vote of the
members of the licensed organization. The terms of the bond shall provide that
notice shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than 30
days prior to its cancellation.
   (E)   Any license issued under this subchapter shall be nontransferable.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-3)
§ 112.23 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to eligible
organizations to conduct raffles and to participate in the sale of raffle
tickets within the limits and territory of the village upon the conditions and
in the manner provided by this subchapter and by the Act of the General
Assembly of the state, and not otherwise. Such license shall be in writing,
signed by the Mayor, and attested by the Village Clerk with the seal of his or
her office affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall submit to the
Village Clerk an application, in triplicate, in writing and under oath stating
the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the organization;
      (2)   The type of organization that is conducting the raffle, for
example, religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, veterans’
organizations, or other;
      (3)   The length of time the organization has continually existed
immediately before making application for a license;
      (4)   The applicant shall give the aggregate retail value of all prizes
or merchandise awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
      (5)   The applicant will give the maximum retail value of each prize
awarded by a licensee in a single raffle;
      (6)   The amount that the organization plans to charge for each raffle
chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The time and location where the raffle is to be held;
      (8)   The purpose for which the proceeds of the raffle will be used;
      (9)   The name and address of the person conducting and performing the
raffle, and his or her relationship with the organization;
      (10)   The last date which the applicant has applied for a raffle
license;
      (11)   The area in which the organization plans to sell or issue its
raffle chances; and
      (12)   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-4)
§ 112.24 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   All licenses issued by the Mayor or Village Clerk are subject to the
following restrictions.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   The license and application for a license shall specify the area or
areas within the licensing authority in which raffle chances will be sold or
issued, the time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the
time of determination in winning chances, and the location or locations with
which winning chances will be determined.
   (C)   The application shall contain a sworn statement attesting to the not-
for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization signed by the
presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   (D)   The Mayor shall act upon a license application within 30 days from the
date of application.
   (E)   The application for license shall be prepared in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (F)   A license authorizes the licensee to conduct raffles as defined in
this subchapter.
(230 ILCS 15/3) (Prior Code, § 7-7-5)
§ 112.25 PROHIBITED LICENSES.
   The following are ineligible for any raffle license:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A),
(B), or (C) above has a propriety, equitable, or credit interest, or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B), or
(C) above is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B), or
(C) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined by this subchapter.
(230 ILCS 15/3) (Prior Code, § 7-7-6)
§ 112.26 RESTRICTIONS ON THE CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine a winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which has also been licensed
under the Raffle Act, being 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license, and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   (G)   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued by the governing body of any county or municipality under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(230 ILCS 15/4) (Prior Code, § 7-7-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.27 RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall
keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined.
      (2)   All deductions from the gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient.
      (3)   The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount, and date of payment.
   (B)   (1)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts if bingo games are also conducted by the same non-profit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the state,
and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate records
of its raffles.
      (2)   The person who accounts for the gross receipts, expenses, and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership and to the village its gross receipts, expenses, and net
proceeds from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required
by this section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years;
and the organization shall make available their records relating to operation
of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(230 ILCS 15/6) (Prior Code, § 7-7-8)
§ 112.28 TERM AND FEES.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $25,000;
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $15,000;
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $25;
   (D)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 120 days; and
   (E)   Licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for one
raffle and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-9)
§ 112.29 LIMITED CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity, or device other than
raffles as provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-7-10)
Editor’s note:
   Political committees are required by 230 ILCS 15/8.1 to secure raffle
licenses from the State Board of Elections.
CHAPTER 113: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Physical requirements
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   Application
   
113.05   Disqualifications
   
113.06   License
   
113.07   License fee
   
113.08   Minors
Cross-reference:
   Garbage, see Chapter 54
Statutory reference:
   Regulations of dealers of junk, see 65 ILCS 5/11-42-3
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   JUNK. Scrap and old iron, steel, chain, brass, copper, magnesium, aluminum,
tin, lead or other base metals, scrap lumber, old rope, old bags, rags, waste
paper, paper clippings, scraps of woolens, clips, bagging, rubber and glass,
and empty bottles of different kinds or sizes when the number of each kind or
size is less than one gross, any wrecked or dilapidated motor vehicle, engine,
or machinery received, stored, or held for more than 90 days, and all articles
and things discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article composed of or
consisting of any one or more of the materials or articles herein mentioned.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person, firm, partnership, or corporation that shall
engage in the business of buying, selling, bartering, or exchanging, or shall
collect, receive, store, or hold in possession for sale, barter, or exchange
any of the things in and by this section defined as JUNK.
   JUNK YARD. The premises on which a junk dealer is engaged in the business of
buying, selling, bartering, exchanging, or collecting, receiving, storing, or
holding in possession for sale, barter, or exchange, any of the things in and
by this section defined as JUNK.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and debris, see §§
90.035 through
90.042
   Nuisances, see §§
90.001 through
90.004
§ 113.02 PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum physical requirements at all times for each junk yard shall be
as follows.
   (A)   The premises where the junk yard is located shall not have more than
two entrances thereto and two exits therefrom; each of which shall not exceed
15 feet in width at the perimeter of the premises.
   (B)   The premises where the junk yard is located shall be enclosed on its
perimeter with an approved, solid, non-transparent, vertical wall or fence of a
minimum height of seven feet measured from ground level, excepting for the
entrances and exits permitted by division (A) above.
   (C)   The aforesaid solid, non-transparent wall or fence and the gates or
doors, if any, at the aforesaid entrances and exits shall not contain any sign,
poster, or advertising matter of any kind whatsoever, excepting one sign of the
licensee thereon not exceeding 100 square feet in size.
   (D)   The public streets and alleys adjacent to the junk yard shall not have
junk thereon.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, conduct, or operate a
junk yard within the corporate limits of the village without first obtaining a
license to do so as herein provided. A separate license shall be secured for
each junk yard located on non-contiguous lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of
land.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any license under the provisions of this section is issued, any
person desiring to operate a junk yard in the village shall first make a
verified application in writing to the Clerk in the absence of provisions to
the contrary, stating thereon the full name of the applicant, his or her
residence address, the trade name of the applicant, the legal description of
the premises where the junk yard is to be located, the size and approximate
location of each entrance thereto and exit therefrom, whether or not the
premises where the junk yard is to be located is enclosed on its perimeter with
a solid, non-transparent wall or fence of a minimum height of seven feet,
measured from ground level, excepting the entrances and exits, and whether or
not the public streets and alleys adjacent to the premises where the junk yard
is to be located have junk thereon.
   (B)   If the applicant is a firm or partnership, the names and residence
addresses of all the partners, and in the case of a corporation, the names and
residence addresses of the president and secretary, shall be stated in the
application.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4)
§ 113.05 DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   Any applicant for a license to keep, maintain, conduct, or operate a junk
yard shall be disqualified for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Not a person of good character;
   (B)   Falsification of an application for a license hereunder;
   (C)   License for a junk yard theretofor issued to the applicant has been
revoked during the preceding 24 months; and/or
   (D)   Failure to meet any one of the minimum physical requirements for a
junk yard as specified in §
113.02 hereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 113.06 LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all licenses issued hereunder shall state that such license is
issued in the name of the junk dealer solely for the purpose of keeping,
maintaining, conducting, and operating a junk yard, the expiration date
thereof, the legal description of the premises where the junk yard is to be
located, that the license shall be used and the privileges thereof exercised
only at the described premises, and that such license is non-assignable and
non-transferable.
   (B)   Such license shall further provide that it is issued subject to all
the provisions of this chapter that upon the first conviction for a violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, in addition to the fine, such junk
yard shall remain closed for a period of 30 days; that upon the second
conviction for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
license shall become null and void, and the license shall forfeit all sums paid
for such license, and that the licensee, by the acceptance of such license
expressly agrees to all the terms and conditions thereof, and to the terms and
provisions of this section and all amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6)
§ 113.07 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for each junk yard shall be $500 payable in advance
with the filing of the application for license, and shall not be subject to pro
rata reduction for a portion of the year, either because of the application for
or because of revocation of a license; provided, however, that only one annual
license fee shall be payable for licenses which may be issued whenever the
applicant desires to keep, maintain, conduct, or operate junk yards on lots,
blocks, tracts, or parcels of land which are situated on directly opposite
sides of and abut upon each side of a public street or alley. Where such place
of business is not located in the village, but the operator carries on the
business of buying or collecting or bartering for the items heretofor
enumerated within the village, the annual fee shall be $500 for each junk
dealer. The fee is payable as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-7)
§ 113.08 MINORS.
   No licensee hereunder shall purchase or receive any article whatsoever from
any minor without the written consent of their parents or guardians.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Definitions
   
114.002   Application of liquor license
Licenses
   
114.015   License required
   
114.016   Applications
   
114.017   Examination of applicant
   
114.018   Prohibited licensees
   
114.019   Term; fee submitted in advance
   
114.020   Classes of licenses; term; annual fees
   
114.021   Nature of license
   
114.022   Limitation of licenses
   
114.023   Dramshop insurance
   
114.024   Financial responsibility
   
114.025   Display of license
   
114.026   Records of licenses
Regulations
   
114.040   Hours
   
114.041   Happy hour restrictions
   
114.042   Prohibited locations
   
114.043   Change of location
   
114.044   Stores selling school supplies, lunches, and the like
   
114.045   Transporting, and the like, in motor vehicles
   
114.046   Open liquor; cup-to-go prohibited
   
114.047   Liquor in vehicles; underage
   
114.048   Restricted residential areas
   
114.049   Election days
   
114.050   Unlawful acts
   
114.051   Unlawful entertainment
   
114.052   Sanitary conditions
   
114.053   Diseased employees
   
114.054   Health permit
   
114.055   Peddling
   
114.056   Gambling
   
114.057   Disorderly house
   
114.058   Prohibited sales; generally
   
114.059   Persons selling liquor
   
114.060   Minors; entry on licensed premises
   
114.061   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
114.062   Identification required
   
114.063   Transfer of identification card
   
114.064   Posting warning
   
114.065   Exclusionary provisions
   
114.066   Inspections
   
114.067   Books and records available
   
114.068   Restrictions on licensee
   
114.069   False identification; selling
   
114.070   Underage drinking on streets
   
114.071   Residential drinking
   
114.072   Renting hotel rooms for drinking
Violations
   
114.085   Owner of premises permitting violation
   
114.086   Acts of agent, employee; liability; knowledge
   
114.087   Revocation of license after conviction
   
114.088   Revocation of license when employee convicted
   
114.089   Misbranding
   
114.090   Abatement of place used in violation
   
114.091   Use of premises for one year after revocation
   
114.092   Revocation of licenses
   
114.093   Complaint by residents
   
114.094   Revocation, suspension of local license; notice and hearing
   
114.095   Appeals from order of Liquor Commissioner
   
114.096   Subsequent violations in a year
   
114.097   Appeal limitations for subsequent violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
      (1)   Alcohol, spirits, wine, and beer, and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and capable of
being consumed as a beverage by human beings.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in
the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of
Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid
containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members, through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring, or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests, and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing, and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided that such CLUB files with the Mayor at the time of
its application for a license under this chapter two copies of a list of names
and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the
election of any additional member his or her name and address; and provided
further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or officer, agent, or employee of the CLUB is paid,
or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other compensation
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the CLUB or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
   MAYOR. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner as provided in 235 ILCS,
entitled “Dramshop,” and all references to Liquor Commissioner shall refer to
the MAYOR unless otherwise provided.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   Any premises enclosed or unenclosed, or partly enclosed and partly
unenclosed, wherein any service or goods, chattels, or merchandise are offered
for sale to the public or any such premises used as a clubhouse, club room, or
meeting place.
      (2)   The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC PREMISES shall be interchangeable
for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. One who has his or her residence in the municipality and is a
registered voter at that place of residence.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually
are served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity, and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE OF RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, gin, or
other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended, or otherwise
mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. To keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined.
(235 ILCS 5/1-3.03) (Prior Code, § 21-1-1)
§ 114.002 APPLICATION OF LIQUOR LICENSE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       License No. _____________________________________
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Date Issued ______________________________________
APPLICATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Expires _______________________________________ __
FOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Checked By _____________________________________
LIQUOR LICENSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Approved By ____________________________________
REQUIRED BY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Date _______________________________________
TO BE FILED WITH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Order to Receive No. _____________________________
THE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Amount _______________________________________ __
VILLAGE CLERK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          [ ] Cash         [ ] Bank Draft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [ ] Cashier’s Check   [ ] Money Order
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [ ] Certified Check   [ ] _______
IMPORTANT – READ CAREFULLY – PERSONAL CHECKS NOT ACCEPTED UNLESS CERTIFIED
This application properly completed and signed must be filed with the Village Clerk and must be accompanied by a remittance in the proper amount, made payable to the Village Treasurer. This remittance must be in the form of a Certified or Cashier’s Check, United States Postal Money Order, Express Money Order, or Licensed Currency Exchange Money Order, Bank Draft, Bank Money Order, or Personal Money Order. Cash accepted.
_________________________________________________________________________________
The undersigned individual or partnership hereby makes application for a LIQUOR LICENSE and submits the following information:
1.    Applicant:________________________________________________________________________
         (GIVE NAME OF INDIVIDUAL OR NAMES OF PARTNERS — TYPE OR PRINT ONLY)
2.   Trade, Partnership or Assumed Name_________________________________________________________
                     TYPE OR PRINT NAME PLAINLY   TELEPHONE
3.   Location of above place of business (NUMBER AND STREET OR LOT AND BLOCK OR SECTION, TOWNSHIP AND RANGE MUST BE GIVEN) _________________________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________________________ __________________________
4.   Has your Assumed Name been filed with the County Clerk?________________________________________________________________________
5.   Are alcoholic liquors stored but not sold at any location other than the one given above?_______________________________________________________________________
   If “yes,” give location:______________________________________________________________________
   NUMBER AND STREET OR LOT AND BLOCK OR SECTION, TOWNSHIP AND RANGE,     VILLAGE
6.   Check principal kind of business:   [ ] Restaurant [ ] Grocery [ ] Hotel [ ] Other
                  [ ] Tavern [ ] Amusement Place [ ] Country Club
                  [ ] Package Store [ ] Department Store [ ] Social Club
7.   Give number of your Current Liquor License for this location _________________________________________________________________________________
   A.   In whose name or names is your license issued?____________________________________________
   B.   Date license issued ________________________ Date license expires_________________________
                  Month Day Year                Month Day    Year
8.   Give name and address of owner of premises __________________________________________
   When does your license expire? __________________________________
                     Month Day Year
9.   Given the date you first made application for a Liquor License for any location in Illinois: ____________________________ (Month/Date/Year)
   A.   Disposition of application: ___________________________________________________
   B.   Give address ______________________________________________________________________________
   NUMBER AND STREET OR LOT AND BLOCK OR SECTION, TOWNSHIP AND RANGE, VILLAGE
10.   Give date you began liquor business at this location __________________________________
                                    Month Day Year
11.   Give date partnership was formed under name give on Line 1: _________________________________
                                 Month Day Year
12.   Has a Liquor License been revoked at this location within the past year? ____________________
13.   Is this business located within __________ feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indignant persons or for veterans, their wives or children or any naval or military station?__________________________________________________________________________ _____
14.   Has any manufacturer, importing distributor or distributor directly or indirectly paid or agreed to pay for this license, advanced money, or anything else of value, except as specifically permitted in the Act, or any credit (other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of business as specifically permitted in the Act) or is such a person directly or indirectly interested in the ownership, conduct, or operation of the place of business? _______ If answer is “yes,” give particulars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
15. Name ________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16. Name ______________
   A.   Residence Address __________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A.   Residence Address __________________
      _______________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          _______________________________________
(NUMBER AND STREET OR RURAL ROUTE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (NUMBER AND STREET OR RURAL ROUTE)
      _____________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            _____________________________________
(NAME OF VILLAGE, COUNTY AND STATE))                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (NAME OF VILLAGE, COUNTY AND STATE)
   B.   Place of Birth: ___________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B.   Place of Birth: ____________
      Date of Birth:____________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Date of Birth: ____________
   C.   Are you a citizen of the United States? _____                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               C.   Are you a citizen of the United States? _____
      If a naturalized citizen, time and place of naturalization? _______________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                              If naturalized citizen, time and place of naturalization? _______________________________________
      _______________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          _______________________________________
   D.   Have you ever been convicted of a felony or otherwise disqualified to receive the license applied for by reason of any matter or thing contained in the Illinois Liquor Control Act or the Municipal Liquor Code? [ ] YES                                                                                   D.   Have you ever been convicted of a felony or otherwise disqualified to receive the license applied for by reason of any matter or thing contained in the Illinois Liquor Control Act or the Municipal Liquor Code? [ ] YES
      [ ] NO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           [ ] NO
      If “yes,” name court of conviction                                                                                                                                         If “yes,” name court of conviction                                                                            
   E.   Have you ever made application for a liquor license for any other premises? ______                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E.   Have you ever made application for a liquor license for any other premises? ______
      DATE:__________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DATE:__________________________
      State disposition of application:                                                                                                                                                                                     State disposition of application:                                                                                            
      Give address: ________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Give address: ________________________
   F.   Are you or is any other person, directly or indirectly interested in your place of business, a public official as defined in Sec. 2 (14) Art. VI of the Illinois Liquor Control Act? _____                                                                                                                  F.   Are you or is any other person, directly or indirectly interested in your place of business, a public official as defined in Sec. 2 (14) Art. VI of the Illinois Liquor Control Act? _____
      If so, office held? __________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   If so, office held? __________
   G.   Has any license previously issued to you by any State or local authorities been SUSPENDED? _______________________________________                                                                                                                                                                          G.   Has any license previously issued to you by any State or local authorities been SUSPENDED? _______________________________________
      DATE: ________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DATE: ________________________________
      If so, state reasons therefor: _______________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   If so, state reasons therefor: _______________
      WHERE: ______________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WHERE: ______________________________
            (VILLAGE COUNTY STATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (VILLAGE COUNTY STATE)
   H.   Has any license previously issued to you by any State or local authorities been REVOKED? _______________________________________                                                                                                                                                                            H.   Has any license previously issued to you by any State or local authorities been REVOKED? _______________________________________
      If so, state reasons therefor: _______________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   If so, state reasons therefor: _______________
      WHERE: ______________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WHERE: ______________________________
            (VILLAGE COUNTY STATE)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (VILLAGE COUNTY STATE)
   I.   Will you comply with the Local Liquor Code and the Regulations in connection therewith? _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________                                                                                             I.   Will you comply with the Local Liquor Code and the Regulations in connection therewith? _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________
17.   Do you possess a current Federal Wagering or Gaming Device Stamp? [ ] YES [ ] NO
   Stamp No. _______________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Amount ____________________
18.   Will this business be conducted by a manager or agent? [ ] YES [ ] NO If anser is “YES,” Manager or Agent must give the following information:
   A.   Name ___________________________________________________
   B.   Residence Address _________________________________________________________________________
      (STREET AND NUMBER OR RURAL ROUTE AND BOX NUMBER VILLAGE COUNTY STATE)
   C.   Place of Birth ____________________   Are you a citizen of the United States? [ ] YES [ ] NO
   D.   If a naturalized citizen, time and place of naturalization? __________________________________
   E.   Have you ever been convicted of any crime as stated in Question 15-D or 16-D above?
      [ ] YES [ ] NO   State Offense: _______________________
   F.   Are you or have you ever been interested in any liquor business at another address?
      [ ] YES [ ] NO
      DATE: ____________________________   If so, state reasons therefor__________________________
      WHERE: ________________________________________________________
               (VILLAGE, COUNTY AND STATE)
   H.   Has any license previously issue to you by any State or local authorities been REVOKED?
      [ ] YES [ ] NO DATE: _____________________   If so, state reasons therefor ______________
      WHERE: ________________________________ (VILLAGE, COUNTY AND STATE)
   NO LICENSE SHALL BE ISSUED UNLESS ALL THE ABOVE QUESTIONS ARE
   COMPLETELY ANSWERED
   AFFIDAVIT
   (PLEASE READ CAREFULLY BEFORE SIGNING)
   I (We) do solemnly swear (or affirm) that the statements given above are true and correct to the best of my (our) knowledge and belief; that I (We) will comply with all regulations of Federal, State and Local Liquor Control Laws; that a copy of an ordinance governing the sale at retail of alcoholic liquors and beverages in this municipality has been furnished to me (us); that I (We) understand the same, and agree to comply with all the provisions set forth therein.
   I (We) swear (or affirm) that I (We) will not violate any of the laws of the State of Illinois or of the United States of America in the conduct of the place of business described herein and that the statements contained in this application are true and correct and are made for the purpose of inducing the Village of _____________________________, Illinois to issue the license herein applied for.
   SUBSCRIBED AND SWORN TO BEFORE ME THIS _______ DAY OF _____________, A.D., __.
APPLICANT(S):                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          _______________________________________
_______________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CLERK
_______________________________________
(SEAL)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 21)
LICENSES
§ 114.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep, or offer for sale at retail, or conduct
any place for the sale at retail, of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of the municipality without having a license to do so, issued by the
Mayor of the municipality in the manner hereinafter provided, and a valid
license for such purpose issued by the State Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (B)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of the municipality is
hereby required for and with respect to each building, location, and premises,
within the aforesaid territory of the municipality, at or upon which alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.016 APPLICATIONS.
   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals, firms,
and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at retail
alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of the municipality upon the
conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the Act of the
General Assembly of the state, and not otherwise. Such license shall be in
writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Municipal Clerk, with the seal
of his or her office affixed thereto. Prior to issuance of a license, the
applicant must submit to the Mayor an application in triplicate, in writing and
under oath, stating the following.
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers, and directors, and the name of the person who will
be managing the establishment for which the license is sought, and if a
majority in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or
his or her nominee, the address and name of such person.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization.
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the business
of that character or, in the case of a corporation, the date on which its
charter was issued.
   (E)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
   (F)   Whether applicant has made similar application for a similar other
license on premises other than described in the application and the disposition
of such application.
   (G)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly, or in this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto.
   (H)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state, or
subdivision thereof, or by the federal government, has been revoked and the
reasons therefor.
   (I)   (1)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or of
the United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of business.
      (2)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
with respect to a corporation, the information and statements required by this
section shall be furnished as to the president of the corporation, the
secretary of the corporation, the directors of the corporation, and with
respect to the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is
sought.
      (3)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club, or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to
by at least two members of such partnership, firm, association, or club, or by
the president and secretary of such corporation.
      (4)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor, and one
copy given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the
copies his or her approval or disapproval of the application and may make
further comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to
the Mayor and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be
considered by him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license should be
issued or refused.
(235 ILCS 5/7-1) (Prior Code, § 21-2-2)
§ 114.017 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served in the manner hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to
be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear
testimony and take proof for his or her information in the performance of his
or her duties; and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective
in any part of the state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she
may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her behalf.
(235 ILCS 5/4-5) (Prior Code, § 21-2-3)
§ 114.018 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No retail license shall be issued by the Mayor to the following:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the municipality;
   (B)   A person who is not 21 years of age;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person’s application and the Commission’s
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill-fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
   (F)   A person whose license has previously been revoked for cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of the application for renewal for any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
   (H)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of such corporation, would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than the
requirement for citizenship and residence;
   (J)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983, being 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq. to transact business in the state;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (L)   Any person, association, or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor license;
   (M)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (N)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter or has forfeited his or her bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (O)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not rent nor have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   (P)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the Local
Liquor Control Commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of a city council or
commission, any president of a village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises which are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the State Liquor Control Commission and the Mayor;
   (Q)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (R)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of § 28-1 of, or as prescribed by §
28-3 of, the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as heretofore
or hereafter amended, or as prescribed by a statute replaced by any of the
aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (S)   A person to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period;
   (T)   A co-partnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the
federal government for the current tax period;
   (U)   A corporation if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period; and
   (V)   Any premises for which a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the
federal government for the current tax period.
(235 ILCS 5/6-2) (Prior Code, § 21-2-4)
§ 114.019 TERM; FEE SUBMITTED IN ADVANCE.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for
six-month periods upon the payment of the license fee as hereinafter set forth
unless sooner revoked or suspended. The six-month periods shall be from January
1 to June 30 of each year and from July 1 to December 31 of each year.
   (B)   The license fee shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a
license at the time the application for a license is submitted to the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner as hereinbefore provided. In the event the license
is denied, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant. The fees shall
be deposited in the Municipal General Fund. The application for a license shall
be filed with the Municipal Clerk.
   (C)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
   (D)   With respect to a corporation operating an establishment for which a
liquor license has been issued, should the manager of said establishment change
after the issuance of said liquor license, the corporation must submit the new
manager’s name and shall be submitted within 30 days. Continuation of the
license will be contingent upon a background check of the new manager as set
out in this chapter, and all fees shall be waived should the license be changed
only as a result of a change of managers. If, for some reason, the manager is
not acceptable, the licensee shall have 30 days to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of said license.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-2-5)
§ 114.020 CLASSES OF LICENSES; TERM; ANNUAL FEES.
   Licenses as required by this chapter shall be divided into four classes as
follows.
   (A)   Class “A” licenses. Class “A” licenses shall authorize the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other retail
sales of alcoholic liquor. The annual license fee for the Class “A” license
shall be the sum of $200. There shall be no more than four licenses issued at
any one time.
   (B)   Class “B” licenses. Class “B” licenses shall authorize the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor, but which shall not be consumed on the premises where
sold. The annual fee for the Class “B” license shall be the sum of $200. There
shall be no more than four licenses issued at any one time.
   (C)   Licenses; civic organizations. Upon application, the Liquor
Commissioner is authorized to issue a Class “C” license for a period 12 or 24
hours to any civic or religious organization which keeps or desires to keep any
place selling or offering for sale, or in any manner dealing in any alcoholic
liquors. The fee for such license shall be for the sale of alcoholic liquors,
the sum of $50, subject to the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Class “D” club licenses. Any organization which is a club, as defined
in §
114.001, may obtain a license to sell alcoholic liquors to its own members at
the building or premises actually used as the club’s quarters upon filing with
the Mayor or Clerk of the village of its written application therefor, signed
by its president or corresponding officer and its secretary or similar officer,
together with two copies of a list of names and residences of all its members.
The license shall be in the form approved by the Mayor and shall be signed by
the Mayor and attested by the Clerk. The license shall, at all times, be
displayed by the licensee in a conspicuous place in the room where liquors are
to be sold. The Mayor shall have and is hereby given the same right to revoke
and/or suspend any license issued hereunder as he or she now or hereafter may
have in the matter of other licenses for the sale of alcoholic liquors. The
license fee for a club license shall be $200 per year.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-6) (Ord. 2005-5, passed 7-11-2005; Ord. 2009-8, passed 8-
10-2009; Ord. 2019-34, passed 12-12-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 114.021 NATURE OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issued unless sooner revoked as in this
chapter authorized and provided, and shall not constitute property nor shall it
be subject to attachment, garnishment, or execution; nor shall it be alienable
or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered
or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee,
provided that executors and administrators of any estate of the deceased
licensee and the trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the court having jurisdiction of
such estate and may exercise the privileges of such deceased, insolvent, or
bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six months
after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee.
(235 ILCS 5/6-1) (Prior Code, § 21-2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Attorney General’s Report No. 703; 01-08-48
§ 114.022 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Annexing license holders. The restrictions contained in this chapter
shall in no way affect taverns and other business(es) holding retail liquor
licenses, duly licensed by the county, which are located in the territory
annexed to the municipality. Licenses may be issued to them or renewed by the
duly constituted authorities upon annexation; provided that thereafter, all of
the restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall apply.
   (B)   Destroyed or damaged business.
      (1)   (a)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of
fees by any person, firm, or corporation for a period longer than 90 days
without a tavern or liquor business for the same being in complete and full
operation.
         (b)   However, if a tavern or liquor business has been destroyed or
damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or repaired within the 90-
day period, then, in that event, the Mayor shall extend the period of time for
which a liquor license may be held by the mere payment of fees without the
tavern or liquor business being in full and complete operation for an
additional 90 days.
      (2)   If either of the above stated periods of time passes without the
particular tavern or liquor business returning to complete and full operation,
the license for that particular business shall expire and not be subject to
renewal, unless all other requirements of this chapter shall have been met.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-2-8)
§ 114.023 DRAMSHOP INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with
the application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, certifying that the applicant has the following minimum
coverages:
   (A)   Bodily injury liability: $30,000 for each person, and $50,000 for each
occurrence;
   (B)   Property damage: $30,000 for each occurrence; and
   (C)   Loss of support coverage: $30,000 for each occurrence.
(235 ILCS 5/6-15) (Prior Code, § 21-2-9)
§ 114.024 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No license of any class to sell alcoholic liquor shall be issued by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner unless the applicant therefor has
presented a written commitment or “binder” from a licensed dram shop insurer to
insure the said licensee in an amount not less than the maximum limit for
recovery provided for in 235 ILCS 5/6-21, 1994.
   (B)   The applicant/licensee shall contemporaneous with the issuance of his
or her license, present evidence of such insurance (a duplicate policy and a
paid receipt for the premium therefor) to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner.
   (C)   The licensee’s failure to keep such dram shop insurance in force
throughout the entire period for which the aforesaid license is issued shall be
grounds for revocation of such license.
(Prior Code, § 21-2-10)
§ 114.025 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(235 ILCS 5/6-24) (Prior Code, § 21-2-11)
§ 114.026 RECORDS OF LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer, and Chief of Police a copy of the same.
Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written notice
to these same officers within 48 hours.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-2-12)
REGULATIONS
§ 114.040 HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to sell or offer for sale at
retail or to give away in or upon any licensed premises any alcoholic liquor
between the following hours:
      (1)   Sunday 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. Monday;
      (2)   Monday 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. Tuesday;
      (3)   Tuesday 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. Wednesday;
      (4)   Wednesday 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. Thursday;
      (5)   Thursday 6:00 a.m. until 1:00 a.m. Friday;
      (6)   Friday 6:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. Saturday; and
      (7)   Saturday 6:00 a.m. until 2:00 a.m. Sunday.
   (B)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold and all licensed premises must
remain closed at all other times other than those specified above.
   (C)   The times referred to above shall refer to Daylight Saving Time or
when the same is in effect in the village and, upon cessation of Daylight
Saving Time, shall be Central Standard Time.
   (D)   All patrons or customers shall leave the premises at the specified
closing time and shall not remain on the premises thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 85-1, passed 5-13-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.041 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged
for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed
premises or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a hotel or multi-use
establishment which holds a valid retailer’s license operates on its premises
more than one establishment at which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at
retail, the hotel or multi-use establishment shall maintain at each such
establishment a separate schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at the
establishment.
   (B)   No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      (1)   Serve two or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except selling or delivering wine by
the bottle or carafe;
      (2)   Sell, offer to sell, or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      (3)    Sell, offer to sell, or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price
is a promotion to encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as
authorized in division (C)(7) below;
      (4)   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or
the size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      (5)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest
on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licenses
premises, any of the practices prohibited under divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above.
   (C)   Nothing in division (B) above shall be construed to prohibit a
licensee from:
      (1)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      (2)   Including drinks or alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      (3)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      (4)   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract
between a hotel or multi-use establishment and another group for the holding of
any function, meeting, convention, or trade show;
      (5)   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      (6)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner and delivered to two or more persons at one time; or
      (7)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole, or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of the retailer’s license as provided by §§
114.085 through
114.097.
(235 ILCS 5/6-28) (Prior Code, § 21-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.042 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within 100 feet of any church, school (other than an institution of
higher learning), hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons, or for
veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station;
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on if such place of business so exempted shall have been established
for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor to the
renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises
within 100 feet of any church or school where such church or school has been
established within such 100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In
the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest
part of any building used for worship services or educational programs and not
to property boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods where groups are assembled on the premises solely for
the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquors.
(235 ILCS 5/6-11) (Prior Code, § 21-3-3)
§ 114.043 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only on the premises described in the application and license.
   (B)   Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Mayor.
   (C)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of the state and the code of the municipality.
(235 ILCS 5/7-14) (Prior Code, § 21-3-4)
§ 114.044 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES, AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for such
minors.
(235 ILCS 5/6-12) (Prior Code, § 21-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.045 TRANSPORTING, AND THE LIKE, IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall, within the municipality, transport, carry, possess, or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon, or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley, or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.046 OPEN LIQUOR; CUP-TO-GO PROHIBITED.
   The licensee shall not knowingly permit any person to leave his or her
premises with open liquor or in a “cup-to-go.”
(Prior Code, § 21-3-7)
§ 114.047 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; UNDERAGE.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
   (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-8)
§ 114.048 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within the
municipality in violation of the restrictions of the Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning code, regulations, see
Chapter 156
§ 114.049 ELECTION DAYS.
   All such licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink, or in
the original package for consumption either on or off the premises licensed on
the day of any national, state, county, or municipal election, including
primary elections during the hours the polls are open within the political area
in which such election is being held and on Sundays; subject to all the
remaining terms, conditions, and opening hours and closing hours as set forth
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-10)
§ 114.050 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do or commit any of the following
acts within the municipality, to-wit:
   (A)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public way without special permission granted by the Village Board;
(235 ILCS 5/6-16)
   (B)   Drink any alcoholic liquors in any public park, except with the
permission of the Mayor;
   (C)   Drink any alcoholic liquors on any private property without permission
of an owner thereof; and
   (D)   Appear on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
place, including parks and recreation areas, in an intoxicated condition.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.051 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No licensee, his or her agent, servant, or employee shall permit or
allow any lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/
or employees (TOPLESS being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline and BOTTOMLESS being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward), or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein, or by any employee or guest.
   (B)   Nor shall any licensee, his or her agent, servant, or employee permit
or allow any employee or guest or any other person whomever to solicit or
encourage the purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any
description, or the giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or
for the benefit of such employee or guest.
   (C)   The following kinds of conduct on premises in the municipality
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts;
      (2)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing, or
fondling of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva, or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva, or genitals;
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva, or anus; and/or
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted above.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.052 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of
the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.) (Prior Code, § 21-3-13)
§ 114.053 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious disease or infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful
for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work
in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation,
or distribution of such liquor.
(410 ILCS 650/10) (Prior Code, § 21-3-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.054 HEALTH PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall have, at all times, a valid operating permit from the
County Health Department which regulates health standards.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-15)
§ 114.055 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the municipality.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-3-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.056 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, place, maintain, or operate any gambling
device or instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a place where
alcoholic liquor is sold or given away unless such gambling devices or
instruments are licensed and permitted by the state for the location in which
they are operated.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 5-19-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.057 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer or permit any
disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games, or riotous or
disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for
the sale of liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-3-18)
§ 114.058 PROHIBITED SALES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent, or employee of such licensee shall sell, give, or deliver alcoholic
liquor to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or
to any person known by him or her to be under legal disability or in need of
mental treatment.
   (B)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give, or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (Prior Code, § 21-3-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.059 PERSONS SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-3-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.060 MINORS; ENTRY ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to enter
upon premises where alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer, or wine are sold by the
holder of a Class “A” liquor license, unless accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian, or any licensed premises which derives its principal business from
the sale of service or other commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a liquor license, nor any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent, or employee of such licensee shall permit any
person under the age of 18 years not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian
to enter the licensed premises.
      (2)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
holder of a liquor license or his or her agent or employee may refuse to permit
entry onto the licensed premises of any person under the age of 18 years who is
unable to produce adequate written evidence of the fact that the person
accompanying such person under the age of 18 years is that person’s parent or
guardian.
(235 ILCS 5/4-1) (Prior Code, § 21-3-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.061 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift, or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (Prior Code, § 21-3-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.062 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   If a licensee or his agents or employees believe or have reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making such
sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
or her official duties.
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown, and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (Prior Code, § 21-3-23)
§ 114.063 TRANSFER OF IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   (A)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an identification
card; use the identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged
identification card; or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   (B)   No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under the age of 21
years is forbidden.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (Prior Code, § 21-3-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.064 POSTING WARNING.
   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be
displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed card which shall be
supplied by the Municipal Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
 
   UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
   “YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $500 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS
   MUNICIPALITY IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE
   FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.”
 
(Prior Code, § 21-3-25)
§ 114.065 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISIONS.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by an underaged person of
alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the
consumption by an underaged person under the direct supervision and approval of
the parent or parents of such underaged person in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this chapter.
(235 ILCS 5/6-20) (Prior Code, § 21-3-26)
§ 114.066 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer, or the Liquor Commissioner for the purpose of
making an inspection of such premises or any part thereof.
(235 ILCS 5/4-4) (Prior Code, § 21-3-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.067 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the Mayor having jurisdiction over the licensee. Such books and records need
not be maintained on the licensed premises, but must be maintained in the
state.
(235 ILCS 5/6-10) (Prior Code, § 21-3-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.068 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEE.
   In addition to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license is
subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to accept, receive, or borrow money or
anything of value directly or indirectly from any manufacturer or distributor
of alcoholic liquor.
(235 ILCS 5/6-5)
   (B)   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this chapter shall deny
or permit his or her agents or employees to deny any person the full and equal
enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of any
premises in which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold subject only to
the conditions and limitations established by law and applicable alike to all
citizens.
(235 ILCS 5/6-17)
   (C)   No licensee shall sell liquor to any persons on credit or in payment
for services rendered, but this does not apply to clubs and hotels and liquor
purchased for consumption off the premises.
(235 ILCS 5/6-28.5)
   (D)   No licensee shall fill or refill in whole or in part any original
package of alcohol with the same or other liquor and no liquor shall be sold
except in original packages.
(235 ILCS 5/6-22)
   (E)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of a municipality except in connection with
the operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the Act and where dramshop insurance coverage is provided.
(235 ILCS 5/6-15)
   (F)   (1)   An established place of business is a prerequisite to the
issuance of a license.
      (2)   Revocation of a license when a licensee ceases to operate the
business before the license expires is within the authority of the Commissioner
on the grounds of non-use.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Goode v. Thomas 31 Ill. App. 3d 674, 1975
§ 114.069 FALSE IDENTIFICATION; SELLING.
   (A)   Any person who sells, gives, or furnishes to any person under the age
of 21 years any false or fraudulent written, printed, or photostatic evidence
of the age and identity of such person or who sells, gives, or furnishes to any
person under the age of 21 years evidence of age and identification of any
other person is guilty of violating this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 21-3-30)
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any
licensee, his or her agent or employee, any written, printed, or photostatic
evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent, or not actually his or
her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase, or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any alcoholic
beverage, or who has in his or her possession any false or fraudulent, written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of violating
this chapter.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (Prior Code, § 21-3-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.070 UNDERAGE DRINKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage in
his or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place, or in
any place open to the public is guilty of violating this chapter.
   (B)   This section does not apply to possession by a person under the age of
21 years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order
of his or her parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (Prior Code, § 21-3-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.071 RESIDENTIAL DRINKING.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter where he or
she knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of
two or more persons where any one or more of the persons is under 18 years of
age and the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 18 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 18
is not otherwise permitted by this chapter; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 18 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (Prior Code, § 21-3-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.072 RENTING HOTEL ROOMS FOR DRINKING.
   Any person who rents a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or agent
thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall be used
for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of 21 years
shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
(235 ILCS 5/6-16) (Prior Code, § 21-3-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
VIOLATIONS
§ 114.085 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent, or other person
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as
said licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
(235 ILCS 5/10-2) (Prior Code, § 21-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.086 ACTS OF AGENT, EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY; KNOWLEDGE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such employer or licensee; and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or
her personally.
(235 ILCS 5/10-3) (Prior Code, § 21-4-2)
§ 114.087 REVOCATION OF LICENSE AFTER CONVICTION.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter,
the license of said licensee may, in the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked
and forfeited and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall
thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this chapter
for said licensee to continue to operate under such license.
(235 ILCS 5/10-4) (Prior Code, § 21-4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.088 REVOCATION OF LICENSE WHEN EMPLOYEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any officer, director, manager, or other employee in a position of
authority of any licensee under this chapter shall be convicted of any
violation of this chapter while engaged in the course of his or her employment
or while upon the premises described by the license, the license shall be
revoked and the fees paid thereon forfeited, both as to the holder of the
license and as to the premises, as if said licensee had himself or herself been
convicted.
(235 ILCS 5/10-5) (Prior Code, § 21-4-4)
§ 114.089 MISBRANDING.
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell, or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand known to the
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of the alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any such act to be
done, shall forfeit the alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers to the
state and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this chapter.
(235 ILCS 5/10-6) (Prior Code, § 21-4-5)
§ 114.090 ABATEMENT OF PLACE USED IN VIOLATION.
   Every lot, parcel, or tract of land, and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment, or place whatsoever,
together with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments, and machinery located
thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic
liquor, or whereon or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed, or
allowed any alcoholic liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed
of, or in any other matter used in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as
provided by the laws of the state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(235 ILCS 5/10-7) (Prior Code, § 21-4-6)
§ 114.091 USE OF PREMISES FOR ONE YEAR AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
for the same premises for a period of one year thereafter.
(235 ILCS 5/7-13) (Prior Code, § 21-4-7)
§ 114.092 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions, and duties with respect to licenses granted under this chapter:
      (1)   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties set out
for violations of specific articles of this chapter, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days or revoke any liquor license issued under
this chapter for violation of any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquors by any licensee, his or her agent, servant, or employee;
      (2)   To suspend or revoke any liquor license if the licensee makes any
false statement or misrepresentation in the application for a license;
      (3)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or
by the State Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      (4)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
the General Not for Profit Corporation Act, being 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.
or a foreign corporation functioning as a club in the state under a certificate
of authority issued under that Act has violated this chapter by selling or
offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license; and
      (5)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his or her
jurisdiction that any of the provisions of this Act, or any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act
upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall also have the power to
levy fines in accordance with §
114.094.
(235 ILCS 5/4-4) (Prior Code, § 21-4-8)
§ 114.093 COMPLAINT BY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Liquor Commissioner, stating that a licensee under this
chapter has been or is violating the provisions of this chapter or any
amendments hereto, or of any of the statutes of the state, enacted with
reference to the control of liquor. Such complaint shall be made in writing and
shall be signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (B)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
such belief is based. If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged,
there is reasonable cause for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for
hearing, and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(235 ILCS 5/7-7) (Prior Code, § 21-4-9)
§ 114.094 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The Liquor Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued by him or
her if he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the State Liquor Act, being 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., any valid
ordinance adopted by the municipality, or any applicable rule or regulation
established by the Liquor Commissioner or the State Commission which is not
inconsistent with law.
   (A)   Fine as opposed to suspension or revocation. In addition to suspension
and/or revocation, the Liquor Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for
such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation;
each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
No more than $10,000 in fines under this section may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his or her license. Proceeds from such fines
shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the municipal treasury, as the
case may be. (See Pub. Act 89-0063.)
   (B)   Revocation and suspension; notice.
      (1)   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with a three-day written notice to the licensee affording
the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be
open to the public and the Liquor Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to
writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings.
      (2)   If the Liquor Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   (C)   Hearing. The Liquor Commissioner shall, within five days after such
hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a
written order of revocation or suspension, and shall serve a copy of such order
within the five days upon the license. The findings of the Commissioner shall
be predicted upon competent evidence.
(235 ILCS 5/7-5) (Prior Code, § 21-4-10)
§ 114.095 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of a Local
Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license, or refusing for more than 30 days to
grant a heating upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may, within 20
days after notice of such order or action, by appeal by any resident of the
municipality under the jurisdiction of the Liquor Commissioner or any person
interested, to the State Commission.
   (B)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the State Commission from an
order or action of the Liquor Commissioner having the effect of suspending or
revoking a license, denying a renewal application, or refusing to grant a
license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed business
pending the decision of the State Commission and the expiration of the time
allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is
filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until
the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
(235 ILCS 5/7-9) (Prior Code, § 21-4-11)
§ 114.096 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS IN A YEAR.
   In any case in which a licensee appeals to the State Commission a suspension
or revocation by a Local Liquor Control Commissioner that is the second or
subsequent suspension or revocation placed on that licensee within the
preceding 12-month period, the licensee shall consider the suspension or
revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the Liquor Commissioner’s action
has been issued by the State Commission and shall cease all activity otherwise
authorized by the license. The State Commission shall expedite, to the greatest
extent possible, its consideration of any appeal that is an appeal of a second
or subsequent suspension or revocation within the past 12-month period.
(235 ILCS 5/7-9) (Prior Code, § 21-4-12)
§ 114.097 APPEAL LIMITATIONS FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   Any appeal of the decision and findings of the Liquor Commissioner in §
114.096 shall be limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings
of said Liquor Commissioner. The official record shall be a certified official
record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or
certified shorthand reporter. A copy of this record shall be filed by the
Liquor Commissioner within five days after notice of the filing of such appeal
is received by the municipality from State Commission.
(235 ILCS 5/7-9) (Prior Code, § 21-4-13)
CHAPTER 115: REFUSE HAULERS
Section
   
115.01   License
   
115.02   Application
   
115.03   No information, no license
   
115.04   Telephone required
   
115.05   Additional rules
   
115.06   License suspension
   
115.07   Reasons for revocation
   
115.08   Appeal of license suspension
§ 115.01 LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of garbage
and/or refuse hauler in the village without having first secured a license
therefor. Any garbage and/or refuse hauler doing business or performing
services within the municipality shall secure a license no later than May 15
each year. The annual fee for said license shall be $100.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-3) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION.
   Any person requiring a garbage and/or refuse hauler’s license shall make
written application therefor to the Village Clerk. The application shall
include the following:
   (A)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant;
   (B)   Names and addresses of his or her employees, if any; and
   (C)   List of all equipment to be used to perform collection services.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-4) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 115.03 NO INFORMATION, NO LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued by the village until such information as
requested in §
115.02 has been given to the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-6) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 115.04 TELEPHONE REQUIRED.
   Any garbage and/or refuse hauler doing business or performing services
within the village shall maintain a telephone for the receipt of service calls
or complaints. Any complaints must be given prompt and courteous attention,
and, in case of missed scheduled collections, the contractor shall investigate
and, if verified, shall arrange for pickup of said refuse within 24 hours after
the complaint is received.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-10) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 115.05 ADDITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may make such additional rules and regulations
for the licensing of garbage and/or refuse haulers as they may deem necessary.
   (B)   Such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to any law of the state
shall have the same force and effect as any ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-11) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 115.06 LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any garbage and/or refuse hauler doing business or performing service
within the village may be summarily shut down and its license to operate
suspended by the Mayor for a period not to exceed five days if the conduct of
that business or activity constitutes a nuisance in fact or a clear and present
danger to public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Within five days of such suspension, the Mayor shall call a hearing to
determine whether the suspended license should be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-12) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 115.07 REASONS FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Licenses and permits issued under this chapter may be revoked by the
Mayor in accordance with the provisions of this section for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The licensee has made fraudulent or misleading statements in his or
her application for the license;
      (2)   The licensee has violated ordinance provisions relating to the
license, the subject matter of the license, or the premises occupied; and
      (3)   The licensee has failed to pay the license fee or any penalty owing
the municipality.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be
given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail
to the licensee at his or her last known address not more than five nor less
than two days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing the Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision.
The licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to provide
evidence and cross-examine witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-13) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
§ 115.08 APPEAL OF LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor in regard to the denial of
an application for a license or in regard to the revocation of a license for
garbage and/or refuse hauling shall have a right to appeal to the Village Board
of Trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk,
within five days after notice of a denial of an application or of revocation of
a license or permit, a written statement setting forth specifically the grounds
for appeal. The appeal shall be heard by the Village Board within five days
after such filing, and its decision shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 15-1-14) (Ord. 83-1, passed 5-9-1983)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
135.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Meaning of words and phrases
   
130.02   Criminal code adopted
General Offenses
   
130.15   Discarded refrigerators
   
130.16   Sealing of wells
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 MEANING OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this title the words and phrases of 720 ILCS 5/2-
1 through 5/2-11; 5/2-13 through 5/2-16; and 5/2-19 and 5/2-20, as approved,
adopted, and amended, are hereby adopted by the village, as fully as if set out
herein.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-1)
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Criminal Code, 720 ILCS, as passed, approved, and amended by the
State General Assembly is hereby adopted by the village, the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the village; provided,
however, the penalties as provided by this title shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 27-1-2)
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.15 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building, or other structure, or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling, or other structure under his, her,
or its control in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended, or
discarded ice box, refrigerator, or other container which has an air-tight door
or lid, snap-lock, or other locking device which may not be released from the
inside without first removing the door or lid, snap-lock, or other device from
the ice box, refrigerator, or container.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 SEALING OF WELLS.
   (A)   Covering of wells required. It is hereby made and declared unlawful
for any owner, lessee, or occupant of any property within the village limits to
maintain, permit, or allow any well, cistern, cesspool, outhouse, or any other
open depression or excavation in the ground unless the same shall be covered in
such a manner that the same shall not constitute a dangerous and hazardous
condition.
   (B)   Notice to owner. The Building Inspector shall have the jurisdiction
over all wells, cisterns, cesspools, outhouses, and other excavations for the
purpose of eliminating dangerous and hazardous conditions therewith, and the
Building Inspector shall give notice of the existence of such condition to the
owner, lessee, or occupant of such property by personal service or by certified
mail to the last known address of such owners, lessee, or occupant. The notice
shall require such owner, lessee, or occupant to correct such dangerous or
hazardous condition within ten days after the date of such notice by filling
such well, cistern, cesspool, outhouse, or other open depression or excavation
with non-combustible material well packed to ground level or be covering the
same with a cover built to the following specifications.
   (C)   Specifications.
      (1)   Wells and cisterns not located inside a substantial building that
is kept locked, unless occupied, and shall be covered with a concrete cover of
a minimum thickness of four inches.
      (2)   The concrete cover shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and
of proper materials, and shall have a minimum compressive strength of 2,000
pounds per square inch.
      (3)   Where the well or cistern has a lining or walls in good condition
extending to the top of
the well or cistern, or other excavation, the cover shall extend not less than
one foot beyond the opening at all points.
      (4)   Where the well, cistern, or other excavation is not in good
condition or does not extend completely to the surface of the ground (having
adequate lining or walls thereon), the cover shall extend not less than two
feet beyond the edge of the opening at every point.
      (5)   If there is any opening in the well cover larger than six inches in
diameter, then the opening shall be closed by a wood or metal cover securely
bolted in place, and such cover shall be capable of supporting a weight of not
less than 250 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-7) (Ord. 265, passed 4-15-1957) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Barbed wire and electric fences
   
131.02   Admission fees; fraudulently avoiding payment of
   
131.03   Posting bills
§ 131.01 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any barbed wire or
other such sharp, pointed fence below eight feet in height, and no electrically
charged fence shall be erected or maintained except in an agricultural or
conservation zone district.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fraudulently enter, without payment
of the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture, concert, or other
place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of police
officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of public
entertainment or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print, or nail
any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind on any
curbstone, flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door, or gate
without the consent, in writing, of the owner of the wall, door, or gate;
provided, however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper
village and county official of election signs, polling place signs, and other
signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections, except
they may not be attached to a tree.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Disturbing lawful assemblies
   
132.02   Unlawful assembly
   
132.03   Disturbing the peace
   
132.04   Unlawful conduct on a public way
   
132.05   Discharge of firearms or bow and arrow
   
132.06   Games in street
   
132.07   Storage of explosives
   
132.08   Disorderly conduct
   
132.09   Assembling at public places, businesses
§ 132.01 DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God, or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct.
(ILCS 5/11-5-2) (Prior Code, § 27-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Whenever two or more persons, any of them armed with clubs or
dangerous weapons, two or more persons armed or unarmed, are unlawfully
riotously or tumultuously assembled in the village, it shall be the duty of
each of the village police officers to go among the persons so assembled or as
near them as safety will permit and in the name of the state command them
immediately to disperse; and if they do not obey, every person refusing to
disperse shall be deemed guilty of unlawful assembly.
   (B)   When persons so unlawfully assembled neglects or refuses on command to
disperse, it shall be the duty of the police to forthwith suppress such
assembly and disperse the persons composing it in such a manner as may be most
expedient.
(65 ILCS 5/11-5-2) (Prior Code, § 27-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the good order of society or the peace of any
private family or of any congregation within the village by any noise or
amusement or by vulgar or profane language, or by any disorderly or immoral
conduct.
(65 ILCS 5/11-5-2) (Prior Code, § 27-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT ON A PUBLIC WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person’s use
of a public way.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR BOW AND ARROW.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm, bow and arrow, or air gun in
the village or so that the bullet, arrow, missile, or projectile therefrom
enters the village without written permission from the Mayor, provided that
this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law to
discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her duty, nor to prevent any
citizen to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her personal
property.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.06 GAMES IN STREET.
   No person shall, upon any village street, fly any kite or play any game of
ball or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or
annoy any person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.07 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine; dynamite, and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess, or store at or in any place within the village, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite, or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder, and the like. No person shall keep, possess, or store
any gun or blasting powder or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the village in any quantity exceeding five pounds.
(65 ILCS 5/11-8-4) (Prior Code, § 27-2-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.08 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village, or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive device of any nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive device is concealed in such a place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer, or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.09 ASSEMBLING AT PUBLIC PLACES, BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Drive-in business. A drive-in business within the meaning of this
section shall be deemed to be any business where meals, sandwiches, cold
drinks, beverages, ice cream, food, drink, or consumer services are served
directly to or are permitted to be consumed by patrons in or upon automobiles,
motorcycles, or other vehicles parked on the premises.
   (B)   Declared public places. For the purpose of preserving public peace,
health, and safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in business,
together with means of ingress or egress, are hereby declared to be a public
place.
      (1)   No person on the premises of a drive-in business shall race the
motor of any motor vehicle, needlessly bring to a sudden start or stop any
motor vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made any loud
or unseemly noise, nuisance, or disturbance whereby the quiet and good order of
the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed.
      (2)   The following acts or conduct of any persons entering a drive-in
business or premises are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person found
guilty of any such acts shall be guilty of a violation of this section:
         (a)   Entering the premises of any drive-in business with any motor
vehicle of any description and parking such vehicle and leaving the premises
(thereby leaving such vehicle parked and unoccupied), without express consent
of the owner or operator of such business in which event, such motor vehicle
shall be subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the usual
impounding charges;
         (b)   Entering the premises in or upon a motor vehicle and using said
premises for cruising, racing as a shortcut to another street, or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully on said
premises;
         (c)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of any drive-in business,
other than in the building or in a legally parked motor vehicle; and
         (d)   For any person who, while on the premises of any drive-in
business, in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or abuse such person
or use any violently abusive language under circumstances reasonably calculated
to provoke a breach of the peace.
   (C)   Posting sign. It shall be the responsibility of the business operator
to post on the premises in a conspicuous location one or more signs bearing the
following legend in letters at least two inches or more in height and readable:
 
“CRUISING IN OR CONGREGATING AND LOITERING OUTSIDE A MOTOR VEHICLE IS UNLAWFUL.
NO UNOCCUPIED MOTOR VEHICLES MAY BE LEFT ON THE PREMISES WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF
THE OWNER.”
 
(Prior Code, § 27-4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.01   Destruction of public property
   
133.02   Petty theft
   
133.03   Criminal damage to property
   
133.04   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus; hydrants; equipment
   
133.06   Street signs; molesting of prohibited
   
133.07   Depositing leaves, grass, and the like into the streets
Anti-Litter
   
133.20   Definitions
   
133.21   Littering prohibited
   
133.22   Prevention of scattering
   
133.23   Receptacles; upsetting or tampering
   
133.24   Sidewalks, alleys free from litter
   
133.25   Owner to maintain private premises
   
133.26   Littering from vehicles
   
133.27   Littering from aircraft
   
133.28   Litter in parks
   
133.29   Handbills
   
133.30   Posting notices prohibited
   
133.31   Construction sites
   
133.32   Loading, unloading docks
   
133.33   Parking lots
   
133.34   Clearing of litter from open private property by village
Trespass
   133.44   Trespasses prohibited
   
133.45   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suspension
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.01 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the village shall deface, destroy, or in any way injure any
public property, or any other apparatus of the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 PETTY THEFT.
   (A)   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under
$300 and he or she knowingly:
      (1)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
      (2)   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner;
      (3)   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
      (4)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him or her to believe that the property was stolen, and:
         (a)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit
of the property;
         (b)   Knowingly uses, conceals, or abandons the property in such a
manner as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; and/or
         (c)   Uses, conceals, or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment, or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   Any of the following acts by a person shall be a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   To knowingly damage any property of another without his or her
consent;
   (B)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damage property of another;
   (C)   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his or her
consent;
   (D)   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent; or
   (E)   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his or her consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and
thereby, intend to interfere with the use by another of the land or building.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-2)
§ 133.04 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS; HYDRANTS; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, injure, damage, tamper
with, or destroy or deface any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire
engine, or other public or private firefighting equipment or any apparatus
appertaining to such equipment, or to intentionally open any fire hydrant
without proper authorization.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously, or negligently break,
deface, injure, or destroy any telegraph or telephone pole, post, or wire, or
any electric lightpost, pole, or electric conductor, wire or lamp, or any other
thing connected with the same or belonging thereto, or any water main, gas
main, pipe, or hydrant, or lamp or lamppost, or anything belonging to or
connected therewith or with any of them.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-4)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 STREET SIGNS; MOLESTING OF PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form, to
deface, disfigure, damage, or molest any of the street signs or parts thereof
located in the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.07 DEPOSITING LEAVES, GRASS, AND THE LIKE INTO THE STREETS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form,
to deposit, push, sweep, or otherwise move leaves, grass clippings, limbs, or
organic or inorganic debris onto any street, sidewalk, public right-of-way, or
any property belonging to the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, in any manner or form,
to burn any leaves, grass clippings, limbs, or organic or inorganic debris on
any street, sidewalk, public right-of-way, or any property belonging to the
village.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 5-19-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
ANTI-LITTER
§ 133.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used, or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include
helicopters and lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container of water-tight construction with
a tight-fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within. Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by the U.S. Mail service, including, but not
limited to, those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish, and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety, and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping, and transporting goods, wares,
commodities, and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river, or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building, or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional, or religious purposes,
together with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps,
vestibule, mailbox, and other structure(s) appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses, or fountains, and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the
village.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-1)
§ 133.21 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the village except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-3)
§ 133.23 RECEPTACLES; UPSETTING OR TAMPERING.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.24 SIDEWALKS, ALLEYS FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying, or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-5)
§ 133.25 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacle for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-6)
§ 133.26 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the village unless such vehicle is so constructed or so
loaded as to prevent any part of its load, contents, or litter from being blown
or deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the village, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.27 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop, or deposit any litter within
the village.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.28 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the village except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place of private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.29 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place, provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any
public place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises. No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any
handbill in or upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the occupant of such private premises. Provided,
however, that in case of private premises which are not posted against the
receiving of handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by
anyone upon such premises not to do so, may securely place any such handbill in
such a manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements
upon any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so
used when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   (C)   Exemptions for newspapers and political literature. The provisions of
this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only of
newspapers or political literature, except that newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (D)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of the vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (E)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.30 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or requited by law. No person, except the owner or tenant,
shall post any such notice on private property without the permission of the
owner or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.31 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-12)
§ 133.32 LOADING, UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating, or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain private receptacles for collection of litter, and shall, at all
times, maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public
place or other private premises.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-13)
§ 133.33 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this subchapter. Such premises shall include,
but not be limited to, such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters,
drive-in restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments,
parking lots, and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop
or park in a designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide
in an easily accessible location a minimum of one refuse container for every 50
parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight-fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as hereinabove
provided for the purposes intended, and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit any litter upon any such parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.34 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense(s) thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected
shall be in accordance with the state statutes.
   (B)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative shall be responsible
for the implementation of this enforcement program.
(Prior Code, § 27-5-15)
TRESPASS
§ 133.45 TRESPASSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to commit a
trespass within the municipality upon either public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.46 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUSPENSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
133.45, any of the following acts by any person, firm, or corporation shall be
deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the
provisions of §
133.45, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this subchapter;
the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises of another, or any part thereof, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises, or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning, or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to leave any such vehicle,
aircraft, or watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having
such right.
(Prior Code, § 27-6-2)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
134.01   Disturbing police officer
   
134.02   Impersonation of officer
   
134.03   Escapes; aiding in
   
134.04   Resisting, obstructing an officer
   
134.05   Refusing to aid an officer
§ 134.01 DISTURBING POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall, by violent conduct, disturb any police officer in the
discharge of his or her duties; nor shall any person assault, strike, or fight
with any police officers in the discharge of his or her duties or permit such
conduct in or upon any house or premises in the village owned or possessed by
him or her or under his or her management and control.
   (B)   Abusive or vulgar language in the presence of an officer does not
evoke into a crime unless the language provokes a breach of the peace or
constitutes fighting words evoking some violent response.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the village shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the village or shall, without being duly authorized by the village,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of the
village officer, or hinder, obstruct, resist, or otherwise interfere with any
village officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office, or attempt
to prevent any such officer from arresting any person, either by force or by
giving notice to such person, or attempt to rescue from such officer any person
in his or her custody, or impersonate any of the members of the police force of
the village, or maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person, wear
the uniform of or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the Police
Department, or use any of the signs, signals, or devices adopted and used by
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.03 ESCAPES; AIDING IN.
   (A)   Aid in escape. It shall be unlawful to rescue or attempt to rescue or
shall abet or encourage the rescue or escape of any person from the custody of
any officer or other person legally having him or her in charge, or shall
molest or interfere with any officer or other person so legally having him or
her in charge, or shall, in any manner, aid, abet, or encourage the rescue or
the attempt to escape from any person legally committed thereto, or shall
supply or attempt to supply any such person with any weapon or with any
implement or means whereby an escape might be affected, or with any
intoxicating liquors, drugs, or other article(s) without the consent of the
officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-10)
   (B)   Escapes. It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another
person’s use of a public way.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-11)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.04 RESISTING, OBSTRUCTING AN OFFICER.
   A person commits an offense when that person knowingly resists or obstructs
the performance of any authorized act of one known to the person to be a peace
officer within that peace officer’s official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-2)
§ 134.05 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   A person who refuses or knowingly fails, upon command, to reasonably aid a
person known by him or her to be a peace officer in the following commits a
misdemeanor:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense.
(Prior Code, § 27-4-3)
CHAPTER 135: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
135.01   Halloween curfew
Curfew
   
135.15   Established
   
135.16   Responsibility of parents
Parental Responsibility
   
135.30   Definitions
   
135.31   Parents, guardians responsible for acts
Cross-reference:
   Junk dealers and minors, see §
113.08
   Minors on premises that serve alcohol, see §
114.060
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 135.01 HALLOWEEN CURFEW.
   It shall be illegal for any person to engage in Halloween practice, commonly
called “Trick or Treat,” by calling at the homes or dwelling places within the
village, either masked or unmasked, except from October 17 to October 31 and no
later than 9:00 p.m. each evening.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-26) Penalty, see §
10.99
CURFEW
§ 135.15 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway at
the following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal
guardian, or other responsible companion at least 21 years of age, approved by
a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation which
the laws of the state authorize a person less than 18 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to
loiter, wander, stroll, or play in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk,
parkway, park, playground, or other public place in the village or in or on any
public building, place of amusement or entertainment or any vacant lot at any
time between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   Provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent any child from being in or on any such place in the company of his or
her parents, guardian, or other adult having lawful custody of such child.
      (3)   Nor shall this section prevent any child from being in or on such
place in the performance of a lawful errand or business with the consent of the
parent or guardian of such child.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-28) (Ord. 1997-11, passed 11-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
§ 135.16 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate §
135.15.
(Prior Code, § 27-2-28) (Ord. 1997-11, passed 11-10-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
§ 135.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACTS OF VANDALISM AND SIMILAR OFFENSES. Any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly damaging or
destroying or defacing any property within the village, whether such property
is owned by the state, county, or governmental body or owned by any private
person, firm, partnership, or association;
      (2)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly, by means of fire or
explosive device, damaging, debasing, or destroying any property of another
person;
      (3)   Maliciously, recklessly, negligently, or knowingly starting a fire
on land of another person without his or her consent;
      (4)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly depositing on land or in the
building of another person, without his or her consent, any stink bomb or any
offensive smelling compound and thereby interfering with the use and occupancy
by another of the land or building; or
      (5)   Maliciously, recklessly, or knowingly, and without authority,
entering into or obtaining control over any building, house trailer, motor
vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft or any part thereof of another person without
his or her consent.
   LEGAL GUARDIAN. A foster parent, a person appointed guardian of a person or
given custody of a minor by a Circuit Court of the state, but does not include
a person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor, or appointed
guardian, or given custody of a minor under the State Juvenile Court Act, being
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
   MINOR. A person who is above the age of 11 years, but not yet 18 years of
age.
   PARENT. The lawful father and mother of a minor child whether by birth or
adoption.
   PROPERTY. Any real estate including improvements thereon and tangible
personal property.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-1)
§ 135.31 PARENTS, GUARDIANS RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS.
   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental responsibility and said
minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described herein with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian in violation of this
subchapter upon the occurrence of the events described in divisions (A), (B),
and (C) below:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law, or
statute prohibiting willful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property, or shall have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of a violation of any ordinance,
law, or statute prohibiting willful and malicious act causing injury to a
person or property;
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service, with a certificate of personal service returned from the Village,
following said adjudication or non-judicial sanctions; and
   (C)   If, at any time within one year following receipt of notice set forth
in division (B) above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of
any ordinance, law, or statute as described in division (A) above, or shall
have incurred non-judicial sanctions from another official agency resulting
from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law, or statute as
described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 27-7-2)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
151.   RENTAL CODE
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title; purpose
   
150.002   Scope; effects on existing ordinances, remedies
   
150.003   Liberal interpretation required
   
150.004   Code enforcement guidelines
   
150.005   Occupancy permit required
   
150.006   Application for dwelling unit
   
150.007   Action on an application
   
150.008   Issuance of permit
   
150.009   Conditional permit
   
150.010   Rejection of application
   
150.011   Suspension of permit
   
150.012   Revocation of permit
   
150.013   Existing residential occupancies
   
150.014   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.025   Duties and powers of Code Official
   
150.026   Right of entry
   
150.027   Notice to owner, persons responsible
   
150.028   Form of notice
   
150.029   Service of notice
Right to Appeal
   
150.040   Petition
   
150.041   Appeals Board
   
150.042   Vote
   
150.043   Financial interest
   
150.044   Records
   
150.045   Meetings, quorum
Premises Conditions
   
150.060   Scope of regulations
   
150.061   Responsibility of owner
   
150.062   Vacant structures, land
   
150.063   Sanitation
   
150.064   Grading, drainage
   
150.065   Insect, rat control
   
150.066   Accessory structures
Exterior of Structures
   
150.080   Maintenance required
   
150.081   Structural members
   
150.082   Exterior surfaces
   
150.083   Window and door frames
Interior of Structures
   
150.095   General
Light, Ventilation, and Space Requirements
   
150.110   General
   
150.111   Light
   
150.112   Ventilation
   
150.113   Dwelling unit limitations
   
150.114   Space requirements
Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
   
150.125   General
   
150.126   Required facilities
   
150.127   Toilet rooms
   
150.128   Water system
   
150.129   Sewage system
Mechanical, Electrical Requirements
   
150.140   General
   
150.141   Heating facilities; residential buildings
   
150.142   Electrical facilities
Fire Safety Requirements
   
150.155   General
   
150.156   Means of egress
   
150.157   Accumulation and storage
   
150.158   Fire doors
   
150.159   Smoke detectors required
Responsibilities of Persons
   
150.170   General
   
150.171   Sanitary conditions
   
150.172   Extermination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   These regulations shall be known as the “Property Maintenance Code,”
hereinafter referred to as the “Property Maintenance Code,” “this Code,” or
“this chapter.”
   (B)   This chapter is to establish minimum acceptable standards, premises,
and facilities to protect health, safety, and general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-1)
§ 150.002 SCOPE; EFFECTS ON EXISTING ORDINANCES, REMEDIES.
   (A)   Scope. This chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare in all village neighborhoods by:
      (1)   Establishing minimum exterior maintenance standards for all non-
residential structures;
      (2)   Establishing minimum exterior maintenance standards for residential
structures;
      (3)   Establishing minimum maintenance standards for basic equipment and
facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, and sanitation of all
residential dwelling units and structures;
      (4)   Fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators, and occupants of
all structures; and
      (5)   Providing for administration, enforcement, and penalties.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-2)
   (B)   Effects on existing ordinances, remedies.
      (1)   This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy and use of all structures and premises, and does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established by ordinance which may be
additional or more stringent for the construction, repair, alteration, or use
of structures, equipment, or facilities.
      (2)   The provisions in this chapter shall not be construed to prevent
the enforcement of other ordinances or regulations which prescribe standards
other than those that are provided herein.
      (3)   The provisions in this chapter shall not be deemed to abolish or
impair existing remedies of the village or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous,
unsafe, and unsanitary.
      (4)   This chapter shall not effect violations of any other ordinances,
codes, or regulations existing prior to the effective date hereof, and any such
violation shall be governed and shall continue to be punishable to the full
extent of the law under the provisions of those ordinances, codes, or
regulations in effect at the time the violation was committed.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-4)
§ 150.003 LIBERAL INTERPRETATION REQUIRED.
   This chapter shall be construed liberally and justly to ensure public
health, safety, and welfare insofar as they are affected by the maintenance of
structures and premises.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-3)
§ 150.004 CODE ENFORCEMENT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Building, Construction Code.
      (1)   Any repairs or alterations to a structure or changes of use
therein, which may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this
chapter shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the
Building Code now in existence.
      (2)   Any repair, alteration, or replacement of structural elements of a
building, which may be required by the provisions of these guidelines, shall be
done in accordance with the applicable sections of the Building Code,
Electrical Code, Plumbing Code, or other applicable code or ordinance of this
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Zoning Code. The provisions of these guidelines shall not permit the
abridgement or violation of the Zoning Code,
Chapter 156, of the municipality, if any.
   (C)   Conflicts. Specific provisions of these guidelines indicate their
precedence over the requirements of other related codes and ordinances. Where
specific precedence is not indicated, the requirements of the most restrictive
code or ordinance prevail.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-5)
§ 150.005 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Hereinafter, upon change of occupants, no residential property shall
be occupied or used until an occupancy permit shall have been issued by the
Building Official stating that the premises complies with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple-family complexes which are less than ten years of age, have
50 or more units and contractual maintenance service or maintenance staff
available 24 hours a day, shall be inspected on a quarterly basis and are
exempt from the requirements of division (A) above. A selected number of vacant
units shall be inspected, upon request, once per quarter. A yearly inspection
shall be conducted of all common mechanical areas.
   (C)   The fee for the occupancy permit shall be $25 for each dwelling unit
occupied. If an inspection certificate has been issued, then an occupant may
move in on weekends and holidays when the department responsible for issuing
occupancy permits is closed. The occupant is required to obtain the written
permit three days after the department is open.
   (D)   Multiple-family complexes as identified in division (B) above shall
pay $25 per dwelling unit inspected at the time of inspection, and $100 for the
annual inspection.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-6)
§ 150.006 APPLICATION FOR DWELLING UNIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement on
an application for an occupancy permit for a dwelling unit as to the names,
relationships, or number of occupants who will occupy the dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.007 ACTION ON AN APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Code Official shall examine, or cause to be examined, all
applications for permits within a reasonable time after filing. He or she shall
cause the premises to be inspected within seven working days after filing. If
the premises are not inspected within the seven working days, then the permit
and certificate of compliance shall be automatically issued without an
inspection. If the premises are not in compliance with this chapter and all
laws and ordinances applicable thereto, the Code Official shall provide the
applicant with a list of defects that are not in compliance. Said defects shall
be listed with as much specificity as possible. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling unit and its premises will give the Code Official free access thereto,
at a reasonable time, for the purpose of such inspection.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be no fee for the original inspection, or the first
reinspection, if necessary. A reinspection shall be made within seven working
days, from receipt of the written request, if not then the permit and
certificate of compliance shall be automatically issued without a reinspection.
      (2)   If specific defects are found in the original inspection, the Code
Official shall not require additional defects to be corrected that were
discovered on a reinspection unless the new defects occurred after the original
inspection. There shall be a fee of $50 for every reinspection after the first
one.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-8)
§ 150.008 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If all the fees are paid and the Code Official is satisfied that the
premises and its occupancy are in compliance with this chapter and all laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, the Code Official shall issue the occupancy
permit as soon as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-9)
§ 150.009 CONDITIONAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Occupancy shall be permitted on a conditional basis when, in the
judgment of the Code Official, practical difficulties interfere with the
completing all repairs required to bring the premises into full compliance with
this chapter prior to permitting occupancy.
   (B)   However, no conditional permit shall be issued when there is a
condition on the premises which can threaten the health or safety of an
occupant. No conditional permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
chapter for premises which have been newly constructed, newly altered, or on
which a change in use is proposed unless a certificate of use and occupancy has
first been issued under the provisions of the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-10)
§ 150.010 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   If the application does not comply with the requirements of all pertinent
laws, the Code Official shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-11)
§ 150.011 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the occupancy is not commenced
within six months after issuance of a permit or if the occupancy is terminated.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-12)
§ 150.012 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Code Official may revoke a permit in case of any false statement or
misrepresentation of facts in the application on which a permit was based, or
in the event a structure or part thereof is condemned pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-13)
§ 150.013 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES.
   The provisions of §
150.005 shall not apply to any residential occupancy in existence at the time
this chapter takes effect, unless there is a change in the occupancy of any
person after said date, or complaint filed.
(Prior Code, § 29-1-14)
§ 150.014 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms
shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings indicated in this
section.
      (2)   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
      (3)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are noted in this chapter
and are defined in the Building, Plumbing, and/or Mechanical Codes, they shall
have the same meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
      (4)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined under the provisions
of this chapter or under the provisions of the Building, Plumbing, and/or
Mechanical Codes, they shall have ascribed to them their ordinarily accepted
meanings or such as the context herein may imply.
(Prior Code, § 29-2-1)
   (B)   Definitions.
      APPROVED. As applied to a material, device, or method of construction
shall mean approved by the Code Official under the provisions of this chapter,
or approved by other authority designated by law to give approval in the matter
in question.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly below and partly
above grade, and having at least one-half its height above grade. (See CELLAR.)
      BUILDING CODE. The Building Code officially adopted by the legislative
body of the jurisdiction, or such other code as may be officially designed by
the legislative body of the jurisdiction for the regulation of construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy,
and maintenance of buildings and structures.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official designated by the jurisdiction to enforce
building, zoning, or similar laws, or a duly authorized representative.
      CELLAR. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade and having at least one-half its height below grade. (See BASEMENT.)
      CENTRAL HEATING. The heating system permanently installed and adjusted so
as to provide the distribution of heat to all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and
water closets compartments from a source outside of these rooms.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter, or any duly authorized representative.
      CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for use or occupancy.
      CONDEMNATION. The act of judicially condemning.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a residential structure which are
arranged, designed, used, or intended for use by one family plus not more than
four lodgers for living or sleeping purposes, and which include complete
kitchen facilities permanently installed.
      DWELLINGS.
         (a)   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant
where meals are provided for compensation to three or more persons, but not
more than ten, who are not members of the keeper’s family.
         (b)   DORMITORY. Any building containing 11 or more rooming or
dormitory units. A DORMITORY also provides a public restroom, a laundry room,
foyer, storage space for out-of-season articles of the residents, public
lounge, and recreational space for the use of the residents.
         (c)   DORMITORY ROOM. A habitable room used or intended to be used by
four or more individuals for sleeping or study purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets,
storage space, and stairwells.
         (d)   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations
designed for use by transients, travelers, or temporary guests with no
provisions in such accommodations for cooking in any individual room or suite.
Facilities provided may include maid service, laundering of linen used on the
premises, telephone, and secretarial or desk service.
         (e)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY APARTMENT BUILDING. A building or portion
thereof, designed or altered for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other.
         (f)   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling unit designed for the occupancy
by one family.
         (g)   ROOMING HOUSE. A building in which sleeping quarters (but not
meals or cooking facilities) are provided by pre-arrangement for compensation
on a weekly or longer basis for three or more persons.
         (h)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two separate dwelling
units with not more than five lodgers or boarders per family.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The official designated herein or otherwise charged
with the responsibilities of administering this chapter, or the official’s
authorized representative.
      EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poison spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other approved pest elimination.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption
(excluding servants), or a group of not more than three (including servants and
roomers) who need not be related by blood, marriage, or adoption, living
together and maintaining a common household, but not including sororities,
fraternities, or other similar organizations.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating, or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage, or utility
space, and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACE.
      HOTEL. See DWELLINGS.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or
premises of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.
      LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET. To permit possession or occupancy of a
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, or structure by a person who
shall be legal owner or not be the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement, or licensee, or pursuant to a recorded
or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
      LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open on a daily, overnight, or per meal basis to transient guests.
      LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE UNIT. A habitable room used or intended to be
used by up to three individuals for sleeping purposes, excluding bathrooms,
toilet rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets,
storage space, and stairwells.
      MAINTENANCE. Conformance of a building and its facilities to the Code
under which the building was constructed.
      MOTEL. A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile
tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space conveniently
located to each unit, including auto courts, motels, motor lodges, or other
similar type uses.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY (MULTIPLE) DWELLINGS. See DWELLINGS.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age (including the owner or
operator) living and sleeping in a dwelling unit or having actual possession of
said dwelling or rooming unit.
      OPENING AREA. The part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a structure or
premises which are let or offered for occupancy.
      OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property.
      PERSON. Includes a corporation or co-partnership as well as an
individual.
      PLUMBING. The practice, materials, and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances, and
appurtenances within the scope of the Plumbing Code.
      PLUMBING FIXTURE. A receptacle or device which is either permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises, and
demands a supply of water therefrom; or discharges used water, liquid-borne
waste materials, or sewage either directly or indirectly to the drainage system
of the premises; or which requires both a water supply connection and a
discharge to the drainage system of the premises.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures therein. Whenever the words multiple-family dwelling, residence
building, dwelling unit, lodging or rooming house, lodging or rooming house
unit, or premises are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words, “or any part thereof.”
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Includes the following:
         (a)   The physical condition or use of any premises regarded as a
public nuisance at common law;
         (b)   Any physical condition, use, or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences
or structures;
         (c)   Any premises which have unsanitary sewerage or plumbing
facilities;
         (d)   Any premises designated as unsafe for human habitation or use;
         (e)   Any premises which are manifestly capable of being a fire
hazard, or are manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb, or
property;
         (f)   Any premises from which the plumbing, heating, and/or facilities
required by this chapter have been removed; or from which utilities have been
disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective, or the required
precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
         (g)   Any premises which are unsanitary, or which are littered with
rubbish or garbage, or which have an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
         (h)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; overcrowded, open, vacant, or
abandoned; damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide shelter; or in
danger of collapse or failure and is dangerous to anyone on or near the
premises.
      RENOVATION. A building and its facilities made to conform to present day
minimum standards of sanitation, fire prevention, and safety.
      RESIDENCE BUILDING. A building in which sleeping accommodations or
sleeping accommodations and cooking facilities as a unit are provided; except
when classified as an institution under the Building Code.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage,
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke,
and other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, and dust and other similar materials.
      SANITARY. Rules and conditions of health, especially of absence of dirt
and agents of infection or tending to promote health and healthful conditions.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground, including a
fence or freestanding wall. A sign, billboard, or other advertising medium,
detached or projecting, shall be construed to be a STRUCTURE.
      SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished, or provided by the owner or operator.
      VENTILATION. The process of supplying and removing air by natural or
mechanical means to or from any space:
         (a)   VENTILATION by power-driven devices; and
         (b)   VENTILATION by opening to outer air through windows, skylights,
doors, louvers, or stacks without wind-driven devices.
      WORKING DAYS. Those days during which the Village Hall is open for
business.
      WORKMANLIKE. Whenever the words “workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair” are used in this chapter, they shall mean that such maintenance and
repair shall be made in a reasonably skillful manner.
      YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building extending
along the entire length of street, or rear or interior lot line.
(Prior Code, § 29-2-2)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.025 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   The Code Official shall enforce all provisions of this chapter relative to
the maintenance of structures and premises, except as may otherwise be
specifically provided for by other regulations.
   (A)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
written notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe conditions to ensure
compliance with the code requirements for the safety, health, and general
welfare of the public.
   (B)   Coordination of enforcement. Inspection of premises, the issuance of
written notices and orders, and enforcement thereof shall be the responsibility
of the Code Official so charged by the village. Whenever, in the opinion of the
Code Official initiating an inspection under this chapter, it is deemed
necessary or desirable to have inspections by any other department, the
Official shall make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of such
inspections so as to minimize the number of visits by inspectors, and to confer
with the other departments for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders
before any are issued. A department shall not, however, delay the issuance of
any emergency order which it determines must be ordered.
(Prior Code, § 29-3-1)
§ 150.026 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   If any owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a structure subject to
the provisions of this chapter refuses, impedes, inhibits, interferes with,
restricts, or obstructs entry and free access to any part of the structure
where inspection authorized by this chapter is sought, the administrative
authority may seek, in a court of competent jurisdiction, an order that such
owner, occupant, or other person in charge cease and desist with such
interference.
   (A)   Access of owner or operator. Every occupant of a non-residential
structure or premises shall give the owner or operator thereof, or agent or
employee, access to any part of such structure or its premises at reasonable
times for the purpose of making inspections as are necessary to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Credentials. The Code Official or the Code Official’s authorized
representative shall disclose proper credentials of their respective office for
the purpose of inspecting any and all buildings and premises in the performance
of duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-3-2)
§ 150.027 NOTICE TO OWNER, PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   Whenever the Code Official determines that there has been a violation of
this chapter or has reasonable grounds to believe that a violation has
occurred, notice shall be given to the owner or the person or persons
responsible in the manner described below.
(Prior Code, § 29-3-3)
§ 150.028 FORM OF NOTICE.
   Such notice prescribed in §
150.027 shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a description of the real estate for identification;
   (C)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is being
issued; and
   (D)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the repairs
and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-3-4)
§ 150.029 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner if a copy
thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family of suitable age
and discretion who shall be informed of the contents thereof; or known address
with return receipt requested; or if the certified or registered letter is
returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such
notice.
(Prior Code, § 29-3-5)
RIGHT TO APPEAL
§ 150.040 PETITION.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or of any rule or
regulation adopted pursuant thereto, may request and shall be granted a hearing
on the matter before the Board.
   (B)   Provided that such person shall file, in the office of the Board, a
written petition requesting such hearing and containing a statement of the
grounds therefor within 20 days after the day the notice was served.
(Prior Code, § 29-4-1)
§ 150.041 APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   In order to protect existing structures in the jurisdiction by
vigorous enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, there shall be and is
hereby created a Code Appeals Board, hereafter referred to as the Board,
consisting of five members who shall be appointed by the chief executive of the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   The Appeals Board for this chapter shall be the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 29-4-2)
§ 150.042 VOTE.
   The Board shall hear all appeals relative to the enforcement of this
chapter, and by a concurring vote of the majority of its members may reverse or
affirm wholly or partly, or may modify, the decision appealed from, and shall
make such order or determination as in its opinion ought to be made. Failure to
secure such concurring votes shall be deemed a confirmation of the decision of
the Code Official.
(Prior Code, § 29-4-3)
§ 150.043 FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   A member of the Board shall not participate in any hearings or vote on any
appeal in which that member has a direct or indirect financial interest, or is
engaged as a contractor, or is engaged in the preparation of plans and
specifications, or in which that member has any personal interest.
(Prior Code, § 29-4-4)
§ 150.044 RECORDS.
   The Secretary of the Board shall keep a record of each meeting so that the
record shows clearly the basis for each decision made by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 29-4-5)
§ 150.045 MEETINGS, QUORUM.
   All meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at such times as the Board may determine, provided that the establishment of
the meeting date, time, and location are consistent with the overall intent of
this section and are in accordance with the State Open Meetings Act, being 5
ILCS 120/1 et seq. and other applicable state laws.
(Prior Code, § 29-4-6)
PREMISES CONDITIONS
§ 150.060 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum conditions for
maintenance of exterior property, premises, and structures. Premises shall
comply with the conditions herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-1)
§ 150.061 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of the premises shall maintain such structures and premises
in compliance with these requirements.
   (B)   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy or use permits which do not comply with the requirements of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-2)
§ 150.062 VACANT STRUCTURES, LAND.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure, and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-3)
§ 150.063 SANITATION.
   All exterior property areas and premises shall be maintained in a clean,
safe, and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-4)
§ 150.064 GRADING, DRAINAGE.
   All premises shall be graded and maintained so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any structure located
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-5)
§ 150.065 INSECT, RAT CONTROL.
   An owner of a structure or property shall be responsible for the
extermination of insects, nits, vermin, or other pests in all exterior areas of
the premises, except that the occupant shall be responsible for such
extermination in the exterior areas of the premises of a single-family
dwelling. Whenever an infestation exists in the shared or public parts of the
premises of other than a single-family dwelling, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-6)
§ 150.066 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   All accessory structures, including detached garages, swimming pools,
jacuzzis, fences, and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-5-7)
EXTERIOR OF STRUCTURES
§ 150.080 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained structurally sound and
sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of the occupants
and so as to protect the occupants from the environment.
(Prior Code, § 29-6-1)
§ 150.081 STRUCTURAL MEMBERS.
   All supporting structural members of all structures shall be kept
structurally sound, free of deterioration, and maintained capable of safely
bearing the dead and live loads imposed upon them.
(Prior Code, § 29-6-2)
§ 150.082 EXTERIOR SURFACES.
   Every foundation, exterior wall, roof, and all other exterior surfaces shall
be maintained in a manner which will comply with the following standards.
   (A)   Foundations, exterior walls, and roofs. Every foundation, exterior
wall, and roof of every building shall be substantially weather-tight and
rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be kept
free of holes or breaks, and loose or rotting boards, timbers, bricks, stones
and other structural material; and shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (B)   Exterior surfaces. All exterior surfaces of any building shall be
reasonably capable of withstanding the effects of the elements and decay. Any
exterior surface which is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating, or which has
lost its capability to reasonably withstand the effects of the elements shall
be repaired.
   (C)   Windows and exterior doors. Every window, storm window, exterior door,
exterior storm door, basement or cellar door, and hatchway shall be
substantially weather-tight, wind-tight, water-tight, and rodent proof; shall
be equipped with all appropriate hardware; and shall be capable of being easily
opened unless designed to be fixed.
   (D)   Decorative features. All cornices, entablatures, belt courses,
corbels, terra cotta trim, wall facings, and similar decorative features shall
be maintained in good repair and proper anchorage, and in a safe condition.
   (E)   Protective railings. Any handrails, guardrails, or other types of
protective railings required to be constructed or installed under any provision
of the municipal code of the village or which have otherwise been constructed
and installed shall be maintained in good repair.
   (F)   Chimneys. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and similar
appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe, sound, and in good repair.
   (G)   Stairs and porches. Every stair, porch, balcony, ramp, and all
appurtenances attached thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and
capable of supporting the loads to which it is subjected and shall be kept in
sound conditions and in good repair.
   (H)   Roof drainage. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain water
from causing dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
building. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a
nuisance to owners or occupants of adjacent premises, or that creates a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 29-6-3)
§ 150.083 WINDOW AND DOOR FRAMES.
   Every window, door, and frame shall be constructed and maintained in such
relation to the adjacent wall construction so as to exclude rain as completely
as possible, and to substantially exclude wind from entering the dwelling or
structure.
(Prior Code, § 29-6-4)
INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES
§ 150.095 GENERAL.
   The interior of a structure and its equipment shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound, and in a sanitary condition so as not to pose a
threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the occupants or visitors, and to
protect the occupants from the environment.
   (A)   Lead-based paint. Lead-based paint with a lead content of more than
0.5% shall not be applied to any interior or exterior surface of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, or child care facility, including fences and outbuildings at
these locations. Existing interior and exterior painted surfaces of dwelling
units and child care facilities that contain an excess of 0.5% lead shall be
removed or covered with paneling or other suitable covering approved by the
Code Official.
   (B)   Sanitation. The interior of every structure shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish, refuse, or
garbage. Rubbish, garbage, and other refuse shall be properly kept inside
temporary storage facilities until properly disposed.
   (C)   Storage. Garbage or rubbish shall not be allowed to accumulate or be
stored in public halls or stairways.
   (D)   Insect and rat harborage. All structures shall be kept free from
insect and rat infestation, and where insects or rats are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
re-infestation.
(Prior Code, § 29-7-1)
LIGHT, VENTILATION, AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.110 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for the light, ventilation, and space for the
occupancy of a structure.
      (2)   All light, ventilation, and space conditions shall comply with the
requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such light
and ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these requirements.
      (2)   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy or use any premises which do not comply with the following
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Alternative devices. In place of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, alternative arrangement of windows, louvers, or
other methods and devices that will provide the equivalent minimum performance
requirements shall be permitted when complying with the Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 29-8-1)
§ 150.111 LIGHT.
   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient light so as not to endanger
health and safety.
   (A)   Habitable spaces.
      (1)   Every habitable space shall have at least one window of approved
size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court.
      (2)   The minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every
habitable space shall be 8% of the floor area of such room except in kitchens
when artificial light is provided in accordance with the provisions of the
Building Code.
      (3)   In one-family dwellings units, rooms and spaces without openings to
the outdoors may be ventilated through an adjoining room. In one-family
dwelling units, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining room shall be at
least 14 square feet.
   (B)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in every
building, other than one- and two-family dwellings, shall be adequately lighted
at all times with an illumination of at least a 60 watt standard incandescent
light bulb or equivalent.
(Prior Code, § 29-8-2)
§ 150.112 VENTILATION.
   (A)   (1)   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient natural or
mechanical ventilation so as not to endanger health and safety.
      (2)   Where mechanical ventilation is provided in lieu of the natural
ventilation, such mechanical ventilating systems shall be maintained in
operation during the occupancy of any structure or portion thereof.
   (B)   When part of the air provided by a mechanical ventilation system is
recirculated, the portion or volume of air recirculated shall not be
recirculated to a different residential space or occupancy of dissimilar use
from which it is withdrawn.
      (1)   Toilet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall
comply with the light and ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as
required by this subchapter except that a window shall not be required in
bathrooms or water closet compartments equipped with an approved mechanical
ventilation system. One-family dwelling units built prior to 1978 are not
required to comply with the regulation.
      (2)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy (see
Chapter 156), cooking shall not be permitted in any sleeping room or dormitory
unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in a sleeping room or dormitory unit.
      (3)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer venting systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be vented in accordance with the
manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 29-8-3)
§ 150.113 DWELLING UNIT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Separation of units. Dwelling units shall be separate and apart from
each other. Sleeping rooms shall not be used as the only means of access to
other sleeping rooms or habitable spaces.
   (B)   Privacy. Hotel units, lodging units, and dormitory units shall be
designed to provide privacy, and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
(Prior Code, § 29-8-4)
§ 150.114 SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes
shall have adequate floor space.
   (B)   Water closet accessibility. In all dwelling units other than a one-
family dwelling every room used as a bedroom shall have access to at least one
water closet without passing through another room used as a bedroom.
   (C)   Prohibited use. Kitchens, non-habitable spaces, and public spaces
shall not be used for sleeping purposes.
(Prior Code, § 29-8-5)
PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.125 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
plumbing facilities and fixtures to be provided. All plumbing facilities and
fixtures shall comply with the requirements herein described insofar as they
are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and fixtures in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy or
use any structure or portion thereof or premises which does not comply with the
following requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-9-1)
§ 150.126 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall include its own plumbing
facilities which are in proper operating condition, can be used in privacy, and
are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human waste.
   (B)   Water closet and lavatory. Every dwelling unit shall contain within
its walls a room separate from habitable spaces, which affords privacy and a
water closet supplied with cold running water. A lavatory shall be placed in
the same room as the water closet or located in another room, in close
proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which said water closet
is located. The lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (C)   Bathtub or shower. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which
affords privacy to a person in said room and which is equipped with a bathtub
or shower supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (D)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink apart
from the lavatory required and such sink shall be supplied with hot and cold
running water.
   (E)   Rooming houses.
      (1)   At least one water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever
said facilities are shared.
      (2)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times.
   (F)   Hotels.
      (1)   Where private water closets, lavatories, and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory, and one bathtub or shower accessible
from a public hallway shall be provided on each floor for each ten occupants.
      (2)   Each lavatory, bathtub, or shower shall be supplied with hot and
cold water at all times.
(Prior Code, § 29-9-2)
§ 150.127 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall be designed and arranged to
provide privacy.
   (B)   Direct access. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall not be used as a
passageway to a hall or other space, or to the exterior.
   (C)   Same story. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, lodging
houses, or dormitory units, unless located within such respective units, or
directly connected thereto, shall be provided on the same story with such
units, and be accessible only from a common hall or passageway.
(Prior Code, § 29-9-3)
§ 150.128 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub, or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet, or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public
water system or to an approved private water system. All sinks, lavatories,
bathtubs, and showers shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (B)   Water heating facilities. Where hot water is provided, water heating
facilities shall be installed in an approved manner, properly maintained, and
properly connected with hot water lines to the fixtures required to be supplied
with the hot water.
(Prior Code, § 29-9-4)
§ 150.129 SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub, or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet, or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public
sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Every plumbing stack, waste, and sewer line shall be so installed
and maintained as to function properly and shall be kept free from
obstructions, leaks, and defects to prevent structural deterioration or health
hazards.
      (2)   All repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the Building and Plumbing Code.
(Prior Code, § 29-9-5)
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.140 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided. All
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment shall comply with the
requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements.
      (2)   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy or use any premises which does not comply with the following
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-10-1)
§ 150.141 HEATING FACILITIES; RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every owner of any structure who rents, leases, or lets one or more
dwelling units or guest rooms on terms, either express or implied, to furnish
heat to the occupants thereof, shall supply sufficient heat during the period
from October 1 to May 15 to maintain a room temperature of not less than 65°F
(18°C) in all habitable spaces, bathrooms, and toilet rooms during the hours
between 6:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of each day and maintain a temperature of not
less than 60°F (16°C) during other hours.
   (B)   The temperature shall be measured at a point three feet (914
millimeters) above the floor and three feet (914 millimeters) from the exterior
walls.
(Prior Code, § 29-10-2)
§ 150.142 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Every building or part thereof used for human
occupancy shall be adequately and safely provided with an electrical system in
compliance with the requirements of this section. The provisions of this
section shall be considered absolute minimum requirements.
   (B)   Lighting fixtures. Every public hall, interior stairway, water closet
compartment, bathroom, and laundry room shall contain at least one electrical
lighting fixture.
   (C)   Service. When the electrical system requires modification to correct
inadequate service, then service shall be corrected to a minimum of 100 ampere,
three wire service.
   (D)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring, and appliances shall
be installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all applicable
laws. All electrical equipment shall be of an approved type.
(Prior Code, § 29-10-3)
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.155 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum fire
safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
      (2)   All structures shall be constructed and maintained to prevent and
avoid fire hazards, and in a manner conducive to fire safety. All fire safety
facilities and equipment shall comply with the requirements herein prescribed
insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such fire
safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements and the
Fire Prevention Code.
      (2)   A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for
occupancy or use any premises which does not comply with the following
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-11-1)
§ 150.156 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. A safe, continuous, and unobstructed means of egress shall be
provided from the interior of a structure to the exterior at a street, or to a
yard, court, or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
   (B)   Direct exit. Every dwelling unit shall have access directly to the
outside or to an exit access corridor that leads directly to the outside.
   (C)   Locked doors.
      (1)   All doors located in the required means of egress shall be readily
operable from the inner side without the use of keys.
      (2)   Exits from multiple-family dwelling units, hotel units, lodging
houses, and dormitory units shall not lead through other such units, or through
toilet room or rooms. “Dead-bolt” locks are allowable, provided the key is in
place at all times and the structure is occupied.
   (D)   Fire escapes. All required fire escapes shall be maintained in working
condition and structurally sound.
   (E)   Dual egress. Every residential building exceeding one story in height
above grade, not including basements, shall be provided with not less than two
approved independent exits from each floor above the first floor, fully
accessible to each occupant on the floor or provide safety ladders for each
bedroom above the first floor.
(Prior Code, § 29-11-2)
§ 150.157 ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE.
   Waste, refuse, or other materials shall not be allowed to accumulate in
stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes, or other means of egress.
(Prior Code, § 29-11-3)
§ 150.158 FIRE DOORS.
   (A)   All required fire resistance rated doors or smoke barriers shall be
maintained in good working order, including all hardware necessary for the
proper operation thereof.
   (B)   The use of door stops, wedges, and other unapproved hold-open devices
is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 29-11-4)
§ 150.159 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Smoke detectors shall be provided outside of each sleeping area in the
immediate vicinity of the bedrooms and on each additional story of the
dwelling, including basements and cellars but not including crawl spaces and
uninhabitable attics.
   (B)   In dwellings or dwelling units with split levels, a smoke detector
need be installed only on the upper level, provided the lower level is less
than one full story below the upper level, except that if there is a door
between levels then a detector is required on each level.
   (C)   In multiple dwelling units a smoke detector shall be installed in all
common hallways or rooms.
   (D)   All detectors shall be connected to a sounding device or other
detectors to provide, when actuated, an alarm which will be audible in all
sleeping areas.
   (E)   All detectors shall be approved and listed and shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
(Prior Code, § 29-11-5)
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS
§ 150.170 GENERAL.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the responsibilities of
persons for the maintenance of structures, and the equipment and premises
thereof. The owner has the ultimate legal responsibility to comply with this
section.
(Prior Code, § 29-12-1)
§ 150.171 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof shall keep
that part of the structure or premises thereof which that occupant occupies,
controls, or uses in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof
shall dispose of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof
shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
garbage disposal facilities, or if such facilities are not available, by
placing it in approved garbage storage containers.
(Prior Code, § 29-12-2)
§ 150.172 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (B)   Multiple occupancy. Every owner, agent, or operator of two or more
dwelling units or multiple occupancies, or non-residential structures and
rooming houses, shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects,
rats, or others in the public or shared areas of the structure and premises.
(Prior Code, § 29-12-3)
CHAPTER 151: RENTAL CODE
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Registration of rental property
   
151.05   Application requirements
   
151.06   Time limit for registration; term
   
151.07   Registration renewal
   
151.08   Changes in ownership
   
151.09   Local agent required
   
151.10   Inspections
   
151.11   Safety, security
   
151.12   Compliance with village regulations
   
151.13   Revocation of registration
   
151.14   Administrative appeals
   
151.15   Application for residential rental occupancy permit
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Rental Registration Code of the
Village of Livingston” (hereinafter referred to as “the village”), hereinafter
referred to as “this code” or “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter adopted herein to collect current and
accurate information identifying existing rental properties and to assist with
efforts of various village officials and departments, including the Code
Official, Police Department, and Fire Department, in maintaining accurate
records of residential rental properties and their tenants to enable said
officials and departments to perform their respective duties. It is further the
purpose of the village to assure that rental housing in the village is
maintained in a good, safe, and sanitary condition and does not create a
nuisance or blighted condition to the surroundings.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The Code Official of the village or his or her authorized
designee.
   DUPLEX. A building with two rental units.
   LOCAL RESPONSIBLE AGENT. A person that has charge, care, or control of a
building in whole, or part thereof, in which rental units are maintained.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY BUILDING. A structure that contains three or more rental
units.
   OWNER. One or more persons, jointly, severally, or in common, or any
organization, in whom is vested all or part of the legal title to the property,
or all or part of the beneficial ownership and a right to present use and
enjoyment of the premises, including a mortgagee in possession. As used herein,
an ORGANIZATION shall include a corporation, trust, estate, partnership,
association, or any other legal or commercial entity. The term shall not
include a lessee who previously occupied a rental unit and who is subleasing
the unit for the remaining part of his or her lease.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. Chapter 150 and subsequent ordinances as adopted
by the village, as amended.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT. All agreements, written or oral, and rules and regulations
embodying the terms and conditions concerning the use and enjoyment of rented
premises. It shall also include subleases.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. A structure with one or more residential units which are
leased for occupancy including mobile homes, module homes, and any other
structure, permanent, temporary, or mobile, but excluding hotels, motels, and
bed-and-breakfast inns.
   RENTAL UNIT. One or more rooms in a structure arranged, designed, and used
as a residence or living quarters by one or more persons who are not its owner
(s), and contained within a rental property as defined herein. Each unit of a
duplex, tri-plex, or apartment building constitutes a separate unit. RENT,
RENTED, or RENTAL means any payment made to an owner or an owner’s agent
pursuant to a rental agreement. This shall not include nursing homes, hotels,
motels, public housing owned by governmental agency, or housing owned and
operated by state university.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A residential structure with one rental unit.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.04 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Existing rental housing. The owner of any rental property situated
within the corporate limits of the village, and which contains one or more
dwelling units, other than owner-occupied residences, which is rented or
available to rent or otherwise occupied by a non-owner, shall register said
rental property with the village as rental housing and shall designate for each
rental unit under his or her ownership on which such rental property is
contained a local individual as the responsible local agent who shall be
legally responsible for operating the registered rental unit in compliance with
all of the provisions in codes and ordinances of the village, including, but
not limited to, the “Property Maintenance Code” (Chapter 150), and shall also
be responsible for providing access to said rental unit and property for
compliance, and who shall serve as the owner’s designated agent for the purpose
of receiving service of summons for ordinance violation charges in the owner’s
stead.
   (B)   New rental property. All new rental property, including non-rental
property which is newly converted to rental housing, shall be registered with
the village prior to use as rental property.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications for registration shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
Applications may be made by the owner of record, provided that where an
applicant is not shown as the owner of record in accordance with the
information regularly furnished to the village by the County Recorder of Deeds,
additional satisfactory evidence of ownership may be required.
   (B)   The application shall be in writing and signed and sworn to by the
applicant. It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false statement in an
application for the registration. The application shall be made in such form
and in accordance with such instructions as may be furnished by the village and
shall include reasonable detail. Such application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name, street address, and telephone number(s) of the owner(s) of
the rental unit and the name and address of the person completing the
application;
      (2)   Name, street address, and telephone number(s) of the owner’s agent
responsible for the management of the rental unit, including a phone contact
information for notifications at all times;
      (3)   Legal address of the premises;
      (4)   Number of units in each rental property;
      (5)   The name of each head of household, spouse, child(ren), or
unrelated persons who will occupy the rental unit. The tenant shall be listed
to ensure compliance with occupancy limitations as permitted;
      (6)   Signed statement of the owner and owner’s agent indicating that he
or she is aware of the village’s property maintenance codes and all pertinent
ordinances (for example, zoning, occupancy, nuisances, weeds, trash, and the
like) and the legal ramifications for violating said codes;
      (7)   The name and street address of the registered agent if the owner is
a corporation;
      (8)   The name and street address of any buyer(s) on a contract for deed
or, in the alternative, the name and address of the mortgage holder if there is
a mortgage on the rental property; and
      (9)   Any other information deemed necessary for compliance with this
chapter.
   (C)   Tenant information as required by division (B)(5) above shall be
updated within ten days in writing to the Village Clerk with each change of
occupancy.
   (D)   Upon making an application, the applicant shall pay a registration fee
in the amount of $25 per rental unit and shall pay an annual renewal fee of $25
per rental unit.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 TIME LIMIT FOR REGISTRATION; TERM.
   (A)   Application for registration of existing rental units shall be made
within 90 days of the effective date hereof. Application for registration of
new rental property shall be made prior to occupancy. After the effective date
of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any owner, as defined herein, to
lease or operate rental property without first registering it with the village
and complying with the provisions of this chapter, together with other
applicable codes and ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The term of registration shall be annual. The registration of rental
properties required herein shall expire on the last day of each calendar year
and shall be renewed by January 1 of each calendar year hereafter.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 REGISTRATION RENEWAL.
   If there are no changes in ownership or agent representation, renewals of
the registration may be made by completing a registration renewal form
furnished by the village and payment of the annual registration fee.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.08 CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Within 30 days of any change of ownership or change in local
responsible agent of a rental property, the new owner shall re-register the
property by filing the registration information and forms as required by this
chapter and the current registration shall immediately become void.
   (B)   A change of ownership shall include any change in ownership rights,
including execution of a contract for deed, whether recorded or not. The
registration is not transferable to any other persons, buildings, or to another
owner and shall not be pro-rated for the remainder of the calendar year.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.09 LOCAL AGENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any rental unit covered by this chapter shall be
available to respond to an emergency on a 24-hour basis. This requirement may
be met by maintaining an operating business or owner residence within the
county, or by use of a local agent who resides within the county or an
adjoining county, either of whom can be contacted on a 24-hour basis. If a
local agent is used, the owner shall provide the village with the name,
address, and telephone number of the local agent in addition to owner
information. A post office box, mailing address, or long-distance toll free
number (for example, 800 numbers) shall not be deemed sufficient to meet the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   The responsible local agent shall be a local individual person, as
opposed to a corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, trust, association,
organization, or other entity and shall have his or her place of residence and/
or place of business located in the county or within a 30-mile radius of the
corporate limits of the village, and shall be designated by the owner of the
property as legally responsible for operating said property in compliance with
all the provisions of the codes and ordinances of the village. The responsible
local agent may be the owner of the rental housing, a tenant, lessee, occupant,
or any other individual person.
   (C)   The responsible local agent shall also be responsible for providing
access to said property by the village for the purpose of making inspections
necessary to ensure compliance with the codes and ordinances of the village.
   (D)   All official notices of the village shall be served by first class
mail or in person on the owner or local responsible agent, and any notices
served on the local responsible agent shall be deemed to have been served upon
the owner of record.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.10 INSPECTIONS.
   Both the interior and exterior of properties registered under the rental
registration and inspection program shall be subject to periodic inspections by
the village as set forth herein.
   (A)   Appropriate officials of the village may conduct periodic inspections
of multiple-family, single-family, and duplex rental units to ensure compliance
with this chapter as well as the Property Maintenance Code and the permitted
use and residential occupancy provisions contained within all village codes and
ordinances including an inspection prior to occupancy.
   (B)   The inspection for multiple-family, single-family, and duplex rental
units may be initiated by the tenant or a neighbor complaint(s) about a
particular structure or area of rental properties, and/or as indicated by fire
and police call(s) for service, public complaints made to elected or appointed
officials having municipal or other legal jurisdiction, or exterior nuisance
complaints about a structure or area.
   (C)   (1)   For interior inspections due to complaint(s), a notice of
inspection(s) of rental units, pursuant to this section, shall be given in
writing to each owner and each tenant of such rental unit a minimum of five
days prior to the inspection. Such notice shall be presumed to have been
received as of the time it was served personally on such person, or if mailed
by first class certified U.S. Mail, ten days prior to the inspection; it will
be presumed to have been received at least five days prior to the inspection.
In such notice, the tenants may be addressed as “occupants” and shall be
regarded as notice to all tenants, and one such notice mailed to the owner or
local responsible agent. Notice to the owner, if mailed, shall be addressed to
such owner at the address provided for such owner or agent in the application
to register the rental property.
      (2)   The owner shall pay a $75 re-inspection(s) fee if the owner or his
or her agent fails to provide access to the rental property as scheduled.
Failure to provide access as scheduled or rescheduled shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.11 SAFETY, SECURITY.
   (A)   To ensure the safety of all residents of rental properties, every
owner shall cooperate with the village and its Police and Fire Departments to
continually address public safety issues and crime problems at any rental
property.
   (B)   This cooperation shall take the form of at least one meeting with
village officials and, if necessary, an inspection of the property to review
security and crime issues for formulation of remedies as may be identified.
   (C)   The resulting security plan may include, but is not limited to, a
review of access and security issues, lighting, fire safety measures, and
prevention; access to common areas, crime prevention, neighborhood watch
programs, graffiti removal, and “No Trespass” notices; and such other measures
which are appropriate to the individual property and the type of problems at
issue.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.12 COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises containing one or more
rental dwelling units for any agent acting for such owner to allow occupancy of
any rental dwelling unit on the premises by another, or to represent the
general public that such premises or any part thereof is for rent or lease,
unless said rental housing is currently registered with the village and such
registration has not been invalidated or revoked.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   The Village President shall revoke the rental housing registration for one
or more of the following causes:
   (A)   Failure to apply for registration after the transfer of ownership or
as otherwise required herein;
   (B)   Failure of the responsible local agent to perform the duties delegated
to him or her by the owner;
   (C)   Failure to make application and pay the application fee for existing
rental units as required herein or to renew registration with full payment of
fees in any penalties due;
   (D)   Failure to be in compliance with all code requirements and ordinances
of the village;
   (E)   Failure to pay all sums due to the village including, but not limited
to, and outstanding fees, fines, penalties, or past due utility charges; and
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.14 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   An owner, or agent of the owner, may appeal a registration
denial or revocation to the Village Clerk’s office within ten days of the date
of written notice to such owner, or agent, of the denial or revocation of
registration.
      (2)   The appeal must be in writing and state the reasons the owner or
agent disagrees with the determination to deny registration or the reasons for
the revocation. If no request for reconsideration of the denial or revocation
is received in writing within ten days following the issuance of the notice of
revocation, the registration shall be denied or revoked.
   (B)   The Village President shall set a time and place for any informal
conference on the matter of denial or reconsideration within five working days
of the receipt of such written application, and shall advise the applicant to
present his or her grounds for setting aside the denial or revocation. Within
five working days following the close of the informal conference, notice shall
be given to the applicant in writing as to whether the denial or revocation
will be set aside. If, after the close of the informal conference, insufficient
cause exists to modify or set aside the notice of denial or revocation, the
registration shall be denied or revoked if, upon finding cause no longer exists
for the denial or revocation, the registration shall be granted or reinstated.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.15 APPLICATION FOR RESIDENTIAL RENTAL OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   APPLICATION FOR RESIDENTIAL RENTAL OCCUPANCY PERMIT
   DATE: ___________________
   (PLEASE PRINT)
Permits will be mailed to the person requesting permit unless otherwise stated. A $25.00
registration fee per unit, payable to the Village of Livingston, must accompany this
application.
A permit is hereby requested for those named below to occupy the premises known at:
NO: _________ STREET: ____________________________ UNIT: ________
Located in the Village of Livingston, Illinois. Anyone occupying the premises are named
hereon. Any person not named hereon who moves into these premises after the permit is
issued is violating the law unless such additional occupancy is authorized by the Village
of Livingston.
APPLICANT’S NAME: _____________________________ PHONE: _______
PLEASE CIRCLE:   OWNER   AGENT   MANAGER   OTHER: ____________________
PLEASE CIRCLE:   INITIAL APPLICATION   RENEWAL APPLICATION
TENANT INFORMATION (NOTE: All Tenant information must be updated within ten (10) days in
writing to the Village Clerk with each change of occupancy)
NAME OF HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD, SPOUSE OR UNRELATED PERSONS WHO WILL OCCUPY UNIT:
TENANT:
(FIRST AND LAST NAME) ________________________________________________
SPOUSE OR EQUIVALENT:
(FIRST AND LAST NAME) ________________________________________________
TENANT’S CHILDREN WHO WILL OCCUPY THE UNIT: (FIRST AND LAST NAME)
NAME ____________________ AGE ______            NAME ____________________ AGE ______
NAME ____________________ AGE ______            NAME ____________________ AGE ______
NAME ____________________ AGE ______            NAME ____________________ AGE ______
NAMES OF UNRELATED PERSONS WHO WILL ALSO OCCUPY THE UNIT:
NAME ____________________ AGE ______            NAME ____________________ AGE ______
NAME ____________________ AGE ______            NAME ____________________ AGE ______
OWNER’S NAME(S): _____________________ PHONE: ________________
OWNER’S ADDRESS: _______________________________________________________________
(STREET)            (CITY)                (STATE)
MANAGER OR AGENT NAME: ___________________PHONE: __________
MANAGER OR AGENT ADDRESS: _______________________________________________________________
STREET)            (CITY)             (STATE)
COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING IF THE OWNER IS A CORPORATION, LLC, OR OTHER ENTITY:
REGISTERED AGENT’S NAME: _________________________ _ PHONE: _______________
REGISTERED AGENT’S ADDRESS:
___________________________________________________________________
(STREET)            (CITY)             (STATE)
COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING IF THE PROPERTY IS SUBJECT TO A CONTRACT FOR DEED:
BUYER’S NAME: __________________________ PHONE: _______________
BUYER’S ADDRESS:
_________________________________________________________________________________
         (STREET)            (CITY)                (STATE)
LOCAL RESPONSIBLE AGENT: ______________________________________________________
PHONE: ____________________________________________________________________________
LRA’S ADDRESS:
___________________________________________________________________________________
            (STREET)            (CITY)                (STATE)
NAME OF PERSON COMPLETING THIS APPLICATION:
_________________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS OF PERSON COMPLETING THIS APPLICATION:
_________________________________________________________________________________
(STREET)                  (CITY)         (STATE)          (ZIP)
TOTAL NUMBER OF UNITS IN EACH RENTAL PROPERTY: ___________________________
TOTAL NUMBER OF ROOMS IN EACH UNIT: ________ BEDROOMS: _____ BATHROOMS: _____
DATE OF OCCUPANCY: ______________ DATE INSPECTION IS DESIRED: _________________
NOTE: It is the responsibility of the owner or managing agent to contact the building
inspector to arrange an appointment for the inspections.
I CERTIFY THAT I AM THE OWNER/MANAGER OR OCCUPANT OF THE UNIT DESCRIBED IN THIS
APPLICATION AND THAT THE ANSWERS CONTAINED HEREIN ARE TRUE AND ACCURATE IN ALL ASPECTS TO
THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE. I FURTHER CERTIFY THAT I AM AWARE OF THE VILLAGE OF
LIVINGSTON’S PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODES AND ALL PERTINENT ORDINANCES (I.E. RENTAL
REGISTRATION, ZONING, OCCUPANCY, NUISANCES SUCH AS WEEDS, TRASH, ETC.) AND I AM AWARE OF
THE LEGAL RAMIFICATIONS FOR VIOLATING SAID CODES AND ORDINANCES.
SIGNATURE OF OWNER/MANAGER/OCCUPANT: _____________________________________
 
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by fine of not less
than $250 and not more than $750 for each violation. Each day shall constitute
a separate and continuing violation. The village may seek remedies which
include corrective action or prohibitions as a part of its relief.
   (B)   In the event that the village denies or revokes registration of a
rental property, the tenants of the subject property shall be informed by the
village of the decision and of their need to obtain other housing. An owner, or
the agent of the owner, may appeal a registration denial or revocation
according to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed 7-10-2017)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Undermining
   
152.002   Open doors
   
152.003   Repairing sidewalks and the like
   
152.004   Stairway, railing
   
152.005   Closing street
   
152.006   Signs across street
   
152.007   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
152.008   Deposits on sidewalks
   
152.009   Obstructing street
   
152.010   Rainwater drains
   
152.011   Building materials in street
   
152.012   Merchandise on public street
   
152.013   Encroachments
   
152.014   Posting bills
   
152.015   Signs on poles
   
152.016   Injury to new pavements
   
152.017   Barbed-wired fences
   
152.018   Burning on public streets
   
152.019   Excavation permit form
   
152.020   Application for culvert/driveway permit
Department Established
   
152.035   Department established
   
152.036   Committee on streets
Trees and Shrubs
   
152.050   Planting
   
152.051   Planting trees in right-of-way
   
152.052   Removal
   
152.053   Injury
   
152.054   Advertisements or notices
   
152.055   Dangerous trees
   
152.056   Wires
   
152.057   Gas pipes
   
152.058   Certain trees prohibited
Excavations
   
152.070   Permit required
   
152.071   Applications
   
152.072   Fees
   
152.073   Bond
   
152.074   Deposit
   
152.075   Manner of excavating
   
152.076   Sidewalks
   
152.077   Restoring surface
   
152.078   Supervision
   
152.079   Tunneling
   
152.080   Protective measures, routing of traffic
   
152.081   Clearance for vital structures
   
152.082   Protection of traffic
   
152.083   Relocation, protection of utilities
   
152.084   Abandonment of substructures
   
152.085   Protection of adjoining property
   
152.086   Placement of excavated material
   
152.087   Clean-up
   
152.088   Protection of watercourses
   
152.089   Breaking through pavement
   
152.090   Depth of structures
   
152.091   Backfilling
   
152.092   Trenches in pipe laying
   
152.093   Prompt completion of work
   
152.094   Urgent work
   
152.095   Emergency action
   
152.096   Noise, dust, debris
   
152.097   Preservation of monuments
   
152.098   Inspections
   
152.099   Location records
   
152.100   Liability of persons to village for damage
Street Improvements
   
152.115   Sidewalks
   
152.116   Curbs and gutters
   
152.117   Sidewalk replacement request form
   
152.118   Storm sewers
Culverts
   
152.130   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
152.131   Permit for culvert
   
152.132   Application for permit
   
152.133   Termination of permit
   
152.134   Type of culvert
   
152.135   Cost of installation
   
152.136   Backfill cost
   
152.137   Replacement cost
Driveways
   
152.150   Permits required
   
152.151   Fee
   
152.152   Grade surface
   
152.153   Specifications
   
152.154   Breaking curb; bond required
   
152.155   Repair
Cross-reference:
   Littering in streets, anti-littering, see §§
133.20 through 133.35
Statutory reference:
   General powers over streets and public ways, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through
5/11-80-23
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the village or belonging to any private person.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.002 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open any door, any gate, or the
grating of any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her on any
street, alley, or sidewalk in the village for any purpose, except the taking in
and removing goods, and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall
warn passersby of the danger.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.003 REPAIRING SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever any sidewalk, pavement, or cellar door on the same becomes worn out
or out of repair, or is torn up or broken and uneven, it shall be the duty of
the Superintendent to immediately report such fact to the Mayor or Street and
Alley Committee, and upon verbal or written order from either of them, to give
notice to the party owning the adjoining property to repair such sidewalk or
cellar door without delay.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-3)
§ 152.004 STAIRWAY, RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk and, in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a failing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-4)
§ 152.005 CLOSING STREET.
   (A)   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street,
alley, or public place requires it, the Mayor or his or her designated
representative may order any street, alley, or public place temporarily closed
to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that the street, alley, or
public place is closed by order of the Mayor.
   (B)   Whenever such signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon
or cross such street, alley, or public place, or in any manner destroy, deface,
or remove any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.006 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement, or banner over any or across
any street, alley, or sidewalk in the village, unless he or she has written
approval of the Village Board.
(65 ILCS 5/11-80-17) (Prior Code, § 33-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.007 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any bicycle or vehicle over any sidewalk, except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.008 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals, or
property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet; and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.009 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any material on any street which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any grass
clippings, or to cause a lawn mower to blow grass clippings onto a street or
any other articles such as glass which may cause injury to any person, animal,
or property.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley, or sidewalk in the village, any debris,
materials, or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to exercise a vigilant
supervision over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit
or responsible for the same to remove the offending matter at once.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.010 RAINWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the
construction of any stormwater drain or any drainage pipe in either a natural
or human-made ditch without having first obtained a permit therefor.
         (b)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk
and shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of such drainage
pipe, the premises to be served, and the specification of such pipe to be
installed.
      (2)   Such application shall be referred to the Superintendent and no
such permit shall be issued unless he or she shall have found that the village
code would be complied with by the installation of such stormwater drain or
drainage pipe and that the installation of such stormwater drain or drainage
pipe would not interfere with, overload, obstruct, or otherwise adversely
affect the existing stormwater drainage system within the village.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
stormwater drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the village, and
it shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.011 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   (A)   The Superintendent may move any obstruction on any street or sidewalk
of the village, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified.
   (B)   Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving any
lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such length
of time as may be necessary for the work.
   (C)   The obstruction shall not extend to more than one-half of the width of
the sidewalk, street, or alley adjacent to such improvement and the gutter
shall always be left free and unobstructed.
   (D)   At night, such person shall keep an illuminated warning light on such
material.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-11)
§ 152.012 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale, or to write or make any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements, unless permission is granted by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.013 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.014 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print, or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement, or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone, or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door, or gate
without the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone, flagstone,
sidewalk, tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door, or gate.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.015 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint, or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted, or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire
alarm pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk,
street, alley, or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.016 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.017 BARBED-WIRED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to persons, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within three
feet of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park, or other public way or place
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of such
public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.018 BURNING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish, or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks, or alleys in the
village.
(Prior Code, § 33-2-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Open burning, see §§
90.120 through
90.130
§ 152.019 EXCAVATION PERMIT FORM.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT
NAME _____________________________________________________________________________
FIRM NAME _______________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS __________________________________________________________________________
CITY/VILLAGE __________   STATE ____   PHONE ___________
LOCATION OF PROPOSED EXCAVATION
___________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
NATURE OF EXCAVATION
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________
BONDING COMPANY:
NAME
________________________________________________________________________________________
ADDRESS
________________________________________________________________________________________
CITY/VILLAGE __________   STATE ____   PHONE ___________
AMOUNT OF BOND $
______________________________________________________________________________
PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE (LIST CITIES AND/OR VILLAGES)
   CITY/VILLAGE         CITY/VILLAGE OFFICIAL
1.   ____________________      ______________________________________________________
2.   ____________________      ______________________________________________________
3.   ____________________      ______________________________________________________
4.   ____________________      ______________________________________________________
   I have read the municipal law with regard to excavations and my firm or company
intends to fully comply with the Street Regulations Code provisions.
                                          _____________________________________
                                                (Applicant’s Signature)
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 33)
§ 152.020 APPLICATION FOR CULVERT/DRIVEWAY PERMIT.
   APPLICATION FOR CULVERT/DRIVEWAY PERMIT
   I, ___________________________, do hereby request permission and authority to
construct a culvert/driveway on the right-of-way of the Village in accordance
with the information provided on this application and the accompanying sketch.
(Applicant must prepare a sketch showing location, length and pertinent details.)
ADDRESS:
_________________________________________________________________________
Pipe material will be:
_________________________________________________________________
Wall thickness or gauge will be:
________________________________________________________
Type of joint will be:
_________________________________________________________________
DATED: __________ , 20____      SIGNED: ______________________________
                              (APPLICANT)
   CULVERT/DRIVEWAY PERMIT
APPLICATION               Approved ( )   Disapproved ( )
If disapproved, state reasons:
_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________
DATED: __________ , 20____      SIGNED: ___________________________________
                           VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   CERTIFICATION
   The undersigned has inspected the construction and installation set forth
above and finds that the same (is) (is not) in accordance with the permit.
DATED: __________ , 20____      SIGNED: ___________________________________
                                 VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 33)
DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED
§ 152.035 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government
which shall be known as the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the Street Committee, the Superintendent of Public
Works, and the employees.
   (C)   The Village Engineer shall serve as ex officio officer.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-1)
§ 152.036 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   The Village Board Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Street Department. It shall ascertain the
needs and conditions thereof and shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 33-1-2)
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 152.050 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Superintendent and shall be
referred by him or her to the Village Board. All trees and shrubs so planted
shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.051 PLANTING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any bushes, trees, shrubs, or other plants on
the right-of-way of any public street, including the space on the right-of-way
between the sidewalk and the adjacent street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.052 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway, or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Street Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board
before permission shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.053 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in such public
place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.054 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any
tree or shrub in any street, parkway, or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.055 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet or in such a
way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall
be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which
such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim or remove any
tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be
done away with.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-6)
§ 152.056 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway, or other public place without the permission of
the Village Board.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys, or other public places in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Superintendent so that no injury
shall be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their
conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.057 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of the provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-8)
§ 152.058 CERTAIN TREES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation to
plant or cause to be planted in any of the public streets, alleys, sidewalks,
parkways, and other public places in the village, any trees of any of the
following varieties: Cottonwood, Poplar, and Willow.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.070 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley, or other public place in the
village without having obtained a permit as is herein required or without
complying with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance
from the terms of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.071 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Clerk and shall describe
the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof, the
purpose therefor, and the person, firm, or corporation doing the actual
excavating work, and the name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom or
for which the work is being done, and it shall also contain an agreement that
the applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to
be done. (See § 152.019.)
(Prior Code, § 33-4-2)
§ 152.072 FEES.
   The fee for such permit(s) shall be as follows; however, the Village Board
may waive the fees in this section:
 
Excavation in asphalt or Portland cement concrete       $0.25 per square foot
pavement or surface
Excavation in brick pavement or surface                 $0.25 per square foot
Excavation in oil treated street surface                $0.25 per square foot
Excavation in untreated or unimproved street or surface $0.25 per square foot
 
(Prior Code, § 33-4-3)
§ 152.073 BOND.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $50,000, conditioned to indemnify the
village for any loss, liability, or damage that may result or accrue from or
because of the making, existence, or manner of guarding or constructing any
such tunnel or excavation. Such bond shall have as surety a corporation
licensed to do business in the state as a surety company. The Village Board may
waive the bond provided for herein.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-4)
§ 152.074 DEPOSIT.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $250 if no pavement is
involved, and $1,000 if the excavation is a paved area, to ensure the proper
restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From this deposit
shall be deducted the expense of the village of relaying the surface of the
ground or pavement and of making the refill if this is done by the village, or
at its expense and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
or pavement is restored. The Village Board may waive the deposit in this
section.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-5)
§ 152.075 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground, and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the
making of such excavations or tunnels, and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables, or conduits shall be disturbed. No unnecessary damage or injury shall
be done to any tree, shrub, or the roots thereof.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.076 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. The temporary sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Superintendent
and shall not be open for use until approved by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-7)
§ 152.077 RESTORING SURFACE.
   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley, or other public place in the village shall restore
the surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refills
shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation
shall be left in the ground. Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a
street shall be repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant in compliance
with the regulations of the village and under the supervision of the
Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-8)
§ 152.078 SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendent shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be
inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley, or other place in the village to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten
hours before the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-9)
§ 152.079 TUNNELING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the village which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement, provided that, upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.080 PROTECTIVE MEASURES, ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation in or
upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public.
   (A)   Barriers, warning signs, and lights shall conform to the requirements
of all applicable provisions of this chapter. Warning lights shall be
electrical markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset
of each day to sunrise of the next day.
   (B)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace
light sources.
   (C)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work traffic conditions, as nearly normal as
possible, shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. When traffic
conditions permit, the Superintendent may, by written approval, permit the
closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period of time prescribed by
him or her if, in his or her opinion, it is necessary. Such written approval
may require that the permittee give notification to various public agencies and
to the general public. In such cases, such written approval shall not be valid
until such notice is given.
   (D)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-11)
§ 152.081 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-12)
§ 152.082 PROTECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle
traffic at all street intersections where possible and safe crossing for
pedestrians at intervals of not more than 300 feet. If any excavation is made
across any public street, alley, or sidewalk adequate crossing shall be
maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians.
   (B)   If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material
without using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway at least one-half of
the sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk line.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-13)
§ 152.083 RELOCATION, PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility
without the written consent of the Superintendent and the owner of the
facility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall
be done by its owner. The facility owned by the village shall be moved to
accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such work is borne by the
permittee. The cost of moving privately-owned facilities shall be similarly
borne by the permittee unless other arrangements are made with the person
owning the facility.
      (2)   The permittee shall support and protect, by timbers or otherwise,
all pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or other apparatus which may be in any way
affected by the excavation work, and do everything necessary to support,
sustain, and protect them under, over, along, or across said work. The
permittee shall secure approval of the method of support and protection from
the owner of the facility.
   (B)   (1)   In case of any said pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or apparatus
should be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating or other encasement or
devices are to be considered as part of a substructure, the permittee shall
promptly notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities shall be repaired by
the agency or person owning them and the expense of such repairs shall be
charged to the permittee. It is the intent of this section that the permittee
shall assume all liability for damage to facilities and any resulting damage or
injury to anyone because of such facility damage and such assumption of
liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee.
      (2)   The only exception will be such instances where damage is
exclusively due to the negligence of the owning utility. The village shall not
be made a party to any action because of this section. The permittee shall
inform itself as to the existence and location of all underground facilities
and protect the same against damage.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-14)
§ 152.084 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   (A)   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the
abandonment of service lines designed to serve single properties, the person
owning, using, controlling, or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days
after such abandonment, file with the Superintendent a statement in writing
giving in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned.
   (B)   If such abandoned substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes
in the way of an installation of the village or any other public body, which
installation is pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove
such abandoned substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of
excavation for construction of the facility by the village or any other public
body.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-15)
§ 152.085 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his, her, or its own
expense, preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing
proper foundations and taking other measures suitable for this purpose. Where,
in the protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private
property for the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the
permittee shall obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such
purpose, and if he or she cannot obtain such consent, the Superintendent may
authorize him or her to enter the private premises solely for the purpose of
making the property safe.
   (B)   At the permittee’s own expense, all buildings, walls, fences, or other
property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work shall
be shored up and protected, and the permittee shall be responsible for all
damage to public or private property or highways resulting from failure to
properly protect and carry out the work. Whenever it may be necessary for the
permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be re-seeded or the
sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after ditches have been
backfilled as required in this subchapter. All construction and maintenance
work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area clean of earth
and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that which existed
before such work began. The permittee shall not remove, even temporarily, any
trees or shrubs which exist in parking street areas without first obtaining the
consent of the appropriate village department or official having supervision of
such property.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-16)
§ 152.086 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to eliminate
danger to those working in the trench, pedestrians, or users of the streets,
and so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using
streets and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated
are too narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench,
such as might be the case in a narrow alley, the Superintendent shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then rehaul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee’s responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the
Superintendent. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards, or bins may be required by the
Street Superintendent to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-17)
§ 152.087 CLEAN-UP.
   As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be thoroughly cleaned
of all rubbish, excess earth, rock, and other debris resulting from such work.
All clean-up operations at the location of such excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. From time to time as may be ordered by the
Superintendent and, in any event, immediately after completion of the work, the
permittee shall, at his, her, or its own expense, clean up and remove all
refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work and, upon
failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by the
Superintendent, said work may be done by the Superintendent and the cost
thereof charged to the permittee and the permittee shall also be liable for the
cost thereof under the surety bond provided hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-18)
§ 152.088 PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain all gutters free and unobstructed for the
full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least one foot in width from the
face of such curb at the gutter line.
   (B)   Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street, an adequate waterway
shall be provided and at all times maintained.
   (C)   The permittee shall make provisions to take care of all surplus water,
muck, silt, slickings, or other run-off pumped from excavations or resulting
from sluicing or other operations and shall be responsible for any damage
resulting from its failure to so provide.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-19)
§ 152.089 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Superintendent
when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   (1)   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch in depth; however, depths
greater than one inch may be required by the Superintendent when circumstances
warrant.
      (2)   Saw cutting may be required by the Superintendent outside the
limits of the excavation over cave-outs, overbreaks, and small floating
sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Superintendent to confine pavement damage to the limits
of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and overbreaks, and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or other methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be
required by the Superintendent.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his or her cut results in small floating sections
that may be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the
area.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-20)
§ 152.090 DEPTH OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall, without written permission of the Superintendent,
install any substructure except manholes, vaults, valve casings, culverts, and
catch basins at a vertical distance less than the following.
      (1)   Streets. Twenty-four inches below the established flow line of the
nearest gutter. If said flow line is not established, then the depth shall be
at a minimum of 24 inches below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of
the traveled portion of the street.
      (2)   Parkway.
         (a)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 16 inches below
established gutter grade when said substructure parallels the parkway.
         (b)   The minimum depth of any substructure shall be 12 inches below
the top of the established sidewalk or curb when such substructure is at right
angles to the parkway.
      (3)   Other public places. The minimum depth of any substructure in any
other public place shall be 12 inches below the surface.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall impose a duty upon the permittee to
maintain said specifications as required herein upon subsequent changes of
grade in the surface unless the grade in said substructure interferes with the
maintenance of or travel on a public street.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-21)
§ 152.091 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil shall
be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper level of
such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill material
shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent with the
type of soil involved and. the degree of consolidation specified by the Village
Board. Broken pavement, large stones, roots, and other debris shall not be used
in the backfill.
   (B)   (1)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the
type of soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit
the restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that
existing prior to excavation unless otherwise specified.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require soil tests to be furnished by a
recognized soil testing laboratory or registered professional engineer
specializing in soil mechanics when, in his or her opinion, backfill for any
excavation is not being adequately compacted.
      (3)   In order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show
that the backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the
Village Board. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-22)
§ 152.092 TRENCHES IN PIPE LAYING.
   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations; however, at night no more than
50 feet may be open with proper barriers. No open trenches may be on village
property.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-23)
§ 152.093 PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK.
   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-24)
§ 152.094 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Superintendent shall have full power to order, at the time
the permit is granted, that a crew and adequate facilities be employed by the
permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation work may be completed
as soon as possible.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-25)
§ 152.095 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Superintendent for
such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-26)
§ 152.096 NOISE, DUST, DEBRIS.
   (A)   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a
manner as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general
public and occupants of neighboring property.
   (B)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to reduce, to the
fullest extent practicable in the performance of the excavation work, noise,
dust, and unsightly debris and between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
and shall not use, except in case of emergency as otherwise provided herein,
any tool, appliance, or equipment producing noise of sufficient volume to
disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the neighboring property.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-27)
§ 152.097 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines
of any street or property subdivision or a precise survey reference point or a
permanent survey bench mark within the village shall not be removed or
disturbed or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining
permission in writing from the Village Board to do so.
   (B)   Permission to remove or disturb such monuments, reference points, or
bench marks shall only be granted upon condition that the person applying for
such permission shall pay all expenses incident to the proper replacement of
the monument by the village.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-28)
§ 152.098 INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent shall make such inspections as are reasonably necessary
in the enforcement of this subchapter. The Superintendent shall have the
authority to promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as
may be reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-29)
§ 152.099 LOCATION RECORDS.
   Every public utility, after the enactment of this subchapter, shall maintain
records showing the location of all of its underground facilities except
relatively minor facilities which connect a particular premises or building to
a facility serving more than one premises or building, except oil or gas
gathering or field lines. Every public utility shall maintain equipment which
can locate such facilities in the field.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-30)
§ 152.100 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO VILLAGE FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provision of this subchapter and any person or
property in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of
such violation shall be liable to the village in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the village of such person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the village
for such damages.
(Prior Code, § 33-4-31)
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.115 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade.
      (1)   No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade of
the village and in all cases where no grade is established, any person building
a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the Street
Superintendent and the Village Board. No one shall build a sidewalk unless it
consist of new construction.
      (2)   No one shall remove or destroy a sidewalk without replacing the
same with a new sidewalk.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to build, lay, or
construct any sidewalk along any property in the village or along any of the
streets, alleys, or public highways thereon, without first filing an
application for a permit with the Village Clerk and approved by the Village
Board.
   (C)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the village shall pay the cost of the concrete and
thereafter the sidewalk shall be constructed by the applicant.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(65 ILCS 5/11-80-13)
(Prior Code, § 33-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.116 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing. Any person owning property within the village who
desires to have new curbs and gutters constructed along the street adjoining
his or her premises shall file a request with the Superintendent, giving the
location of the property and the length of the curbs and gutters requested.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the Village Board
approves the request, the village shall pay the cost of the concrete and
thereafter the curb and gutter shall be constructed by the applicant.
   (C)   Approval by Village Board. The approval of the request for
construction of curbs and gutters by the Village Board shall be dependent upon
the approval of funds, priority of projects, and continuity of construction for
the best benefit of the village as determined by the Village Board.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This section is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(65 ILCS 5/11-80-13)
(Prior Code, § 33-5-2)
§ 152.117 SIDEWALK REPLACEMENT REQUEST FORM.
   VILLAGE OF LIVINGSTON
   Sidewalk Replacement Request Form
NAME: DATE:
ADDRESS (Include Street):
REASON FOR REPLACEMENT:
Give dimensions of sidewalk to be replaced in terms of feet. Describe any changes
from the existing sidewalk that you propose.
Does the sidewalk run through a driveway?   [ ] YES   [ ] NO
Who will do the concrete finish work?
Are there any trees located near the existing sidewalk?   [ ] YES   [ ] NO
Are there any drainage tiles under existing sidewalk?   [ ] YES   [ ] NO
   GUIDELINES TO BE FOLLOWED:
1.   The Homeowner must meet all the criteria of the Village in terms of the
concrete bag mix, width, depth, and type of finish of the sidewalk.
2.   The Homeowner must landscape the edge of the new sidewalk with dirt and grass
seed to prevent erosion from occurring underneath the sidewalk. This is done to
prevent the sidewalk from cracking.
3.   Any trees or shrubbery near the sidewalk may be subject to removal before
replacement of the concrete.
4.   The person doing the concrete finish work must be experienced in this type of
work.
5.   If the request for replacement is that of a sidewalk earmarked for renewal
within 1 year, the Village will remedy any hazards existing at the time.
6.   The Village will provide rock or sand fill and the concrete for the
replacement. The Homeowner will provide the concrete from boards.
7.   The replacement of the sidewalk will be at the Village Board’s discretion upon
“inspection” of the sidewalk to be replaced and the availability of funding.
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 33, Article V)
§ 152.118 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of stormwater sewers. Stormwater sewers shall be any pipe
or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, groundwaters, roof leaders,
or stormwaters, rain waters, or other waters other than sanitary sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Departments
shall supervise all connections made to the public storm sewer system or
excavations for the purposes of installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public stormwater
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Superintendent or his
or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements; use of stormwater sewers. Where a stormwater sewer is
accessible in a street, alley, or easement to a building or premises abutting
thereon, the surface drains, groundwaters, roof leaders, or stormwaters shall
be discharged into the stormwater sewer unless otherwise authorized by the
village. Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any substance
other than surface waters, groundwaters, roof waters, or stormwaters be
permitted to flow into or be connected to the stormwater sewer, and no sanitary
sewer shall be connected to the stormwater sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 33-5-3)
CULVERTS
§ 152.130 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public
street or property.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.131 PERMIT FOR CULVERT.
   It shall be unlawful to install any culvert or replace any culvert without
first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.132 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit to install or replace any culvert shall
file an application therefor with the Village Clerk upon a form to be provided
for that purpose.
   (B)   The application and the permit issued pursuant thereto shall be on the
same form which shall be substantially as outlined in §
152.020.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-3)
§ 152.133 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   All such permits shall terminate upon the expiration of one year following
the date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-4)
§ 152.134 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   (A)   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open
ditches. The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be
reinforced concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall
thickness of 16 gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum
wall thickness of 16 gauge, asbestos cement storm drain pipe (Class IV), or of
such other material as determined by the Street Department, depending upon the
conditions existing.
   (B)   The culverts shall be of such size, installed at the grade and
constructed with couplings as determined by the Street Superintendent.
   (C)   The person desiring the culvert shall purchase a culvert as provided
herein and shall have it delivered on the site. The village shall install the
culvert.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-5)
§ 152.135 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Superintendent determines necessary depending on the conditions existing.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-6)
§ 152.136 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide such backfill material as the Superintendent determines
necessary to complete the project and the Street Department shall install such
backfill material.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-7)
§ 152.137 REPLACEMENT COST.
   The expense of replacing any culvert shall be borne by the person making
application for the permit to install the same.
(Prior Code, § 33-6-8)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 152.150 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across
any sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be accompanied by the fee required.
   (C)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served,
shall be issued except upon the order of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.151 FEE.
   The fee for all such construction shall be $1.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-2)
§ 152.152 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
nearly as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk or be other than level.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.153 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with the
specifications required by the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-4)
§ 152.154 BREAKING CURB; BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a permit can be issued to break a curb in the village for the
installation of a driveway or any other purpose, a bond or cash in the amount
of $100 is required to be posted with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-5)
§ 152.155 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(Prior Code, § 33-7-6)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Base flood elevation
   
153.04   Duties of the Building Official
   
153.05   Development permit
   
153.06   Preventing increased flood heights, resulting damages
   
153.07   Protecting buildings
   
153.08   Subdivision, other development requirements
   
153.09   Variances
   
153.10   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.11   Abrogation, greater restrictions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by the 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/11-31-2 in
order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To recognize the environmental sensitivity of floodplains and to
encourage their protection from inappropriate growth and development.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION at any location is as defined in §
153.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings. The
term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on
a site for more than 180 days.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building, exceeding 70 square feet in floor area;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the run-off of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These terms are synonymous.
Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village that are subject to
inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the village are generally
identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the village prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 27, 1984. The
floodplains of those parts of the unincorporated county that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the
village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map
prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated
April 15, 1982.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION OR FPE. The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for each of the floodplains of the village shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
   IDOT/DWR. Illinois Department of Transportation/Division of Water Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   SFHA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either:
      (1)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      (2)   If the structure has been damaged, and is being restored; before
the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-2)
Editor’s note:
   FEMA regulations can be found at 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 77, effective
October 1, 1986 (revised 10/1/1990).
   NFIP Regulations require protection to or above the base flood elevation.
One foot of freeboard is recommended by IDOT/DWR. A municipality may use higher
freeboard requirements if it desires.
   The NFIP requires that references be made to “manufactured homes” rather
than “mobile homes.”
§ 153.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood elevation data are listed below. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party may finance the detailed
engineering study needed to replace the existing data with better data and
submit it to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for approval. (See NFIP
requirement, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b).)
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the floodplains delineated as an
“A Zone” on the flood insurance rate map of the village shall be according to
the best data available from federal, state, or other sources. Should no other
data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine base flood
elevations.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles of the Flood Insurance Study of the county prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated October 15, 1982.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-3)
§ 153.04 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general administration
of this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
   (A)   Process development permits in accordance with §
153.05;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
153.06;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
153.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate (see NFIP requirements, 44
C.F.R. §§ 60.3(b)(5)(iii) and 59.22(a)(9)(iii));
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
153.08;
   (E)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
153.09 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (F)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions outlined
in §
153.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   (G)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   (H)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (I)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
and
   (J)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-4)
§ 153.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Administrator shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Application documents. The application for development permit shall be
accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basements) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
153.07.
   (B)   Elevation comparisons.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for development permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site’s
first flood insurance rate map identification is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map identification.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-5)
Editor’s note:
   Although survey data may show the development site to be entirely above the
base flood elevation, a letter of map amendment (LOMA) will still be required
to remove the site from the mapped floodplain for insurance requirements.
§ 153.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS, RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within the village’s floodplains, the following standards shall apply (see
NFIP requirements, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(4)(1), 60.3(c)(10), and 60.3(d)(3)):
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDOT/
DWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDOT/DWR Statewide Permit No. 11; and
      (10)   Any development determined by IDOT/DWR to be located entirely in a
flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDOT/DWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDOT/DWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary to approve
a revision of the regulatory map and base flood elevation.
(615 ILCS 5/5 through 29A)
(Prior Code, § 14-1-6)
§ 153.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Requirements. In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
153.06, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be protected from
flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building;
      (3)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   (B)   Alternative methods. Residential or non-residential buildings can meet
the building protection requirements by one of the following methods (see NFIP
requirements, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(2)):
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following (see
NFIP requirements, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(a)(3) and 60.3(c)(5)):
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all fully enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by having a minimum of two
permanent openings no more than one foot above grade and providing a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice, and floating
debris;
         (e)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (f)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (g)   No area below the flood protection elevation shall be used for
storage of items or materials.
   (C)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on-site for
more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the State
Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq. issued pursuant to 77
Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally floodproofed (in lieu of
elevation) provided a registered professional engineer certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
impact from debris and ice; and
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity. Levees, berms, floodwalls, and
similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose of this division
(C) (see NFIP requirements, 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(c)(4)).
(Prior Code, § 14-1-7)
§ 153.08 SUBDIVISION, OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Board shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   Data required. New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation
agreements, planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection
standards of §§
153.06 and
153.07. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when available; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act.
(765 ILCS 205/2)
   (B)   Health standards. Public health standards must be met for all
floodplain development. In addition to the requirements of §§
153.06 and
153.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building
constructed according to the requirements of §
153.07.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation are watertight.
   (C)   Other activities. All other activities defined as development shall be
designed so as not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-8)
Editor’s note:
   This section sets minimum subdivision design review and recording standards
when subdivisions are located within a floodplain. It also provides guidance
for other activities defined as “development” which may occur in a floodplain.
NFIP requirement, 44 C.F.R. § 60.2(c).
   NFIP requirement 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(3) only applies to subdivisions greater
than five acres or 50 lots.
   All new plats recorded must show the location of any floodplains and must be
signed, sealed, and certified by a Professional Land Surveyor as per the
requirements of Pub. Act 85-267.
§ 153.09 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board for a
variance. The Zoning Board shall review the applicant’s request for a variance
and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board. The Village Board may
attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to
further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Requirements for variance. No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue, or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or
other public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other required local, state, and federal permits have been
obtained.
   (B)   Notification of applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall notify an
applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of the building
protection standards of §
153.07 would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 for
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (C)   Building protection. Variances to the building protection requirements
of §
153.07 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair, or alteration
of a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more
permissive than the requirements of divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-9)
Editor’s note:
   65 ILCS 5/11-13-4 and 5/11-13-5 establishes specific municipal zoning
variance criteria.
   The Standard Flood Insurance Policy permits an insurance adjustor to not pay
for damage that was caused by something the owner did which increased the
hazard to the property. Section 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act
authorizes local officials to request denial of flood insurance for buildings
in violation of local floodplain codes.
   Communities in the NFIP are required to maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report them to FEMA.
FEMA may review variances and suspend a community from the NFIP if the review
“indicates a pattern inconsistent with the objectives of sound floodplain
management...”
§ 153.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the
floodplain will be free from flooding or damage.
   (B)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-10)
§ 153.11 ABROGATION, GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village
Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including 1980-8. However, this chapter does not repeal the original ordinance
adopted to achieve eligibility in the Program. Nor does this chapter repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail (see NFIP requirement, 44 C.F.R. § 60.2(B)).
(Prior Code, § 14-1-12)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning Administrator may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The
Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200; and
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The Municipal Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Prior Code, § 14-1-11)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   State requirements adopted by reference
   
154.03   State Department of Public Health regulations
   
154.04   National safety standards
   
154.05   Skirting
   
154.06   Fire extinguishers
   
154.07   Inspection
   
154.08   Off-street parking
   
154.09   License fee
Immobilized Mobile Homes
   
154.20   Immobilized mobile homes
   
154.21   Permit fee
   
154.22   Lot size
   
154.23   Dependent mobile homes
   
154.24   Concrete pads
   
154.25   Limit of units
Mobile Home Parks
   
154.40   Compliance with statutes, applicability of subchapter
   
154.41   Planning
   
154.42   Local government requirements
   
154.43   Permits
   
154.44   Inspection of mobile home parks
   
154.45   Violation proceedings
   
154.46   Permit required
Design and Construction Requirements
   
154.60   Plan document
   
154.61   Application
   
154.62   Location
   
154.63   Roadways, parking
   
154.64   Lot size
   
154.65   Miscellaneous restrictions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A mobile home served by individual utilities, resting on a
permanent perimeter foundation which extends below the established frost depth
with the wheels, tongue, and hitch removed and the home secured in compliance
with the Mobile Home Tie-Down Act, 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
      (2)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line so
as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete,
mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the ground below the
frost line shall satisfy the requirements for a permanent foundation.
(210 ILCS 115/2.10)
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the village allowing a person to
operate and maintain a mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall only include manufactured homes constructed
after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. Provided that any such
structure resting on a permanent foundation with wheels, tongue, and hitch
permanently removed shall not be construed as a MOBILE HOME, but shall be an
immobilized mobile home. A MOBILE HOME should not be confused with a camping
trailer or recreational vehicle.
(210 ILCS 115/2.1)
   MOBILE HOME DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.3)
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Two mobile units joined at the side into a single
home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated transportation to a site.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet
and bath or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.4)
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME MODULE. A factory-fabricated building unit transported to a
building site, mounted on a permanent foundation supporting the outside
perimeter walls, and is designed for residential use.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a mobile home park if they are
maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a
motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a MOBILE
HOME park.
(210 ILCS 115/2.5)
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale, and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOUSING UNIT. Includes all forms of housing units listed in this
section and as regulated in this chapter.
   OWNER OR OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
(210 ILCS 115/2.2)
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the village, permitting the construction,
alteration, or reduction in number of spaces of a mobile home park under the
provisions in this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the state, or any political subdivision or department thereof or
any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the village for an indefinite period of time.
   SITE. The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent habitation.
(210 ILCS 115/2.7)
   SPACE. Synonymous with MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by the village for a temporary period of time with an expectation
of resumption.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-1)
§ 154.02 STATE REQUIREMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Mobile Home Park Act and the Mobile Home Tie-Down Act of 210 ILCS
115/1 et seq., as passed, approved, and amended by the State General Assembly
are hereby adopted by the village.
   (B)   The applicable provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and
immobilized mobile homes shall be controlling within the corporate limits of
the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-2)
§ 154.03 STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations for mobile home parks, as approved by the State
Department of Public Health, are hereby adopted by the village, the applicable
provisions as they pertain to mobile homes and immobilized mobile homes shall
be controlling within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-3)
§ 154.04 NATIONAL SAFETY STANDARDS.
   No mobile home, immobilized mobile home, or manufactured home shall be
located in the village unless the unit has the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standard Act of 1974 metal seal affixed thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 SKIRTING.
   Skirting shall be used to conceal all underpinning, plumbing, and support
piers whether on a permanent foundation or otherwise. All skirting shall be
installed on all mobile housing units within 60 days of the placement of the
unit.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-5)
§ 154.06 FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   All mobile housing units located in the village shall be equipped with
a fire extinguishing apparatus capable of extinguishing all types of fires.
Such extinguishers shall be of sufficient size so that they will reasonably
protect the mobile housing units.
   (B)   All fire extinguishers shall be approved by the Fire Chief or his or
her designated representative prior to installation.
(425 ILCS 60/1 through 60/4) (Prior Code, § 23-1-6)
§ 154.07 INSPECTION.
   Each mobile housing unit located in the village shall be subject to
reasonable inspection by an official or officials designated by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-7)
§ 154.08 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Every owner of a mobile housing unit shall provide for a dustless, off-
street parking area of 400 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-1-8)
§ 154.09 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee per mobile home park shall be $50, and shall be due
and payable on or before May 1 of each year. The Village Clerk shall notify the
owner or operator of the annual fee at least 30 days prior to May 1.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-21)
IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES
§ 154.20 IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOMES.
   All immobilized mobile homes located in the village shall be classified as
real estate; therefore, it is mandatory for all persons owning, operating,
renting, or leasing an existing mobile home outside a mobile home park to
remove or cause to have removed the wheels or any other transportation device
from the mobile home. The owner or lessor shall permanently fix it to the
ground in a manner that conforms to the definition of an immobilized mobile
home in this chapter. All existing mobile homes, when replaced, shall comply
with the immobilization provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Placement prohibited. The placement of mobile homes, except double-
wide mobile homes that arena more than five years of age, within the village is
hereby restricted to placement within mobile home park and the placement of
mobile homes, except double-wide mobile homes that are no more than five years
of age, outside mobile home parks is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Existing units. Mobile homes that are not double-wide mobile homes and
that are in place and existing as of March 10, 1997 may be replaced by a mobile
home that is not a double-wide mobile home if the replacement mobile home is no
more than five years in age and said mobile home is the primary residence of
the owner of the property on which it is placed. (See
Chapter 156.)
(Prior Code, § 23-2-1)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. No. 97-2 also deletes “mobile homes” as a “special use” in the Zoning
Code but did not mention the section amended nor the hearing date in the
recitals. The reader should refer to the Zoning Code, which is separate from
this Code.
§ 154.21 PERMIT FEE.
   All persons seeking to locate or replace a mobile home or an immobilized
mobile home outside a mobile home park shall obtain a building (zoning
occupancy) permit from the Village Clerk. No utility services shall be
connected to the unit until the village has issued the appropriate permits. The
fee to locate or relocate a mobile home or immobilized mobile home shall be
$25.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-2)
§ 154.22 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for the location of an immobilized mobile home unit
shall be in accordance with the zone district in which it is located. All
immobilized mobile homes shall be located in the village, according to the
requirements and restrictions of this chapter. They shall not exceed 40%
coverage of the lot unless otherwise provided in the Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-3)
§ 154.23 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES.
   No dependent mobile home, as defined in §
154.01, shall be permitted in the village unless in a licensed travel-trailer
park. At no time shall anyone use a dependent mobile home as a permanent
residence or dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.24 CONCRETE PADS.
   All immobilized mobile homes shall be placed on either a reinforced concrete
pad at least 14 feet wide by 60 feet in length, two reinforced concrete runners
four feet wide and 60 feet in length, or on concrete piers approved by the
Village Board. The concrete pads shall consist of four inches of reinforced
concrete or six inches of concrete. A concrete footing is optional. All piers
and footings for immobilized mobile homes shall comply with this chapter.
Expandable units shall be provided with approved piers or their equivalent at
each corner of the units.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-5)
§ 154.25 LIMIT OF UNITS.
   There shall be only one immobilized mobile home or mobile home per lot in
the village.
(Prior Code, § 23-2-6)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 154.40 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES, APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Every mobile home park hereafter established in the village shall, at
a minimum, conform to the requirements of:
      (1)   An Act to provide for, license, and regulate mobile homes and
mobile home parks (see 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.);
      (2)   Rules and regulations for mobile home parks, State Department of
Public Health, Consumer Protection Division, as now or hereafter amended;
      (3)   This subchapter; and
      (4)   The Zoning Code.
   (B)   In case of conflict between any provisions of the above, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-1)
§ 154.41 PLANNING.
   (A)   Any person seeking to establish, operate, alter, or expand a mobile
home park shall obtain a permit to construct or a license to operate a mobile
home park.
   (B)   CONSTRUCT OR OPERATE A MOBILE HOME PARK, as used in this subchapter,
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining
common water, sewer, or other utility supplies or services, or the collection
of rents directly or indirectly from two or more independent mobile homes. (All
plans shall be submitted to the Plan Commission and the Village Board for
approval prior to the granting of a permit.)
(Prior Code, § 23-3-2)
§ 154.42 LOCAL GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit does not relieve the applicant from complying with this subchapter
or other ordinances applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-3)
§ 154.43 PERMITS.
   The Plan Commission shall review each application and plan documents
submitted. When the application and plan documents are found to be in
compliance with the rules and regulations for mobile home parks, as promulgated
by the State Department of Public Health, the Village Board may issue the
proper permit to construct or alter a mobile home park to the applicant.
Permits shall be valid for one year from the date of issue.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-4)
§ 154.44 INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Upon completion of the proposed construction of a mobile home park or the
proposed alteration of a mobile home park, the applicant shall notify the
Village Clerk in order that an inspection of the complete facilities can be
made.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-5)
§ 154.45 VIOLATION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to revocation or
suspension by the Mayor. However, the Mayor or his or her representative shall
first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a written notice in which
shall be specified the way or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply
with the statutes, or any rules or regulations promulgated by the village
pertaining thereto.
   (B)   The notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such
nuisance, unsanitary, or objectionable condition, specified in such notice
within five days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed by the
Village Board.
   (C)   If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the
notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Mayor or
his or her representative may revoke or suspend such license.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-6)
§ 154.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Each mobile home that locates on a lot in a mobile home park shall secure an
initial building (zoning) permit from the village. All future locations on the
same lot shall be exempt from the fee.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-7)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.60 PLAN DOCUMENT.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct or an original license to
operate a mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a
written application and plan documents and such plan documents shall be
prepared by a registered engineer or architect licensed to practice in the
state, with registration seal affixed.
   (B)   Two copies of the plan document shall accompany the application filed
with the Village Clerk to obtain a permit to construct or alter a mobile home
park or an original license to operate a mobile home park, not previously
licensed by the Department. These plans shall include, but not be limited to
the design and construction criteria set forth herein.   
(Prior Code, § 23-3-10)
§ 154.61 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant shall file with the Village Clerk a written
application and plan documents for the proposed construction or alteration of a
mobile home park.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be completed by the applicant and the
engineer or architect and shall include:
         (a)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or
names and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the
names and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of
incorporation must be filed with the application;
         (b)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon
which the mobile home park is to be located;
         (c)   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans, and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities; and
         (d)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $100
for a permit to construct, or an application fee of $25 for a permit to alter
to increase the size of the park.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-11)
§ 154.62 LOCATION.
   (A)   Sites selected for mobile home development shall be well-drained and
free from topographical or geological hindrances and from other conditions
unfavorable to a proper residential environment. The mobile home development
shall not be located near swamps, marshes, or other breeding places of insects,
rats, and mice. When a good, natural drainage is not available, storm drainage
shall be provided and such drainage shall not endanger any water supply or
surface watercourse.
   (B)   The Village Board may authorize a site survey to ascertain that the
proposed location complied with the above requirements.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-12)
§ 154.63 ROADWAYS, PARKING.
   (A)   All streets and driveways in every park shall be constructed in
compliance with the Chapter 155.
   (B)   All streets in parks constructed shall have a minimum right-of-way of
50 feet and a minimum road width of 32 feet for the purpose of this chapter,
and shall be considered private streets to be maintained by the park owner or
operator. If a mobile home park has more than 50 units, a wider street may be
required by the Plan Commission or corporate authorities.
   (C)   (1)   Sidewalks and walkways shall be constructed abutting a street in
a mobile home park and shall be a minimum of four feet in width; provided,
however, there shall be no minimum width requirement for sidewalks for each
individual lot.
      (2)   No portion of a mobile home shall block, in any way, the pedestrian
traffic on the walkways.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-13)
§ 154.64 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size for a mobile home pad shall be 6,000 square feet, with
a minimum frontage of 50 feet.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-17)
§ 154.65 MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home unit parked in a mobile home park shall be immobilized.
   (B)   Not more than one mobile home unit shall be parked in one space.
   (C)   No travel-trailer shall be permitted in any mobile home park, unless a
special area has been approved for that purpose by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 23-3-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Instances when plats will not be required
   
155.005   Interpretation
   
155.006   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.007   Review and expiration
   
155.008   Definitions
Preliminary Plats
   
155.020   General procedure
   
155.021   Filing procedure
   
155.022   Information required
   
155.023   Plan Commission action
   
155.024   Review by Village Board; time constraints
   
155.025   Rights, privileges of subdivider
Improvement Plans
   
155.040   Submission of plans
   
155.041   Information required
   
155.042   Inspections required
   
155.043   Filing “as-built” records
Completion of Required Improvements
   
155.055   Approval of final plat; improvements
   
155.056   Forms of assurance
   
155.057   Amount of bond or deposit
   
155.058   Eligible sureties
   
155.059   Term of assurance, extension
   
155.060   Release of bond; escrow deposit
   
155.061   Failure to complete improvements
Final Plats
   
155.075   Final plats
   
155.076   Filing time limits
   
155.077   Information required
   
155.078   Certificates required
   
155.079   Administrative review; advisory report
   
155.080   Action by Village Board
   
155.081   Changes in approved final plats
Maintenance of Improvements
   
155.095   Subdivider’s responsibility for improvements
   
155.096   Maintenance bond
Vacation of Plats
   
155.110   Plat vacation
Other Administrative Matters
   
155.125   Enforcement Officer, duties
   
155.126   Subdivision variances
   
155.127   Review by Plan Commission
   
155.128   Action by Village Board
   
155.129   Amendments
   
155.130   Schedule of fees
   
155.131   Time of payment
Design and Improvement Standards
   
155.145   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.146   Suitability for development generally
Lot Requirements
   
155.160   Conformity with zoning
   
155.161   Access, relationship to street
   
155.162   Reference monuments
Street Design Standards
   
155.175   Plan integration
   
155.176   Right-of-way, pavement widths
   
155.177   Topographical considerations
   
155.178   Through traffic discouraged
   
155.179   Limited access to arterials
   
155.180   Street design specifications
   
155.181   Dead-end streets
   
155.182   Intersections
   
155.183   Reverse curves
   
155.184   Improvements to existing streets
   
155.185   When excess right-of-way required
Street Improvement Standards
   
155.200   Developer’s expense
   
155.201   Street improvements
   
155.202   Curb and gutter
   
155.203   Maintenance responsibility
Blocks
   
155.215   Block width, length
   
155.216   Crosswalks
Sidewalks
   
155.230   Sidewalks required; construction
Streetlights
   
155.245   Intersections
   
155.246   Streetlight system standards
Street Name Signs
   
155.260   Specifications, approval
Utilities
   
155.275   Utilities
Water Facilities; Sanitary Sewers
   
155.290   Water facilities
   
155.291   Sanitary sewers
Drainage and Storm Sewers
   
155.305   Drainage, storm sewers
Other Provisions
   
155.320   General guidelines
   
155.321   Design criteria
Figures and Diagrams
   
155.335   Minimum sign lines at intersections
   
155.336   Minimum reverse curves
   
155.337   Typical curb and gutter
   
155.338   Inlets
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as and may be referred to as “the Land
Subdivision and Development Code” or “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 34-1-1)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-12-5 and 5/11-12-8 through 5/11-
12-12, and 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.), this chapter regulates the subdivision and
development of land in order to implement the Comprehensive Plan and official
map duly adopted by the village. Thus this chapter assists in achieving the
following specific objectives:
   (A)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare;
   (B)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly and
efficient layout and use of land and by facilitating aesthetic urban design;
   (C)   To establish accurate legal records, to avoid development in wetland
areas, and to avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land
be properly monumented and recorded;
   (D)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, and
buildings throughout the village;
   (E)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the village to the
maximum feasible extent, including preservation of such features as stands of
trees, streams, significant archaeological sites, and historical landmarks;
   (F)   To provide adequate light, air, and privacy for all residents of new
developments by preventing undue concentration of population;
   (G)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
flooding, stormwater run-off, or erosion and sedimentation;
   (H)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to avoid
traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the proper
location, design, and construction of streets and sidewalks;
   (I)   To provide an environment whereby the cost of installing and
maintaining adequate water mains, sanitary sewers, stormwater sewers, and other
utilities and services can be kept at a minimum; and
   (J)   To ensure that adequate parks, schools, and similar facilities can be
made available to serve the residents.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-2)
§ 155.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all planned developments
whether residential, commercial, or otherwise in nature, and to any other
developments whether a plat is required or not under the law, statutes,
ordinances, or regulations of the governmental body or agency having
jurisdiction or control, and regardless of whether the same is labeled a
subdivision or not, it being the intent of this chapter to apply to all types
of development, both within the village and to areas lying within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-3)
§ 155.004 INSTANCES WHEN PLATS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED.
   The provision of these regulations do not apply and no plat is required in
any of the following instances:
   (A)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access or special utility easements;
   (B)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
special utility easements;
   (C)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
   (D)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or
special utility easements;
   (E)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   (F)   Conveyance made to correct the description in prior conveyances;
   (G)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
recorded on or before July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or
easements of access or add special utility easements;
   (H)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access or special
utility easements; and
   (I)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger tract
when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that this
exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract existing as of October 1, 1973.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-4)
§ 155.005 INTERPRETATION.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
village, and every regulation set forth herein shall be considered the minimum
requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (A)   More restrictive requirements apply. Whenever the requirements of this
chapter differ from those of any statute, lawfully adopted ordinance, or
regulation, easement, covenant, or deed restriction, the more stringent
requirement shall prevail. Thus, in accordance with state law 65 ILCS 5/11-12-
11.
   (B)   County code. Whenever this chapter imposes higher standards shall
supersede the county regulations in the unincorporated territory located within
the village’s subdivision jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-5)
§ 155.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent, or employee of the village shall render himself
or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter. (See “Local Governmental and Governmental
Employee Tort Immunity Act,” 745 ILCS 10/1-101.)
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee
of the village, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the Village
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-6)
§ 155.007 REVIEW AND EXPIRATION.
   This chapter shall automatically expire and be without effect ten years
after the date of its enactment unless, following comprehensive review by the
Planning Commission, it has been reenacted prior to that date by the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-7)
§ 155.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in division (B) below;
terms not defined in division (B) below shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in the village’s Zoning Code (See
Chapter 156); if any term is not defined either in division (B) below or in the
Zoning Code, said term shall have its standard English dictionary meaning.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and vice versa.
      (5)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is discretionary.
      (6)   Captions (for example, titles of sections, divisions, and the like)
are intended merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
      (7)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions
within that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only
that division.
      (8)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
(Prior Code, § 34-2-1)
   (B)   Definitions.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor and the Village Board
to administer the Subdivision and Development Code.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street, and which
may be used for utility purposes.
      AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter, properly effected
in accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
      AREA, BUILDING. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the
main grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings
exclusive of unenclosed patios, terraces, and steps.
      AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property
proposed for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/
reserved for street and alley, rights-of-way, and for public uses.
      AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed or utilized primarily for high
vehicular speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with
intersections at grade, and on which traffic control devices are used to
expedite the safe movement of through traffic.
      BARRIER (NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL). Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment, or screening by a fence or hedge.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers,
or rights-of-way (except alleys, pedestrian ways, or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision unless exterior boundary is a street, highway, or right-of-way) or
bounded by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-
of-way, waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
      BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary, semi-permanent, or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of
persons or property.
      BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
      CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a
storm sewer, designed to retain matter that would not easily pass through the
storm sewer.
      CENTERLINE.
         (a)   The CENTERLINE of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
         (b)   The original CENTERLINE, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; or
         (c)   The new CENTERLINE, whenever a road has been relocated.
      CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerline of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said parallel
streets intersect.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision planned and constructed so as to group
housing units into relatively dense patterns while providing a unified network
of open space and wooded areas, and meeting the requirements of this chapter
and the Zoning Code.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
      COMMON LAND.
         (a)   The land set aside for open space or recreational use for the
owners of the lots of a subdivision, which land is conveyed by the developer in
fee simple absolute title by warranty to trustees whose trust indenture shall
provide that said COMMON LAND be used for the sole benefit, use, and enjoyment
of the lot owners present and future.
         (b)   No lot owner shall have the right to convey his or her interest
in the COMMON LAND except as an incident of the ownership of a regularly-
platted lot.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the
Village Board to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of
the village. The village’s COMPREHENSIVE PLAN may include, but is not limited
to, plans and programs regarding the location, character, and extent of
lightways, bridges, public buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential,
commercial, or industrial land uses, parks, drainage facilities, and the like.
      CROSS-SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way
rather than in the direction traffic moves on said right-of-way.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turn-
around for vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to said turn-
around.
      CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim fronting the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of concrete as a single
facility.
      DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land, or
improvement to the village or other appropriate government entity without
compensation.
      DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area, expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the net
acreage. See definition of AREA, NET.
      DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and the arrangement of
easements, lots, and rights-of-way, including specifications of materials,
alignment, grade, and width of these elements.
      DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefor.
      DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
      DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the village wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots, and uses under the terms of the village’s Zoning Code.
      DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek, or ditch which
carries stormwater run-off or which is fed by street or building gutters or by
stormwater sewers, or which serves the purpose of draining water from the lands
adjacent to such watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek, or ditch.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation, or
a person of the use of land for limited and specifically named purpose.
      ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure
the completion of improvements within a subdivision.
      FILING DATE. The date that the applicant has filed the last item of
required data or information with the Village Clerk and has paid the necessary
fees for review by the Plan Commission.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation from overflow
of natural waterways.
      FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
      GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed
as a percentage. Synonymous with SLOPE.
      HILLSIDE AREA. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
      IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work, and utilities
(including water, sewer, electric, gas, stormwater, telephone, and cable
television) to be installed or agreed to be installed by the subdivider on land
to be used for public or private streets and easements or other purposes as are
necessary for the general use of lot owners in the subdivision. Including the
furnishing of all materials, equipment, work, and services such as engineering,
staking, and supervision, necessary to construct all the improvements required
in §§
155.145 and
155.146 or any other improvements that may be provided by the subdivider. All
of such materials, equipment, and services shall be provided at the
subdivider’s cost and expense, although he or she may enter into a contract
with individuals and firms to complete such IMPROVEMENTS, and the IMPROVEMENTS
shall be subject to the final approval of the Plan Commission and the Village
Board.
      IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for earth moving and for the structures and facilities to
be installed both in, or in conjunction with, a subdivision. PLANS must include
drainage, streets, alleys, and utility locations to be installed in or in
conjunction with a subdivision; also includes overall drainage plan and its
effect on contiguous land and source of effluent or discharge.
      INLET. A receptacle, located where surface and/or groundwater can run to
by gravity to be received by the storm sewer.
      INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
      LAND USE PLAN. The comprehensive long-range plan for the desirable use of
land, the purpose of such plan being, among other things, to serve as a guide
to the zoning and progressive subdividing and use of undeveloped land.
      LOCAL STREET. A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic,
and for access to abutting property, and on which the speed limit is low and
the traffic volume minimal.
      LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether
immediate or future) of development or transfer of ownership. A LOT may or may
not coincide with a LOT OF RECORD.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lines of a lot, exclusive of any land designated for street right-of-way.
      LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner
lots.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front end and the
rear lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut any street.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. On a corner
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from
the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A corner
side lot line separating a lot from a street is called a street side lot line.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an INTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in accordance with state
law.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a part of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angle
to the general direction of the side lot lines.
      MAINTENANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by
the village, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed improvements
for the one-year period following their dedication.
      MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A combination of maps, drawings, site plans,
charts, and supportive narrative material that portrays total development to be
achieved in the overall project area, which provides sufficient detailed
information to both illustrate and describe the intended character and
configuration of development to be accomplished.
      METES AND BOUNDS. A description of real property which is not described
by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by starting at
a known point and description of the lines forming the boundaries of the
property or delineates a fractional portion of a section, lot, or area by
describing lines or portions thereof.
      OFFICIAL MAP. A graphic statement of the existing and proposed capital
improvements planned by the village which require the acquisition of land, such
as streets, drainage systems, parks, and the like.
      OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought
to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same
under these regulations.
      PARKING LANE. An auxiliary lane of a street and primarily used for
vehicular parking.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way dedicated to public use which cuts across
a block to facilitate safe pedestrian access to adjacent streets and
properties.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond posted by the developer and approved by
the village, guaranteeing the installation of required improvements within, or
in conjunction with, a subdivision.
      PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, syndicate, or trust.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the village.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A planned unit development is a
comprehensively planned development containing residential, commercial,
industrial, or other land uses on an area of land under continuing unified
control. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may contain a single type of land use or
combination of land uses provided that such development is reviewed, evaluated,
and approved by the village and satisfies the requirements contained herein.
      PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross-sections, profiles,
working details, and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent, and details of improvements required in
this chapter and which plans shall conform to any requirements of the Plan
Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the approval officials of
the village for consideration, approval, or disapproval.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final engineering and architectural maps, drawings, and
supporting material indicating the subdivider’s plan of the subdivision which,
if approved, may be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. Preliminary engineering and architectural maps,
drawings, and supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a
subdivision.
      PROJECT AREA. The territory intended to be subdivided or developed, and
portrayed and defined in the preliminary and final plats.
      RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition
by the village or other appropriate government entity for public purposes.
      RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and
adjacent lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property
deed as land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
      RE-SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
      RETENTION AREA. An area of land designed to capture water runoff from a
developed parcel and release it at a specified rate of flow as determined by
engineering studies. (See §
155.321(D).)
      REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the village or other appropriate government entity for streets,
alleys, and other public improvements; sometimes abbreviated as R.O.W.
      ROADBED. The graded portion of a street upon which the base course,
surface course, shoulders, and median are constructed.
      ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs, and gutter.
      SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side, or rear
lot line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side, or
rear yard.
      SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards
of this chapter, generally abutting or near the curb line of the street.
      SLOPE. The degree of inclination of site or right-of-way expressed as a
percentage. Synonymous for GRADE.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
      STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian or bicycle use only.
      STREET, AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY. Area service highways, interconnect
collectors, and land access streets with the principal system and vice versa,
which brings all developed areas within a reasonable distance of principal
streets, connects and provides direct access to major traffic generators,
provides secondary service to smaller communities, may provide access to
abutting property, and have a medium volume design capacity and travel speeds.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short, land-access street having only one end open
for vehicular traffic, and the other permanently terminated by a turn-around
for vehicles.
      STREET, DEAD END. Land access streets similar to cul-de-sacs, except that
they provide no turn-around circle at their closed end, and are not permitted
in any proposed subdivision.
      STREET, LAND ACCESS. Land access streets which provide access to abutting
properties, have a relatively short travel distance, and have a low volume
design capacity and travel speeds.
      STREET, LOOPED. Land access streets having two open ends, each end
generally connecting with the same street, no other streets intersecting
between its ends, and property fronts on both sides of the street.
      STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS, OR SERVICE ROAD. A land access street parallel
and adjacent to an area service highways providing access to abutting
properties.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on or in the ground, or is attached to something having a
fixed location on or in the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES but not all
STRUCTURES are buildings (for example, a fence).
      STUB OR BUTT STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is
planned for future continuation.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate, or other group
or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing to divide land in a
manner that constitutes a subdivision as defined in this section.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   The division of land in two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental, or building development or
use(s) other than agricultural use or production.
         (b)   Establishment or dedication of a public street or alley through
a tract of land regardless of size. The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all
re-subdivisions of land or lots.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of
land.
      TRAVELWAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
      VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision,
and to so note on the final plat recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
      VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the
design and improvement standards set forth in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth
of which is set forth in the Zoning Code.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
nearest rear main building and the rear lot lines. The depth of the required
REAR YARD shall be measured horizontally from the nearest part of the main
building toward the nearest point of the rear lot lines.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between a main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or front lot lines, where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the
nearest part of the main building.
      ZONING CODE. The Zoning Code of the village, if any.
(Prior Code, § 34-2-2)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 155.020 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before preparing a proposed plat for an area, the owner, developer, or
their representatives should have a pre-application meeting with the Plan
Commission and/or the Village Planner to determine applicable ordinance
regulations and standards which must be complied with. After the pre-
application meeting(s), the subdivider should then prepare the preliminary
plat.
   (B)   As defined in this chapter, the preliminary plat must contain a
substantial amount of data, and will thus be incomplete and cannot be
considered as filed until all required data are submitted. The preliminary plat
is received with filing fees by the Village Clerk’s office, who, in turn, will
forward the same to the Plan Commission for their review. Following its review
as well as comments from other appropriate agencies when required, the Plan
Commission forwards its recommendation(s) to the Village Board, who then either
approve, disapprove, or approve with modifications the preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-1)
§ 155.021 FILING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the municipality shall file six copies of the preliminary plat of said
subdivision with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   He or she shall also file one copy of the preliminary plat and
supporting data with the appropriate Soil and Water Conservation District. The
District shall have not more than 30 days to submit any comments it might wish
to make to the Administrator.
(70 ILCS 405/22.02A)
   (C)   He or she shall file a copy of the preliminary plan with the president
of the school board as provided by statute.
   (D)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a portion
of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, nonetheless, a Master
Development Plan of the entire tract shall be submitted.
   (E)   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance
with 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 and the provisions of division (F) below.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions as defined at §
155.008(B); or
      (2)   Land that is specifically exempted from the State Plats Act as now
or hereafter amended.
(765 ILCS 205/1(b))
(Prior Code, § 34-3-2)
§ 155.022 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a state registered land surveyor
at any scale from one inch equals 20 feet through one inch equals 100 feet,
provided the resultant drawing does not exceed 36 inches square:
   (A)   Small key map showing the relation of the proposed subdivision to
section or U.S. survey lines and to platted subdivisions and dedicated roads
within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision;
   (B)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not the owner), and
registered professional engineer;
   (C)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
   (D)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided, and of
the adjacent land;
   (E)   North arrow, graphic scale, and date of map;
   (F)   The gross and net acreage area of the proposed subdivision, the
acreage of streets, and of any areas reserved for the common use of the
property owners within the subdivision and/or for public use;
   (G)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
   (H)   Tract boundary lines showing dimensions, bearings, angles, and
references to known land lines;
   (I)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by a two-foot
contour data for land having slopes between 0% to 4%, five-foot contour data
for land having slopes between 4% to 12%, and ten-foot contour data for land
having slopes of 12% or more;
   (J)   Any proposed alteration, adjustment, or change in the elevation or
topography of any area;
   (K)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas, natural
drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools, and the like;
   (L)   Streets and rights-of-way on and adjoining the site of the proposed
subdivision, showing the names and including street right-of-way and paving
widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of pavement, curbs, sidewalks,
crosswalks, planting strips, and other pertinent data, including classification
of all existing or proposed streets as to function as collector, major, minor,
or county road;
   (M)   A copy of the results of any tests made to ascertain subsurface rock
and soil conditions and the water table;
   (N)   Locations, widths, and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
   (O)   A copy of the description of all proposed deed restrictions and
covenants;
   (P)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary and storm sewers;
   (Q)   Locations, types, and approximate sites of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
   (R)   Building setback or front yard lines and dimensions;
   (S)   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds, and other public purposes;
   (T)   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision; and
   (U)   Information as defined in §
155.023(B)(3).
(Prior Code, § 34-3-3)
§ 155.023 PLAN COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall either approve or disapprove the application
for preliminary plat approval within 60 days from the date of said application
or the filing of the last item of required supporting data, whichever date is
later, unless the Plan Commission and the subdivider mutually agree to extend
this time limit. If the Plan Commission disapproves the preliminary plat, it
shall furnish to the applicant within the 60-day period a written statement
specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this
chapter and/or the official map. If the Plan Commission approved the
preliminary plat, it shall inform the Village Board that action can be taken at
the next regularly scheduled Village Board meeting.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall give notice of its consideration of any
preliminary plat and allow the opportunity to be heard to the following person
(s) or groups during its preliminary review time span:
      (1)   Any person requesting notification of the meeting;
      (2)   Any property owner whose property is contiguous to the property,
including property across the streets, railroads, creeks, and similar barriers;
said information shall be provided by the applicant to the Village Clerk’s
office when filing the plat; and
      (3)   Any governmental or taxing body which requests notification of the
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-4)
§ 155.024 REVIEW BY VILLAGE BOARD; TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   (A)   The Village Board shall review the preliminary plat, along with the
Plan Commission recommendations, and approve, disapprove, or approve subject to
certain conditions and/or modifications said preliminary plat within 30 days
after its next regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the written
Plan Commission recommendations, unless variances from Zoning Code requirements
are needed, in which case, the Village Board’s 30 days commence the day after
the Board of Appeals hearing is held, as required by the Zoning Code.
   (B)   If the Village Board rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with this chapter
and/or the official map. The Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the
Board’s resolution of approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat. One copy
of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be
filed with the Administrator, and one copy shall be sent to the subdivider by
return receipt mail.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-5)
§ 155.025 RIGHTS, PRIVILEGES OF SUBDIVIDER.
   Preliminary plat approval shall confer the following rights and privileges
upon the subdivider.
   (A)   The preliminary plat will remain in effect for a one-year period from
the day the Village Board approves the same. The applicant may, during this
period, submit all or part or parts of said preliminary plat for final
approval. In the event that the subdivision is being developed in stages, the
applicant may, by written mutual agreement with the Village Board, have final
approval of the last part of the plat delayed for a period not to exceed five
years from the date of the preliminary plat approval. Any part of a subdivision
which is being developed in stages shall contain a tract of land at least one
block in area or five gross acres.
   (B)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
approval was granted will not be changed for final approval.
   (C)   The applicant may also proceed with any detailed improvement plans
required for all facilities or utilities intended to be provided. Actual
construction of such facilities and improvements may commence prior to final
plat approval if the detailed improvement plans have been recommended by the
Village Engineer and approved by the Village Board, provided that such
facilities and improvements will be inspected throughout their construction;
and final plat approval will be contingent in part upon acceptable compliance
to village improvement and facilities standards. If the applicant does not
submit the improvement plans prior to the submission of the final plat, then he
or she shall submit the improvement plans to the Village Clerk’s office at the
time that the final plat is submitted.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-6)
IMPROVEMENT PLANS
§ 155.040 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   (1)   After the Village Board has approved the preliminary plat, but
prior to submission of the final plat, the developer shall furnish six copies
of the plans and specifications for all improvements to be installed within or
in conjunction with the proposed development to the Village Clerk, and pay all
associated filing fees before review by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   These plans and specifications shall be signed and sealed by the
registered professional engineer responsible for their preparation.
   (B)   Until the Village Engineer certifies in writing that the proposed
improvements conform to generally accepted engineering practices and to the
standards in this chapter:
      (1)   The Administrator shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of said improvements; and
      (2)   The Village Board shall not act upon the application for final plat
approval.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-10)
§ 155.041 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Improvement plans shall consist of black or blue line prints not larger than
36 inches square. These plans and the related specifications shall provide all
of the following information:
   (A)   Topography of the tract, both before and after development, at the
same scale as the approved preliminary plat;
   (B)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerline of all streets;
   (C)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
   (D)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements including
curbs/gutters, catch basins, and inlets;
   (E)   Locations and typical cross-section of sidewalks and driveway aprons;
   (F)   Locations, sizes, and invert elevations of all existing and proposed
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and fire hydrants, showing connections to any
existing or proposed utility systems;
   (G)   Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric, and other utilities;
   (H)   Locations of street lighting standards and street signs;
   (I)   One or more bench marks, when requested by Engineer, in or near the
subdivision, to which the subdivision is referenced, the identity and elevation
shall be based on sea level datum;
   (J)   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
   (K)   High water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within the
tract;
   (L)   Such other information as the Village Engineer may reasonably require
to perform his or her duties under this section; and
   (M)   Existing and proposed survey monuments on street plans or on the
proposed final plat as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-11)
§ 155.042 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   The subdivider/developer shall notify the Administrator and the Building
Commissioner of both the start and completion of construction.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall inspect said improvements while they
are under construction. If he or she, or his or her designated deputy,
determines that they are being built in violation of this chapter, he or she
shall request that the Administrator promptly issue a stop order.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Commissioner and Village Engineer shall inspect
improvements upon their completion.
      (2)   The municipality shall not accept any completed improvement until
the Building Commissioner and Engineer have stated in writing that it complies
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-12)
§ 155.043 FILING “AS-BUILT” RECORDS.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall file with the Administrator a set of
producible cloth or polyester-base film positive showing the as-built details
and any deviations from the approved plans upon the completion of improvements,
or when 50% of the building permits have been issued in a given plat.
   (B)   The subdivider/developer shall pay the costs to add water, sewer,
street, and stormwater improvements to the overall village map(s), streets,
sewers, water, and stormwater.
   (C)   If the Administrator finds the as-built to be unacceptable, building
permits shall be discontinued until such time as the information is acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-13)
COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.055 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT; IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Village Board shall not approve any final plat of subdivision (and,
hence, said final plat shall not be entitled to recording) until:
   (A)   All improvements required in the improvement plan have been completed
by the subdivider/developer at his or her expense, inspected by the Building
Commissioner and Engineer, and dedicated to the municipality or other
appropriate entity; or
   (B)   In accordance with §§
155.056 through
155.061, the subdivider/developer has provided the municipality with legal
assurance to guarantee the satisfactory completion and dedication of all
required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-16)
§ 155.056 FORMS OF ASSURANCE.
   (A)   At the option of the Village Board, the required legal assurance may
be either a performance bond or an escrow deposit.
   (B)   Every performance bond shall be reviewed by the Village Attorney, and
posted with the Village Clerk. Any funds to be held in escrow shall be
deposited with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-17)
§ 155.057 AMOUNT OF BOND OR DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The amount of the performance bond or escrow deposit shall be equal to
the Village Engineer’s opinion of probable costs of constructing the
uncompleted portion of the required improvements, plus all required inspection
fees.
   (B)   Any escrow deposit may be in the form of:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to the municipality the availability of the escrow
funds from time to time upon demand; or
      (3)   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills, or other readily
negotiable instruments approved by the Village Clerk, and made payable to the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-18)
§ 155.058 ELIGIBLE SURETIES.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless he or she has been
approved by the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall conduct or cause to be conducted
spot audits of all sureties.
   (B)   Any surely who fails to perform shall be ineligible for two years
thereafter to act as surety for any subdivision improvement within the
municipality’s jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-19) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.059 TERM OF ASSURANCE, EXTENSION.
   (A)   The initial term of any performance bond or escrow agreement shall not
exceed two years.
   (B)   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of
the two-year period, the Plan Commission, with the advice and consent of the
Village Board, may either extend said bond/escrow agreement for one year only,
or may proceed as per §
155.061.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-20)
§ 155.060 RELEASE OF BOND; ESCROW DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk may release up to 90% of the amount of the
performance bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written authorization from the
Building Commissioner.
      (2)   The amount which the Building Commissioner authorizes to be
released shall be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in
accordance with approved plans.
   (B)   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit shall
not be released by the Village Clerk until:
      (1)   The Building Commissioner has certified to the Administrator in
writing that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
      (2)   Said improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to the
village or other appropriate entity.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-21)
§ 155.061 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of the
two-year period (or three-year period, in the case of an extension), the
Administrator, with the assistance of the Village Attorney, may:
   (A)   Require the surety to perform on the bond, and to pay to the
municipality an equal amount to the cost of completing the required
improvements or the amount of the bond not theretofore released, whichever is
less;
   (B)   Order the Village Clerk to retain all escrow funds needed to complete
the required improvements, and to return the balance (if any) of such funds to
the subdivider/developer; or
   (C)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-22)
FINAL PLATS
§ 155.075 FINAL PLATS.
   The Village Board shall not approve any final plat unless they determine
that it is in compliance with all pertinent requirements of this chapter
including those set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-25)
§ 155.076 FILING TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   The subdivider of every subdivision, whether major or minor but
excluding land specifically exempted from the State Plats Act as now or
hereafter amended (765 ILCS 205/1(b)), who desires final plat approval shall
file six copies of the final plat and supporting data with the Village Clerk
and pay all associated filing fees not later than one year after preliminary
plat approval has been granted. However, with the consent of the Village Board,
the subdivider may delay application for final approval of part(s) of the tract
shown on the preliminary plat for successive one-year periods. No subdivision
plat or re-plat shall be filed for record or recorded in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds, unless and until the approval of the village is
endorsed thereon. No lot shall be sold for such subdivision plat or re-plat
until it has been approved by the Village Board and filed for record in the
office of the County Recorder of Deeds as required by the State Statutes.
   (B)   (1)   For official filings, the subdivider shall file the approved
final plat with the County Recorder of Deeds within 60 days after the Village
Board has approved the same and the Mayor has affixed his or her signature
thereto.
      (2)   One copy of the final plat shall be given to the Village Clerk’s
office by the subdivider bearing the official stamp of the County Recorder
attesting its recording within 20 days of such action.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-26)
§ 155.077 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Every final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor on new linen tracing
cloth or polyester-base film with waterproof black ink at a scale not greater
than 100 feet equals one inch, provided that the resultant drawing shall not
exceed 36 inches square. The final plat and supporting data shall portray/
provide all of the following information:
   (A)   North arrow, graphic scale, and date;
   (B)   Name of subdivider, subdivision, and identification of the portion of
the public lands survey in which the subdivision is located;
   (C)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of the
tract, and the included area of the subdivision to the nearest one-hundredth of
an acre;
   (D)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles which
provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not more
than one foot in 10,000 feet;
   (E)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot;
   (F)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land within 300 feet,
by record name, plat book, and page number;
   (G)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the boundaries
of the subdivision;
   (H)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way, easements, and
lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles, or bearings and curve data,
including radii, arcs, or chords, points of tangency, and central angles;
   (I)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
   (J)   Purpose of any existing or proposed easement(s);
   (K)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions, and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
   (L)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are reserved;
   (M)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
   (N)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land, and become
covenants in the deeds of lots;
   (O)   Certification of dedication of all public areas;
   (P)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest established official
monument; reference corners shall be accurately described on the final plat;
   (Q)   Reference to known and permanent monuments and bench marks from which
future surveys may be made together with elevations of any bench marks; and the
surveyor must, at the time of making his or her survey, establish permanent
monuments (set in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost) which
mark the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided and must
designate upon the plat the locations where they may be found; and
   (R)   Location, type, material, and size of all monuments and lot markers.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-27)
§ 155.078 CERTIFICATES REQUIRED.
   As required by state law (765 ILCS 205/2 and 65 ILCS 5/11-12-8), the
following certificates shall be executed on the final plat:
   (A)   Owner’s certificate.
   OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
               
We, ___________________ , the Owners of  (description)  , have caused the said
tract to be surveyed and subdivided in the manner shown, and said subdivision
is to be hereinafter known as ______________________. All rights-of-way and
easements shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever
including the release and waiver of the right of homestead under the Homestead
Exemption laws of the State of Illinois.
Dated this _____ day of _____ , 20____,
 __________________________________ (Seal)
 __________________________________ (Seal)
 
   (B)   Notary public’s certificate.
   NOTARY PUBLIC’S CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois            )
                  ) SS
County of            )
I, ___________________ , a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid, do
hereby certify that                              
(owners) are personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are
subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they appeared before me this
day in person and acknowledged that they signed and sealed the same as their
free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth, including
the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this _________ day of _____ , 20_____,
 ___________________________________
    Notary Public
 
   (C)   Surveyor’s certificate.
   SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
I, ________________________ , an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor, do hereby
certify that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my
direct supervision at the request of ___________ for the purpose of
subdividing the tract into lots as shown.
 ___________________________________
    Land Surveyor
 ___________________________________
    Illinois Registration Number
 ___________________________________
    Date
 
   (D)   County Clerk’s certificate.
 
   COUNTY CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
I, _________________________ , County Clerk of ______________ County,
Illinois, do hereby certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against
any of the real estate included within this plat.
 ___________________________________
    County Clerk
 ___________________________________
    Date
 
   (E)   Certificate of Village Board.
 
   CERTIFICATE OF VILLAGE BOARD
I, ________________________________ , Mayor of the Village, do hereby certify
that the plat shown herein was duly presented to the Village Board and
approved at a meeting of same held on (date) .
 ___________________________________
    Mayor
 ___________________________________
    Village Clerk
 
   (F)   Flood hazard certificate.
   FLOOD HAZARD CERTIFICATE
We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that no part of this plat to be
recorded, is situated within five hundred (500) feet of any surface drain or
watercourse serving a tributary area of six hundred forty (640) acres or more,
or, if this plat is within five hundred (500) feet of any surface drain or
watercourse, we hereby certify that this plat has been reviewed by the
Illinois Department of Transportation Division of Water Resources and their
report is on file with the County Recorder of Deeds.
 By: ____________________________________________
    Owner(s)
 By: ______________________________________________
    Illinois Land Surveyor
 _________________________________________________
    Registration Number
 ________________________________________________
    Date
 
   (G)   Plan Commission certificate.
   PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois            )
                  ) SS
County of            )
   Approved this ________________ day of _______________________, 20___.
 ___________________________________
 CHAIRPERSON, PLAN COMMISSION
 ___________________________________
 SECRETARY, PLAN COMMISSION
 
(Prior Code, § 34-3-28)
§ 155.079 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW; ADVISORY REPORT.
   (A)   Within 30 days from the date of application for final plat approval,
the Building Commissioner and the Administrator shall review said final plat
(and supporting data), and shall each advise the Village Board in writing
whether it substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat and
improvement plans.
   (B)   A copy of their advisory report shall be forwarded to the Plan
Commission.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may prepare an addendum to said report (should it
so desire), and forward same to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-29)
§ 155.080 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Village Board shall either approve or disapprove the application
for final plat approval by resolution within 60 days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the Board and the subdivider mutually agree to
extend this time limit. The Village Board shall not approve any final plat
unless:
      (1)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary
plat;
      (2)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design and
improvements standards of this chapter, Zoning Code, and the official map;
      (3)   To the Board’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies with
all pertinent requirements of state law; and
      (4)   Either of the following has been met:
         (a)   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
accepted, and dedicated; or
         (b)   The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion and
dedication of all required improvements.
   (B)   If the Village Board disapproves the final plat, it resolution shall
specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions for
approval.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Board’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the final plat.
      (2)   One copy of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk,
one copy shall be filed with the Administrator, and one copy shall be given to
the subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-30)
§ 155.081 CHANGES IN APPROVED FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Once a final plat is approved by the Village Board, it shall not
thereafter be modified; provided, however, that minor changes may be made upon
written application to the Administrator.
   (B)   Major changes require the filing of a new final plat and complete
review.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-31)
MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.095 SUBDIVIDER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider/developer shall maintain all the improvements in the
subdivision until they have been accepted by and dedicated to the village or
other appropriate entity.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-35)
§ 155.096 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall post a maintenance bond
with the Village Clerk in the form approved by the Village Attorney. This bond
shall be in the amount determined by the Building Commissioner to be sufficient
to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements for a
period of one year from the date of their acceptance and dedication. If at any
time during the one-year period the improvements are found to be defective,
they shall be repaired/replaced at the subdivider/developer’s expense. If the
subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such costs within 90 days after
demand is made upon him or her by the Building Commissioner, the village shall
use the maintenance bond to make the necessary repairs/replacement. If the cost
of repairs/replacement exceeds the bond amount, the subdivider/developer shall
be liable for the excess. At the end of the one-year period, the maintenance
bond shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-36)
VACATION OF PLATS
§ 155.110 PLAT VACATION.
   In accordance with state law (765 ILCS 205/6, 205/7, and 205/8), any plat or
part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract at any time before the
sale of any lot therein by a written vacation instrument to which a copy of the
plat is attached. If there are public service facilities in any street, other
public way, or easement shown on said plat, the instrument shall reserve to the
village or other public entity or public utility owning such facilities the
property, rights-of-way, and easements necessary for continuing public service
by means of those facilities and for maintaining or reconstructing the same.
The vacation instrument shall be approved by the Board of Trustees in the same
manner as plats of subdivision and shall also be approved by the County
Superintendent of Highways, the Highway Commissioner of the appropriate
township, the District Engineer of the State Department of Public Works and
Buildings, and the public utilities. In the case of the platted tracts wherein
any lots have been sold, the written vacation instrument must also be signed by
all the owners of lots in said tracts.
(Prior Code, § 34-3-40)
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
§ 155.125 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, DUTIES.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad responsibility encompasses,
but is not limited to, the following specific duties.
   (A)   To review and forward preliminary plats to the Plan Commission (see §§
155.020 through
155.025);
   (B)   To transmit improvements plans to the Village Engineer for his or her
review (see §§
155.040 through
155.043);
   (C)   To review and forward final plats to the Village Board (see §
155.079);
   (D)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the Building Commissioner or
Village Engineer determines that approved improvements are being constructed in
violation of this chapter (see §
155.042);
   (E)   To pursue actions authorized at §
155.061 when a developer fails to complete required improvements;
   (F)   To evaluate and pass upon proposed changes in approved final plats
(see §
155.081);
   (G)   To review and forward applications for subdivision variances to the
Plan Commission (see §
155.126);
   (H)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this chapter
including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of completed
improvements (see §
155.043), final plats, variances, and amendments; and
   (I)   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-1)
§ 155.126 SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   Any subdivider/developer desiring a variance from the requirements of this
chapter shall file a written application therefor with the Administrator at the
same time that he or she files his or her preliminary plat. The application
shall fully explain the grounds for the variance request, and specify the
section(s) of this chapter which, if strictly applied, would cause great
practical difficulties or hardship. The Administrator shall prepare an advisory
report on every variance application and submit it, together with the completed
application, to the Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-2)
§ 155.127 REVIEW BY PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Plan Commission shall review the variance application and the
Administrator’s comments, perform on-site review when appropriate, and submit
their advisory report to the Village Board together with their recommendation
on preliminary plat approval (see §
155.020). The Plan Commission’s advisory report shall be responsive to all the
variances standards set forth in §
155.128.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-3)
§ 155.128 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   At the same meeting at which they take action on the application for
preliminary plat approval (see § 155.022), the Village Board shall decide by
resolution whether to grant or deny the requested subdivision variance. A copy
of their decision, clearly stating their reasons therefor and the exact terms
of any variance granted, shall be attached to both the preliminary and final
plats. The Village Board shall not grant any subdivision variance unless, based
upon the information presented to them, they determine that:
   (A)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of this
chapter (see §
155.002);
   (B)   Strict application of the subdivision requirements (see §§
155.145,
155.146,
155.160 through
155.162,
155.175 through
155.185,
155.200 through
155.203,
155.215,
155.216,
155.230,
155.245,
155.246,
155.260,
155.275,
155.290,
155.291,
155.305,
155.320, and
155.321) would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience;
   (C)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the subdivision
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
   (D)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
   (E)   The peculiar circumstances creating the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than a code amendment; and
   (F)   The variance, if granted, will not materially frustrate implementation
of the municipal comprehensive plan including the official map.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-4)
§ 155.129 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter may be proposed by the Administrator, any member
of the Village Board, any Plan Commission member, or any party in interest.
Every amendment proposal shall be filed on a prescribed form in the
Administrator’s office. The Administrator shall promptly transmit each
proposal, together with any comments or recommendations he or she may wish to
make, to the Plan Commission for a public hearing.
   (A)   Public hearing, notice. The Plan Commission shall hold a public
hearing on every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after said
proposal is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear
and testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the nature of the
proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before
the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality.
   (B)   Advisory report by Village Board. Within a reasonable time after the
public hearing, the Plan Commission shall submit an advisory report to the
Village Board. The Village Board shall act on the proposed amendment at its
next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of this report. Without
another public hearing, the Village Board may either pass or reject the
proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Plan Commission for further
consideration.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-5)
§ 155.130 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The review for the preliminary plat shall be $50, plus $5 per lot.
   (B)   The final plat fee shall be $50 if no variation from the preliminary
plat, otherwise $50, plus $5 per lot whenever Plan Commission review is
required.
   (C)   Improvement plan review and inspection fee shall be 1% of the total
opinion of probable cost for all improvements as determined by the Village
Engineer or by the total of all certified contracts for all work related to
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-6)
§ 155.131 TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All fees listed in §
155.130 shall be paid by the subdivider/developer or the applicant to the
Village Clerk’s office at the time of submission of documents.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-7)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.145 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   (1)   No land within the subdivision and development jurisdiction of
the municipality shall be subdivided or developed except in compliance with the
regulations of this subchapter and the applicable provisions of state law. (See
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 and 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.)
      (2)   No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
         (a)   The final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the
Village Board and recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds; and
         (b)   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has
been improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
such improvements.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall not issue a building permit for any
lot conveyed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-1)
§ 155.146 SUITABILITY FOR DEVELOPMENT GENERALLY.
   Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, poor drainage,
rough topography, adverse soil conditions, or other features which will be
harmful to the health, safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
development and/or its surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed
unless the subdivider/developer formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the
problems caused by the adverse land conditions.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-2)
LOT REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.160 CONFORMITY WITH ZONING.
 
   (A)   All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and
dimensions requirements of the zoning district in which said subdivision is
located; land that is under water or reserved for street improvements shall not
be counted to satisfy these minimum requirements.
   (B)   Every corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit
compliance with the district’s front setback requirements on every side of the
lot that faces a street.
   (C)   All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation
of unbuildable parcels. All lots shall contain adequate space for required off-
street parking and loading.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-4)
§ 155.161 ACCESS, RELATIONSHIP TO STREET.
   (A)   Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts a street
meeting the requirements of §
155.175.
   (B)   All side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street right-
of-way lines or radial to curved
street right-of-way lines except where a deviation from this rule will provide
a better street and lot design.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-5)
§ 155.162 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments set in the ground in
such a manner that they will not be moved by frost shall be placed in the field
in accordance with the Plats Act, as now or hereafter amended. (See 765 ILCS
205/1.)
   (B)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch iron pins not less
than 24 inches long.
   (C)   These pins shall be driven into the ground deep enough that they do
not protrude above the ground surface more than one-half inch.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-6)
STREET DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.175 PLAN INTEGRATION.
   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
street system indicated in the municipal comprehensive plan, and shall meet the
specifications set forth in §
155.180.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-7)
§ 155.176 RIGHT-OF-WAY, PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   (A)   Every right-of-way established for subdivision purposes is to be
separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and
not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. All
rights-of-way shall be dedicated to the public by the developer.
   (B)   The minimum pavement widths shall be as noted in §
155.180.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-8)
§ 155.177 TOPOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   Grades of street shall conform as closely as possible to the natural
topography, but shall not exceed the maximum grade nor be less than the minimum
grade indicated in §
155.180. All streets shall be arranged so that as many as possible of the
building sites are at or above street grade.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-9)
§ 155.178 THROUGH TRAFFIC DISCOURAGED.
   (A)   Marginal access and local streets shall be laid out so as to
discourage use by through traffic.
   (B)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern shall be avoided, and
the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped streets shall be
encouraged to effect a more desirable street layout.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-10)
§ 155.179 LIMITED ACCESS TO ARTERIALS.
   Where a development abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
street, the Plan Commission may recommend to the Village Board that access to
said arterial street be limited by one of the following means:
   (A)   By subdividing lots so they back onto the arterial street and front
onto a parallel local street (double frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access-restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
   (B)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered from
and generally at right angles to the arterial street, with the rear lot lines
or the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the arterial street; or
   (C)   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-11)
§ 155.180 STREET DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS.
STREET DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
Residential  Max. No. of Permitted Required Min.        Max.
Street       Dwelling    On-Street R.O.W.   Pavement    Gradient  Min.
Classificati Units/Net   Parking   (ft.)    Width (ft.) (%)       Gradient (%)
on           Acre
STREET DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
Residential  Max. No. of Permitted  Required Min.        Max.
Street       Dwelling    On-Street  R.O.W.   Pavement    Gradient  Min.
Classificati Units/Net   Parking    (ft.)    Width (ft.) (%)       Gradient (%)
on           Acre
Collector    None        None       80       44          8         1.0
             Over 250
Collector*   dwelling    None       70       28          6         1.0
             units
             served
Local        2.0-4.50    Both sides 45       30          6         1.0
Local        Both sides  Both sides 60       42          10        1.0
Local        None        None       60       26          10        1.0
Local        One side    One side   60       34          10        1.0
Local        4.50/Greate Both sides 50       34          6         1.0
Collector    r
Marginal     To 1.99     None       40       20          6         1.3
Access
Notes to Table:
* Parking land width, add ten feet
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 34)
§ 155.181 DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Temporary stub streets. Streets shall be so arranged to provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
and police protection, and efficient provision of utilities, and where such
continuation comports with the village’s official map. If the adjacent property
is undeveloped and the street must dead-end temporarily, the right-of-way shall
be extended to the property line, and no strip that would prevent connections
with future streets shall be reserved. A temporary turnabout shall be provided
at the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
   (B)   Permanent dead-end streets. For greater convenience to traffic and
more effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be
limited to 500 feet in length. The terminus of a permanent dead-end street
shall not be closer than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-
de-sac turnaround, having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a
minimum pavement radius of 42 feet shall be provided at the end of every
permanent dead-end street.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-12)
§ 155.182 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Only two streets. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one
point.
   (B)   Right angles.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at an angle of less
than 75 degrees.
      (2)   An oblique street shall be curved approaching an intersection and
shall be approximately at right angles with said intersection for at least 100
feet therefrom.
   (C)   Proper alignment.
      (1)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, whenever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street.
      (2)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall not
be permitted, except where the intersected street has divided lanes without
median breaks at either intersection.
      (3)   Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least 800 feet apart.
   (D)   Curb radii. To permit safe vehicular movements at corners, the minimum
curb radius at the intersection of two streets shall be 20 feet, and the
minimum radius at the back of the curb shall be 32 feet.
   (E)   Flat grade.
      (1)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical.
      (2)   In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than a 3% slope for a
distance of 50 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street shall be provided at the approach to an intersection.
   (F)   Maximum cross-slope. The cross-slopes on all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
   (G)   Adequate sight-lines. Where any street intersection will involve earth
banks or existing vegetation on the triangular area shown in § 155.190, the
developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation (including trees) in
connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent necessary
to provide an adequate sight distance.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-13)
§ 155.183 REVERSE CURVES.
   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse curves
on local collector and collector streets. (See § 155.191.)
(Prior Code, § 34-5-14)
§ 155.184 IMPROVEMENTS TO EXISTING STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever any development abuts an existing street that is narrower
than the standards indicated in §
155.180, the subdivider shall dedicate sufficient right-of-way on the side
abutting the development to permit compliance with those standards.
   (B)   The developer shall improve said street to the standards imposed at §§
155.200 through
155.203 and pay one-half the cost of said improvements.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-15)
§ 155.185 WHEN EXCESS RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIRED.
   Right-of-way width in excess of the standards set forth in §
155.180 shall be required where:
   (A)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide adequate
earth slopes; or
   (B)   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed to
construct overpasses, underpasses, and approaches thereto.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-16)
STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.200 DEVELOPER’S EXPENSE.
   All streets and alleys shall be improved solely at the expense of the
developer in accordance with the requirements set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-20)
§ 155.201 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All streets shall be graded as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   New streets. All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use
within a subdivision, shall be graded, drained, and surfaced in accordance with
the minimum requirements hereinbelow set forth and in a manner which will
provide complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys, and public
grounds which may be necessary in order to provide adequate and satisfactory
drainage along the side of any existing public street which lies adjacent to
the subdivision. In general, all such new streets within the subdivision and
all work to be undertaken thereof shall be designed and constructed according
to “IDOT Roads and Bridge Standard Specifications” as the same are in effect at
the time the preliminary plat and plans for such improvement work are submitted
for approval.
   (B)   Grading roadway and side slopes. The roadway shall be considered to be
that part of the improvement which lies between the right-of-way lines.
   (C)   Street construction standards. All streets within the jurisdictional
authority of the municipality other than state highways shall be improved with
pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutter, in accordance with the
following criteria.
      (1)   Collector street pavements shall be provided with a bituminous
surface of one and one-half inches of bituminous concrete binder and one and
one-half inches of bituminous concrete surface Class 1 placed upon a crush
stone base course of CA #6 having a minimum thickness of six inches compacted.
The center 40 feet of the base course shall have a crown of three inches.
      (2)   Local street pavements shall be provided with a CA #6 crushed stone
base course, having a minimum thickness of seven inches compacted. An A-
2 surface treatment shall be applied in accordance with the “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction of the State of Illinois,
Department of Transportation.”
      (3)   The crushed stone base course shall be permitted to remain
throughout one winter season before the bituminous surface is placed thereon.
Following inspection of the base and subbase as to compaction and thickness of
the base by the administrative officer, he or she may, by authority in writing
to the subdivider, waive the winter season waiting period. Compaction shall be
based on the percent of optimum density.
      (4)   The subdivider shall be required to improve arterial streets only
to the width required by the current and immediate needs of his or her
subdivision consistent to the standards and specifications herein contained.
   (D)   Alleys. Alleys, where permitted or required, shall be constructed as
specified for local streets.
   (E)   Utility lines.
      (1)   Underground utilities in streets or rights-of-way or in easements
shall be installed prior to the construction of such streets and/or alleys.
      (2)   Wherever possible, utilities will be placed in rear lot easements
with street placement permitted in only the most unusual circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-21)
§ 155.202 CURB AND GUTTER.
   All streets, except alleys and collector commercial, local commercial,
arterial, or industrial, shall be constructed with Portland cement concrete
vertical curb and gutter and/or V-type gutter in accordance with the dimensions
and specifications shown therefor in §§
155.335 through
155.338. Only vertical curb and gutter shall be constructed in industrial
streets. The materials and construction methods for curb and/or gutter shall
conform with IDOT Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-22)
§ 155.203 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Subsequent to completion of street construction by the
subdivider, the Village Engineer shall make a final inspection of all streets
to ascertain the acceptability of structural condition, earth slopes, drainage
structures, and the like.
      (2)   If said inspection indicates no deficient items, the village shall
take formal action to accept the completed streets for maintenance based upon
the Engineer’s recommendation.
   (B)   (1)   Should any item need correction or repair, the subdivider will
be notified in writing of each deficiency.
      (2)   No street(s) will be accepted in a subdivision until all streets
comply with the village’s requirements to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer.
      (3)   In addition, the developer will be required to provide a guarantee
in the form of a surety bond in the amount of $10,000 for a period of three
years.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-23)
BLOCKS
§ 155.215 BLOCK WIDTH, LENGTH.
   (A)   Width. Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two tiers of
lots having the minimum depth required by the zoning district regulations;
provided, that this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent to local
collector or collector streets, railroads, or watercourses.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-25)
   (B)   Length.
      (1)   No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor shorter than 500 feet.
      (2)   Wherever practicable, blocks along collector streets shall not be
less than 1,000 feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-26)
§ 155.216 CROSSWALKS.
   Crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required through the center
of blocks more than 1,000 feet long where necessary to provide circulation or
access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, or other
community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-27)
SIDEWALKS
§ 155.230 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required:
         (a)   On the recommendation of the Plan Commission that sidewalks are
needed to ensure public safety; or
         (b)   Along collector streets, near schools, and in shopping areas and
similar public places.
      (2)   These requirements shall not be waived unless the Plan Commission
advises the Village Board that, in the area in question, sidewalks are not
needed to ensure public safety, and/or that topographical conditions make the
installation of sidewalks impractical.
      (3)   All sidewalks constructed within the municipality shall meet “IDOT
Roads and Bridges Standard Specifications.”
(Prior Code, § 34-5-29)
   (B)   Construction.
      (1)   Relationship to curb. The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall
either abut the curb or be located at least six feet from the curb to allow
sufficient space for tree planting.
      (2)   Width.
         (a)   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide.
         (b)   Non-residential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   Thickness of concrete. All sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete at least four inches thick, except that across driveways the thickness
shall be increased to six inches and/or number six reinforcing mesh shall be
used.
      (4)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 6%.
      (5)   Ramps at intersections. When sidewalks are required, curbs shall be
cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all intersections so as to enhance the
mobility of handicapped individuals.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-30)
STREETLIGHTS
§ 155.245 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Streetlights shall be provided at each intersection of streets (or
alleys) within a subdivision and at each cul-de-sac, but in no event shall
there be less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or portion thereof) of street
frontage between intersections, or between a street intersection and the
terminus of a dead-end street.
   (B)   Additionally, in multiple-family dwelling subdivisions, lighting shall
be provided within parking areas at a minimum rate of one light per 25 parking
spaces or any fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-32)
§ 155.246 STREETLIGHT SYSTEM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and installation of the streetlight system in every
subdivision shall be reviewed by the Building Commissioner and the appropriate
electric utility company.
   (B)   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be equivalent, at a
minimum, to a 175-watt lamp or 6,800 mercury luminaire lamp. Each streetlight
standard post shall be at least 16 feet high.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-33)
STREET NAME SIGNS
§ 155.260 SPECIFICATIONS, APPROVAL.
   (A)   Street name signs of the size, height, and type approved by Building
Commissioner shall be supplied and placed by the developer at all intersections
within or abutting any subdivision.
   (B)   Street names shall be sufficiently different in sound and spelling
from other street names in the municipality so as to avoid confusion.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a list of existing street names for
reference.
   (D)   A street which is planned as a continuation of an existing street
shall bear the same name.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-35)
UTILITIES
§ 155.275 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Introduction. At locations within the subdivision where utilities and
drainage facilities are not to be constructed within public rights-of-way, the
subdivider shall make provision for easements for such installations.
Preliminary plats shall be submitted to the electric, gas, and telephone
companies for their input regarding utility easements.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-37)
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Utility easements, not less than 20 feet wide for sanitary sewers
and water mains and not less than 15 feet wide for gas, electric, telephone,
and cable television, shall be provided where necessary.
      (2)   Normally, in the case of abutting lots, an equal amount should be
taken from each lot.
      (3)   Property owners may (at their own risk) plant shrubbery or hedges
or install fences on the easement areas. Utilities (private and public),
however, in order to have access for repair shall have the election to destroy
said improvements and restore the area only by grading and seeding, or to have
alternate access through the owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-38)
   (C)   Drainage easements.
      (1)   Adequate easements for stormwater drainage shall be established
along any natural drainage channel and in such other locations as may be
necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of stormwater from streets, alleys,
and all other portions of the subdivision.
      (2)   The location and minimum widths of such easements shall be approved
by the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-39)
   (D)   Maintenance easements. Maintenance easements of not less than five
feet in width shall be provided along all rear and side lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-40)
WATER FACILITIES; SANITARY SEWERS
§ 155.290 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Water supply. An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided to
every platted lot in accordance with the State Department of Public Health
regulations. If the public water system is reasonably accessible, each lot
shall be properly connected thereto at the property line. All water
distribution lines shall be at least six inches in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-42)
   (B)   Compliance with regulations.
      (1)   All proposed water lines shall comply with the regulations of the
State Department of Public Health and the State Environmental Protection
Agency, and must be approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   All water lines must be constructed as per Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Mains, State of Illinois, fourth edition, or as amended.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-43)
   (C)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants of the type approved by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the
water distribution system, The distance from any lot to a hydrant, measured
along the centerline of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater than 400
feet.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-44)
§ 155.291 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Compliance with regulations. All proposed sanitary sewer facilities
shall comply with the regulations of the State Department of Public Health and
the State Environmental Protection Agency, and shall be approved by the Village
Board. All water and sewer lines shall be constructed as per Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewers Mains, State of Illinois, fourth edition,
or as amended.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-45)
   (B)   When public system planned. In areas where the public sanitary
sewerage system is not reasonably accessible but where plans for the
installation of said system have been approved by the State Environmental
Protection Agency, sanitary sewers shall be provided in accordance with such
plans and temporarily capped. To serve the subdivision until the time when
connection to the public system becomes practicable, an approved private
central sewage disposal system shall be installed, or individual sewage
disposal systems may be used.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-46)
   (C)   Alternate methods of disposal. In the event it is not possible, or
feasible, for the subdivider to extend the public sewer system into the
proposed subdivision, for whatever reason, the subdivider has the right to
petition the village to install an alternative method of sewage disposal. Any
such petition shall be considered on an individual basis with each case
standing on its own merit. No subdivision shall be approved without the
village’s approval of the method of sewage disposal.
      (1)   Private central sewage systems. Upon specific approval of the
Village Board, the subdivider may install a private central sewage system. The
village shall reserve the right to review and approve/reject the detailed plans
for such a system. Approval of the plans by the village shall in no way be
construed as acceptance of the design or operation or maintenance
responsibility for said installation. Such installation shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State
Environmental Protection Agency and the State Department of Public Health. The
subdivider shall assume perpetual operational and maintenance responsibilities
for such installation unless arrangements to the contrary are provided for in a
formal written agreement between home owners and the subdivider.
      (2)   Individual disposal systems. Upon written approval of the Village
Board, the subdivider may install individual sewage disposal systems providing
the lot size is in excess of 20,000 square feet. If such installations are
permitted, they shall be designed and installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the requirements and regulations of the “Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code” of the State Department of Public
Health.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-47)
DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS
§ 155.305 DRAINAGE, STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   (a)   It is the policy of the village to protect and promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare. The criteria for stormwater
detention will reduce the possibility of damage to public and private property,
will reduce the erosion on land and creek channels, will assist in the
attainment and maintenance of water quality standards, and will preserve and
enhance the environmental quality of the watercourses in the village.
         (b)   This criteria provides uniform procedures for designing and
checking the design of storm drainage detention systems.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall not recommend the approval of any plat
unless, after consultation with the Village Engineer, they determine that the
purposed provisions for stormwater drainage are adequate. Drainage improvements
in the subdivision shall be coordinated with existing and planned drainage
improvements elsewhere so as to form an integrated municipal system. The
stormwater drainage system shall be separate and independent of the sanitary
sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-49)
   (B)   Special definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any activity, including subdivisions, that alters the
surface of the land to create additional impervious surfaces including, but not
limited to, pavement, buildings, and structures except:
         (a)   Additions to or improvements and repair of existing single-
family and duplex dwellings;
         (b)   Construction of any buildings, structures, and/or appurtenant
service roads, drives, and walks on a site having previously provided
stormwater control as part of a larger unit of development consistent with the
original development plan;
         (c)   Remodeling, repair, replacement, and improvements to any
existing structure or facility and appurtenances that does not increase the
impervious area on the site in excess of 10% or add one acre of impervious
area; and/or
         (d)   Construction of any one new single-family or duplex dwelling
unit, irrespective of the site area on which the same may be situated.
      EMERGENCY SPILLWAY.
         (a)   A device or devices used to discharge water under conditions of
inflow that exceed the design inflow.
         (b)   The emergency spillway functions primarily to prevent damage to
the detention facility that would permit the sudden release of impounded water.
         (c)   It shall be designed to handle the runoff from a 100-year storm.
      FREEBOARD. The difference in elevation between the top of a structure
such as a dam or open channel and the maximum design water surface elevation or
high water mark and is an allowance against overtopping by waves or other
transient disturbances.
      ILLINOIS PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR URBAN SOIL EROSION AND
SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MANUAL. March 1982 (IPSUSESCM).
      PRINCIPAL SPILLWAY. A device such as an inlet, pipe, weir, and the like,
to discharge water during operation of the facility under the conditions of a
15 years or less return frequency of the existing conditions before the
proposed development.
      PRIVATE DETENTION FACILITY. Any detention facility located on and
controlling discharge from a site wholly owned and controlled by one owner and
not platted for future subdivision of ownership. Also, all facilities
incorporating detention storage of stormwater in or on any of the following:
         (a)   Roofs of buildings or structures also used for other purposes;
         (b)   Paved or surfaced areas also used for other purposes; or
         (c)   Enclosed underground pipes or structures on private property
when the surface is used for other purposes.
      PUBLIC DETENTION FACILITY. Any detention facility controlling discharge
from a tributary area owned by more than one owner and/or platted for future
subdivision of ownership, except as defined as a private detention facility
herein.
      RATIONAL METHOD. An empirical formula for calculating peak rates of
runoff resulting from rainfall.
      TRIBUTARY AREA. All land draining to the point of consideration,
regardless of ownership.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-50)
OTHER PROVISIONS
§ 155.320 GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all development within the
limits of the village. Residential developments having a total area of less
than five acres, and commercial or industrial developments having a total area
of less than two acres, may be given a waiver by the village in accordance with
§
155.128, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The village retains the right to require detention storage in all
cases in which the proposed development will generate excess runoff that
adversely affects the carrying capacity of the receiving watercourse.
      (2)   Developments less than two acres with less than 30% of the area
paved and developments generating less than one cubic foot per second (CFS)/
acre increased runoff shall not be required to provide detention storage,
unless conditions under division (A)(1) above are applicable.
      (3)   This chapter shall apply for all newly platted areas and new
development proposed after the date of passage of this chapter. All development
that have an approved preliminary plan by the Plan Commission at the time of
the approval of this chapter will not have to conform to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-52)
   (B)   Affidavit of disclosure of property interests.
      (1)   The effective acreage for a site is not limited to a fractional
part of the total.
      (2)   If a project is developed in phases or small plats, the total
acreage of the project site must be considered.
      (3)   At the time the owner of any development submits a preliminary plat
or preliminary plan, he or she shall also identify to the village all
contiguous property or property in the watershed that he or she has interest
in.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-53)
   (C)   Method of evaluation. The storage capacity and discharge rate shall be
based upon the calculated volume and peak flow of the stormwater runoff,
respectively. The calculations for sites having an area of 100 acres or less
shall be made using either the Illinois Manual for Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Method or the rational method. If the site is larger than
100 acres then the Engineer shall use the Illinois Manual for Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Method or if another method is desired to be used, the
Engineer shall submit a proposed method of evaluation for the calculations for
review and approval. The permitted discharge rate of stormwater runoff shall be
determined by calculating the rate of runoff for the site’s pre- and post-
development conditions. The Engineer shall determine the most critical storm
looking at three different time periods:
      (1)   The time of concentration;
      (2)   A one-hour storm; and
      (3)   A 24-hour storm.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-54)
   (D)   Detention of differential runoff. All new developments shall provide a
stormwater system that ensures that the rate of flow of stormwater runoff
discharged from the site after development does not exceed the rate of flow of
stormwater runoff discharged from the site before development of a 25-year
storm, unless given a waiver by the village in accordance with §
155.128. Data shall be submitted for the 15-, 25-, and 100-year frequency
storm.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-55)
   (E)   Flows from upstream areas. Flows from upstream areas outside the site
should be based upon the assumption that those areas are fully developed under
forecast land use patterns. The required storage volume will be based upon the
site only, with flows from upstream areas being by-passed or discharged via
overflow spillways or other devices for the 100-year storm.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-56)
   (F)   Facilities in floodplains. If detention storage is provided within a
floodplain, only the net increase in storage volume above that which naturally
existed on the floodplain shall be credited to the development. No credit will
be granted for volumes below the elevation of the base flood at that location
unless compensatory storage is also provided. Where encroachments in the
existing floodplain fill the valley storage areas, an equal amount of detention
volume shall be provided.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-57)
   (G)   Land credit for detention facilities. The number of units/lots shall
be based on the total area of the tract to be developed. All areas to be used
as detention facilities shall be included in this total area.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-58)
§ 155.321 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   General requirements. The design shall be accomplished under the
direction of a registered professional engineer. The design shall also be based
on land use in the tributary area as zoned, actually developed, or indicated by
an adopted future land use plan, whichever basis produces the greatest runoff.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-60)
   (B)   Other references. Other agencies have criteria and regulations
pertaining to drainage systems which may complement this criteria. When
conflicts are encountered the most rigorous criteria shall govern.
      (1)   Federal Insurance Agency floodplain regulations and implementing
ordinances adopted by municipalities. Drainage systems designed within the
limits of the designated 100-year floodplain on the principal stream shall be
designed to convey the flood as defined by applicable published floodplain
information studies. For areas located in FIA Zone “A” outside the detailed
study area, the developer shall prepare studies and calculations establishing
the floodplain elevation and width. These calculations shall be submitted to
the reviewing agency for approval.
      (2)   State Department of Water Resources. Rules and regulations of dams
and reservoirs shall apply to those structures classified as dams thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-61)
   (C)   Stormwater runoff. The design criteria used in determining the amount
of runoff shall be the same as set out in §
155.305.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-62)
   (D)   Hydraulic considerations for detention storage.
      (1)   Principal spillways. Shall be designed to meet the following:
         (a)   The principal spillway shall be designed to function without
requiring attendance or operation of any kind or requiring use of equipment or
tools;
         (b)   All discharge from the detention facility when inflow is equal
to or less than the 100-year inflow shall be via the principal spillway(s);
         (c)   The design shall allow for discharge of at least 80% of the
detention storage volume within 24 hours after the peak or center of mass of
the inflow has entered the detention basin. On basins less than 100 acres, this
shall not apply; and
         (d)   The design discharge rate via the spillway shall continuously
increase with increasing head and shall have hydraulic characteristics similar
to weirs, orifices, or pipes.
      (2) Emergency spillways. The emergency spillway shall be provided to pass
a 100-year storm without damaging any property and where applicable designed to
the State Department of Water Resources dam safety requirements.
      (3)   Outlet works. Shall have an outlet works consisting of valves,
gates, pipes, and other devices as necessary to completely drain the facility
in 72 hours or less when required for maintenance or inspection on normally wet
basins.
      (4)   Sediment storage.
         (a)   Shall be designed to provide for five years of sediment
accumulation calculated by using § 155.190. All other detention facilities
shall provide storage for two years of sediment accumulation by using §
155.190, except for those using roofs of buildings, paved parking areas, or
other facilities designed to preclude the deposition or accumulation of
sediment.
         (b)   Sediment storage volume shall be in addition to the volume
required for temporary storage of stormwater to properly size the detention
facility on normally wet basins.
      (5)   Erosion control. Principal spillways and outlet works shall be
designed to prevent erosion and if necessary equipped with energy dissipating
devices to slow the water to normal velocity as called out in the IPSUSESC
manual. Special measures shall be taken by the developer to not permit sediment
from filling the proposed detention basin during all construction of the
proposed development.
      (6)   Public detention facilities. The owner shall dedicate the detention
facility and easements as set forth upon completion of the one-year warranty
period and approval by the Village Engineer, except:
         (a)   When multipurpose wet facilities are planned or are suitable for
use for private aquatic recreation or for aesthetic enhancement of the owner’s
property; or
         (b)   When multi-purpose dry facilities incorporate surface
recreational improvements.
      (7)   Private detention facilities.
         (a)   Shall be designed requiring the same criteria as the public
detention facilities.
         (b)   The amount of easement shall be equal to the land occupied by
the facility plus a 20-foot wide strip around the perimeter of the highest
elevation attained by the design storage volume, plus an excess easement 20
feet in width between the facility and public street.
         (c)   This easement shall be shown as common ground or be dedicated to
the trustees of the
subdivision or owner of the property for the purpose of maintenance of the
stormwater detention facility.
         (d)   A plan for perpetual maintenance and designating responsibility
for the maintenance shall be provided for its continuing performance to the
standards established by this criteria.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-63)
   (E)   Plan requirements. The plan requirements shall be:
      (1)   Elevation area capacity curves for the storage facility including
notation of the storage volumes allocated to runoff, and permanent residual
water storage for other uses (wet basins only);
      (2)   Inflow hydrographs (detention volumes for rational method) for the
15-, 25-, and 100-year recurrence interval design storms;
      (3)   Stage discharge rating curves for each spillway and for combined
spillway discharges; and
      (4)   Routing curves for the 15-year and all greater criteria recurrence
interval design storms with time plotted as the abscissa and the following
plotted as ordinates (this item is not required for the rational method):
         (a)   Cumulative inflow volume;
         (b)   Cumulative discharge; and
         (c)   Stage elevation.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-65)
   (F)   Construction alternatives.
      (1)   A developer shall build, as part of his or her development, a
detention basin as required by this chapter, unless the following sections
apply.
      (2)   (a)   Developers of an adjacent tract may combine to build one
detention site large enough to meet the requirements of all the tracts of land
with approval of the village.
         (b)   The basin shall be located in the same drainage basin.
      (3)   On-site detention will be required whenever increased run-off from
the proposed development creates a hazard down stream as determined by the
Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-66)
   (G)   Inspection, maintenance, and acceptance by village.
      (1)   Inspection.
         (a)   The developer shall inspect or cause to be inspected all
stormwater detention systems constructed within the village.
         (b)   Through such inspection reports the Village Engineer shall
ensure that the facilities under construction are being constructed in
accordance with the approved plans for such development.
      (2)   Maintenance.
         (a)   Each owner of the property being developed has the
responsibility and duty to properly operate and maintain any stormwater
management system which has not been accepted for maintenance by the village.
         (b)   The responsibility of maintenance of the system and subdivision
projects shall remain with the developer until such time as the stormwater
management system escrow for such development has been released at the end of
the one-year warranty period.
         (c)   Upon release of escrow, the maintenance responsibility shall be
vested in the trustees of the subdivision by virtue of a trust indenture.
Indenture of trusts shall clearly indicate resident responsibility for
maintenance.
         (d)   All such privately-owned maintained systems shall be subject to
periodic inspections by the Village Engineer or its representative.
         (e)   After an inspection by the Village Engineer, he or she
determines whether or not the conditions of the privately-owned stormwater
detention system are safe and correct.
         (f)   Any cost incurred by the village, as a result of the Village
Engineer’s actions, shall be attest against the owner(s) of the system.
      (3)   Acceptance.
         (a)   Upon acceptance by the Village Board, the stormwater detention
system may be dedicated to the village for perpetual maintenance.
         (b)   Any such system shall include adequate perpetual access and
sufficient area for maintenance by the village personnel and vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-67)
FIGURES AND DIAGRAMS
§ 155.335 MINIMUM SIGN LINES AT INTERSECTIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2490.png]
(Prior Code, Chapter 34)
§ 155.336 MINIMUM REVERSE CURVES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2492.png]
(Prior Code, Chapter 34)
§ 155.337 TYPICAL CURB AND GUTTER.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2494.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2496.png]
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 34)
§ 155.338 INLETS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2498.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2500.png]
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 34 )
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A )   ( 1)     An y person wh o is co nvicted of a vi olation of this ch
apter sh all be gu ilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs. Each day that a violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this division (A) shall prevent the
municipality from taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to
secure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-4-8)
   (B)   Failure of the subdivider to discharge his or her operational/
maintenance responsibilities, as outlined in §
155.291(C)(1), may result in a fine of $500 per day for each day a deficiency
exists and shall apply to the subdivider and his or her heirs, successors, or
assigns.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-57)
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including conditions and safeguards established, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Each day such violation continues shall be considered
a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-69)
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful actions as is necessary to forbid or remedy any violations. All
such costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons
responsible.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-70)
   (D)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be, upon conviction,
subject to a fine of up to $500 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 34-5-71)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Title
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Jurisdiction
   
156.004   Conflict with other ordinances
   
156.005   Disclaimer of liability
   
156.006   Existing permits
   
156.007   Completion permitted
   
156.008   Definitions
   
156.009   Establishment of districts
   
156.010   Zoning map, district boundaries
   
156.011   Annual publication
   
156.012   Determination of district boundaries
   
156.013   Zoning of annexed areas
   
156.014   General prohibition
   
156.015   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
156.016   One building, all yards on one lot
   
156.017   Access required
   
156.018   Front setbacks; corner, through lots
   
156.019   Front setbacks; certain built-up areas
   
156.020   Intrusions into yards
   
156.021   Exceptions to height limits
   
156.022   Sewers; septic tanks
   
156.023   Accessory uses
   
156.024   Area-bulk regulations
Planned Developments
   
156.035   Planned development defined
   
156.036   Objectives
   
156.037   Compliance with regulations generally required
   
156.038   Districts where allowed
   
156.039   Permissible deviation from code requirements
   
156.040   Procedures for planning developments
   
156.041   Application; information required
   
156.042   Criteria considered
   
156.043   Decision by Zoning Board
   
156.044   Changes in approved plans
   
156.045   Failure to begin development
   
156.046   Municipal exemption
A-1 Agricultural District
   
156.060   Generally
   
156.061   One dwelling on one lot
   
156.062   Lot, building requirements
   
156.063   Permitted uses
   
156.064   Special uses
   
156.065   Permitted accessory uses
SR-1 Single-Family District
   
156.080   Generally
   
156.081   Special restrictions
   
156.082   Lot, building requirements
   
156.083   Permitted uses
   
156.084   Special uses
   
156.085   Permitted accessory uses
SR-2 Single-Family District
   
156.100   Generally
   
156.101   Special restrictions
   
156.102   Lot, building requirements
   
156.103   Permitted uses
   
156.104   Special uses
   
156.105   Permitted accessory uses
MR-1 Multiple-Family District
   
156.120   Generally
   
156.121   Lot, building requirements
   
156.122   Permitted uses
   
156.123   Special uses
   
156.124   Permitted accessory uses
B-1 Business District
   
156.135   Generally
   
156.136   Lot, building requirements
   
156.137   Permitted uses
   
156.138   Special uses
   
156.139   Permitted accessory uses
B-2 Highway Business District
   
156.150   Generally
   
156.151   Use restrictions
   
156.152   Lot, building requirements
   
156.153   Permitted uses
   
156.154   Special uses
   
156.155   Permitted accessory uses
I-1 Industrial District
   
156.170   Generally
   
156.171   Use restriction
   
156.172   Lot, structure requirements
   
156.173   Permitted uses
   
156.174   Special uses
   
156.175   Permitted accessory uses
Off-Street Parking, Loading
   
156.190   Applicability
   
156.191   Existing parking, loading facilities
   
156.192   Parking lot design standards
   
156.193   Spaces
   
156.194   Interior aisles
   
156.195   Access way
   
156.196   Surfacing
   
156.197   Lighting
   
156.198   Landscaping
   
156.199   Location of parking
   
156.200   Design, location of off-street loading
   
156.201   Computation of required parking, loading spaces
   
156.202   Number of parking, loading spaces required
Sign Regulations
   
156.215   Purpose
   
156.216   General prohibition
   
156.217   Computation of sign area allowance
   
156.218   Definition of sign area
   
156.219   Special situations
   
156.220   Signs to be non-hazardous, well maintained
   
156.221   Illumination
   
156.222   Non-conforming signs
   
156.223   Restrictions
   
156.224   Strictly prohibited signs
   
156.225   Signs permitted in any District
   
156.226   Agricultural; Residential Districts
   
156.227   Business; Industrial Districts
   
156.228   Temporary signs
   
156.229   Removal of sign
   
156.230   Appeals
   
156.231   Permit requirements
   
156.232   Applications
   
156.233   Nullification
Additional Supplementary Regulations
   
156.245   Applicability
   
156.246   Agricultural activities
   
156.247   Fences, walls
   
156.248   Home occupations
   
156.249   Junk yards
   
156.250   Nursing homes
   
156.251   Recreational vehicles
   
156.252   Service stations
   
156.253   Swimming pools
   
156.254   Utility substations
   
156.255   Lighting controls
Non-Conformities
   
156.270   Purpose
   
156.271   Non-conforming lots
   
156.272   Non-conforming structures
   
156.273   Non-conforming uses occupying a structure
   
156.274   Non-conforming use of land
   
156.275   Non-conformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.290   Appointment, duties of Zoning Administrator
   
156.291   Initial certificates of zoning compliance
   
156.292   Zoning application
   
156.293   Duration of certificate
   
156.294   Relationship to building permits
   
156.295   Final certificates of zoning compliance
   
156.296   Corrective action orders
   
156.297   Contents of order
   
156.298   Service of order
   
156.299   Stop orders
   
156.300   Emergency measures
   
156.301   Complaints
   
156.302   Fees
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.315   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
156.316   Membership, appointment
   
156.317   Term of office; vacancies
   
156.318   Meeting, quorum
   
156.319   Records
   
156.320   Decisions
   
156.321   Period of validity
   
156.322   Finality of decisions of Village Board
   
156.323   Office of the Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals
Appeals
   
156.335   Nature of an appeal
   
156.336   Filing, record transmittal
   
156.337   Stay of further proceedings
   
156.338   Public hearing, notice
   
156.339   Decision by Board of Zoning Appeals
Variances
   
156.350   Variances
   
156.351   Application
   
156.352   Public hearing, notice
   
156.353   Standards for variances
   
156.354   Decision by Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.355   Action by Village Board
Special Uses
   
156.370   Special use permit
   
156.371   Application
   
156.372   Public hearing, notice
   
156.373   Advisory report; factors considered
   
156.374   Action by Village Board
   
156.375   Temporary use permits; procedure
Amendments
   
156.390   Amendments
   
156.391   Filing
   
156.392   Public hearing; notice
   
156.393   Advisory report; findings of fact
   
156.394   Action by Village Board
   
156.395   When two-thirds majority vote is required
   
156.396   Notice to applicant of written protest
Diagrams, Illustrations, Charts
   
156.410   Area, bulk regulations; summary sheet
   
156.411   Corners
   
156.412   Lot terms
   
156.413   Modular, mobile home identification seals
   
156.414   Sign area, projecting sign, free-standing sign
   
156.415   Control along intersecting highways
 
   
156.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Plan Commission, see §§
32.01 through
32.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and cited as the “Zoning Code of the Village
of Livingston, Illinois,” the “Zoning Code,” or “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 40-1-1)
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates lots, structures, and
uses in order to preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare. More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
   (A)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
   (B)   To serve as a tool to implement comprehensive planning;
   (C)   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial, and industrial areas, and to gradually eliminate non-
conforming uses and structures and to fix reasonable standards to which
buildings or structures shall conform;
   (D)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout the
village;
   (E)   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air, and privacy for the
occupants of all buildings;
   (F)   To protect persons and property from damage caused by fire, flooding,
and improper sewage disposal;
   (G)   To provide adequate and well-designed parking and loading space for
all buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public
streets and highways;
   (H)   To ensure the proper design and improvement of mobile home parks;
   (I)   To promote the use of signs which are safe, aesthetically pleasing,
compatible with their surroundings, and legible in the circumstances in which
they are seen;
   (J)   To establish the extent to which water, sewer, stormwater, and other
utility and community services are to be provided;
   (K)   To divide the village into zoning districts restricting and regulating
the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures, and land for residential business manufacturing and
other specified land uses;
   (L)   To establish minimum requirements and standards for development and
redevelopment within the area of the village’s jurisdiction to achieve
reasonable initial costs and to reduce future maintenance costs of public and
private improvements and services; and
   (M)   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of
all the substantive regulations in this chapter.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-1)
(Prior Code, § 40-1-2)
§ 156.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable only within the corporate limits of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-3)
§ 156.004 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the village and every requirement imposed herein shall be deemed minimal.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements
of any other lawfully adopted and effective ordinance, regulation, deed
restriction, or covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-4)
§ 156.005 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
official, board member, agent, or employee of the village shall render himself
or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter. (See “Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act,” 745 ILCS 10/1-101.)
   (B)   Any suit brought against any official, board member, agent, or
employee of the village as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the
Village Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-5)
§ 156.006 EXISTING PERMITS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate or annul any building permits,
certificates of occupancy, variances, or other lawful permits issued before the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-8)
§ 156.007 COMPLETION PERMITTED.
   Any building or structure for which a building permit has been used prior to
the date of enactment of this chapter may be completed and used in accordance
with the plans, specifications, and permits on which said building permit was
granted, provided construction commences within 180 days of passage of this
chapter and is diligently prosecuted to completion within one year.
(Prior Code, § 40-1-9)
§ 156.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in division (B) below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise;
terms not defined in division (B) below shall have their standard English
dictionary meanings.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and the plural shall include the singular.
      (5)   The term “shall” is mandatory; the term “may” is discretionary.
      (6)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
      (7)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions
within that section, but a reference to a particular division designates only
that division.
      (8)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
(Prior Code, § 40-2-1)
   (B)   Definitions.
      ABANDONMENT. An action to give up one’s rights or interests in property.
      ABUTTING. Having a common lot line or district line. (Synonymous for
ADJACENT or ADJOINING.)
      ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, or other means for providing vehicular
access to an off-street parking or loading area.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building or
structure, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main use
of the main land and which is located on the same lot with the main building or
use.
      ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
         (a)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure which
it serves;
         (b)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal use or structure served; and
         (c)   Located on the same lot as the principal use or structure
served.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the President of the Board of
Trustees, with the advice and consent of the Village Board, or his or her
representative, to administer this chapter. (Synonymous with ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR or ZONING OFFICER.)
      AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse, and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
      AISLE. A vehicular traffic-way within an off-street parking area, used as
a means of access/egress from parking spaces.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
      ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the existing facilities, or an
enlargement, whether by horizontal extensions or by increasing in height, or
the moving from one location or position to another.
      ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. A change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
      AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including the
district map), properly effected in accordance with state law and the
procedures set forth herein.
      ANCHOR. Any approved device to which a mobile home is tied down to keep
it firmly attached to the stand on which it is placed.
      ANIMALS, DOMESTIC. One which has extensively and historically been a part
of a family or household for pleasure, companionship, and protection.
DOMESTICATED ANIMALS are household pets and is inclusive of animals, fowl,
reptiles, and fish, such as dogs, cats, parakeets, goldfish, and painted
turtles.
      ANIMALS, FARM. Those which have historically been bred, reared, and
utilized for the production of meat, wool, leather, and similar products. This
definition is inclusive of all farm animals, fowl, reptiles, and fish, such as
horses, cattle, rabbits, sheep, geese, chickens, ducks, snakes, and catfish.
      ANIMALS, WILD. Those animals, fowl, reptiles, and fish on the North
American Continent not domesticated such as bears, raccoons, squirrels,
alligators, and gila monsters; animals, fowl, reptiles, and fish from other
continents shall automatically be considered WILD.
      AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, including the area to be dedicated for street and
alley rights-of-way and public use.
      AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for streets and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
      AREA OF ZONING LOT. The total horizontal area (square footage) within the
property lines of a lot, excluding public streets and alleys, meeting the
district requirement of this chapter.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. An “assisted living establishment” or any other
place as defined by 210 ILCS 9/10.
      ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, having a common wall and/or a common
roof.
      AUDITORIUM. A room, hall, or building made a part of a church, theater,
school, recreation building, or other building designed for the gathering of
people as an audience, to hear lectures, plays, and other presentations.
      AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street,
used for the display or sale of new or used automobiles or trailers, and where
no repair work is done except for minor incidental repair of automobiles or
trailers to be displayed and sold on the premises.
      BARRIER. Any street, highway, river, pond, canal, railroad, levee,
embankment, screening by a fence of hedge, or similar obstruction.
      BASEMENT. A story having one-half or more of its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
      BILLBOARD. Any single- or double-faced sign displaying messages or
advertising not associated with the premises on which the sign is located or to
which it is affixed.
      BITUMINOUS CONCRETE. A mixture of petroleum by-products and gravel used
for paving to form a smooth, permanent surface. It does not mean oil and chip.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers,
or ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways, or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision unless the exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way), or
bounded by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-
of-way, waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
      BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the village.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals
are provided for compensation to three or more persons, but not more than ten
who are not members of the keeper’s family, but not open on a daily, overnight,
or per meal basis to transient guests.
      BUFFER STRIP. An area of land undeveloped except for landscaping fences
and the like, used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious
effects of the use on the adjacent lot.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum
setback requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
      BUILDING. Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed
or used to shelter persons or movable, personal property.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which the principal use
of the zoning lot is conducted.
      BUILDING OR STRUCTURE HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the
average grade at the front wall of a building to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, or gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot,
delineating the minimum open space required between the front of a structure
and the street right-of-way line.
      BULK. Any one or any combination of the following structural or site
design characteristics:
         (a)   Size or height of structure;
         (b)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot
lines, streets, or other structures;
         (c)   Lot area; and/or
         (d)   Yards or setbacks.
      CAMPING TRAILERS. Also referred to as TRAVEL TRAILERS as opposed to
manufactured home. Generally is designed for temporary occupancy as a vacation
dwelling, generally does not have self-contained sanitary facilities, can be
operated independently of utility connections, is limited in width to
approximately eight feet and in length to approximately 32 feet, and is
designed to be moved by motorized vehicle.
      CENTERLINE.
         (a)   The CENTERLINE of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
         (b)   The original CENTERLINE, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; or
         (c)   The new CENTERLINE whenever a road has been relocated.
      CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, FINAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that a lot or newly completed structure or use
compiles with all pertinent requirements of this chapter and therefore may be
occupied or used.
      CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, INITIAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating a proposed lot, structure, or use is in conformity
with the requirements of this chapter.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water. CHANNEL flow thus is that water which is flowing within the
limits of defined channel.
      CHURCH. A religious association providing worship services on a regular
schedule.
      CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm, and injured persons who are not provided with room or board nor
kept overnight on the premises.
      CLUB/LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests, not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
      COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
      COMMON AREA. Any area or space designed for joint use of tenants or
owners occupying a mobile home development or other development.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the
village for the coordinated physical development including, among other things,
plans and programs regarding the location, character, and extent of highways,
transportation routes, bridges, public buildings or uses, utilities, schools,
residential, commercial, or industrial land uses, parks, forests, dams,
drainage facilities, and projects affecting the conversation of natural
resources of the village.
      CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
      CONVENIENCE/GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building or premises or portion
thereof used for retail sales of gasoline, oil, and accessories of motor
vehicles, and general convenience service goods to include the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages, not for consumption on the premises where it is sold.
      CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER. A legally binding order issued by the
Administrator in accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect
compliance with this chapter.
      COVERAGE. Total square footage of ground floor area expressed as square
footage.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one end open for
vehicular traffic and the other permanently terminated by a turnaround for
vehicles.
      DAY CARE CENTER. An establishment for the part-time care and/or
instruction at any time of day of four or more unrelated children of pre-
elementary or elementary school age.
      DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Public Health unless otherwise
stated.
      DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and use of land for
easements, lots, and rights-of-way, including materials, alignment, grade, and
width of these elements.
      DETACHED. Surrounded by yards on the same lot as the building.
      DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefor.
      DIMENSIONS. Both lot depth and lot width.
      DISC, TELEVISION. A thin, flat, circular plate-type object that is placed
on private property or business property to be used to receive satellite
images. These can be placed either on a building or separate from building.
      DISTRICT ZONING. A portion of the territory of the village wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots, and uses under the terms of this chapter.
      DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or
parking area.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. An establishment principally used for the sale of
fast order food. FAST ORDER FOOD means food that is:
         (a)   Primarily intended for immediate consumption;
         (b)   Available after a short waiting time; and
         (c)   Packaged or presented in such a manner that it can be readily
eaten outside the premises where it is sold.
      DRY CLEANER, RETAIL. A limited processing dry cleaner primarily serving
individual public consumers.
      DRY CLEANER, WHOLESALE. A business primarily processing dry cleaning for
other businesses as opposed to individual public consumers.
      DUMP. A lot or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning, or other means and for whatever purpose,
or garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof, or waste material of any kind.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels, and
other accommodations for the transient public.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three
or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing one dwelling unit
and intended for the occupancy of one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by
one family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
      EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s real property for certain
limited purposes.
      ENCLOSED. Covered by a permanent roof and separated on all sides from
adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed exterior walls or by common
walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
      ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height, and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
      ERECT. Build, construct.
      ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. The erection,
construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or municipal
departments, or underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply, or
disposal system, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities or the furnishing of adequate service
by such public utilities or municipal departments or commissions or for the
public health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
         (a)   An institutional business, commercial, or industrial activity
that is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
         (b)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity
that occupies a portion of a building such that:
               1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the
other activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
               2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the
exterior of the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly
defined entryway that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
      EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation, on the effective date of
this chapter.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   A single individual doing his or her own cooking and living upon
the premises as a separate dwelling or housekeeping unit;
         (b)   A collective body of persons doing their own cooking and living
together upon the premises as a separate housekeeping unit in a domestic
relationship based upon birth, marriage, adoption, or employment as domestic
servants; or
         (c)   A group of not more than three unrelated persons doing their own
cooking and living together on the premises as a separate housekeeping unit
pursuant to a mutual housekeeping agreement (not including a group occupying a
boarding or rooming house, dub, fraternity, or hotel).
      FENCE, OPEN TYPE. A fence that is not a solid structure sealing off the
flow of air. It must be at least 50% open.
      FENCE, SOLID. A fence that blocks the flow of air, such as a concrete or
brick wall, or boards abutting each other including staggered boards on each
side of the fence frame, usually used for privacy.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material
is deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
humans to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
         (a)   The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
center of the common walls of attached buildings.
         (b)   GROSS FLOOR AREA includes basement floors; attic floor space;
halls, closets, and stairwells; space devoted to mechanical equipment; and
enclosed porches.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO. The ratio of total floor area, in square feet, of all
buildings on a lot to total lot area, in square feet, excluding basements.
      FREIGHT TERMINAL. As applied to motor carriers, subject to 625 ILCS 18c-
1101 et seq., a station for commercial motor vehicles wherein said motor trucks
are stored, repaired, or parked.
      FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot or
establishment.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building or portion thereof for the storage of one or
more motor vehicles for persons living on the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof used by the public for the
storage or parking of motor vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
      GREENHOUSE. See NURSERY.
      HEREAFTER. Any time after the effective date of this chapter.
      HILL. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession, or occupation conducted for
gain entirely within a dwelling or on residential premises in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
      HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof used for diagnosis, treatment,
and care of human aliments including sanitariums but not including clinics,
rest homes, convalescent homes, or nursing homes.
      HOTEL. A building designed or used for occupancy normally as the
temporary lodging place of individuals, having at least six guest rooms, where
a general kitchen or dining room may be provided but where there are no cooking
facilities in any guest rooms.
      IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work, and utilities
(including water, sewer, electric, gas, and stormwater) to be installed or
agreed to be installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or
private streets, easements, or other purposes as are necessary for the general
use of lot owners in the subdivision.
      IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
both in, or in conjunction with, the subdivision.
      INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
      JUNK YARD. A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon,
that is used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
disassembling, or handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials
include vehicles, machinery, and equipment not in operable condition (or parts
thereof), and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags, and rubber tires (a lot on
which one or more inoperable or abandoned vehicles are stored shall be deemed a
JUNK YARD). A JUNK YARD includes an automobile wrecking yard.
      KENNEL. Any structure or lot on which four or more domesticated animals
over four months of age are kept.
      LAUNDROMAT. A business that provides home type washing, drying, and
ironing machines for hire to be used by the customers on the premises.
      LAUNDRY, COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL. A business that provides washing,
drying, and ironing services operated by the employees on the premises.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley, or other appropriate means of access.
      LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether
immediate or future) of transfer of ownership or development. A LOT may or may
not coincide with a LOT OF RECORD.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut upon any street.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lines of a lot. Application of the minimum lot width and minimum lot depth
shall not be construed to satisfy minimum lot size.
      LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line abutting the street right-of-way.
      LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. (A
SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior
side lot line.)
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in accordance with state
law.
      LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT. Refers to the lot area, width, and depth
requirements of the applicable district.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to
the side lot lines (at the building line).
      MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises, or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep said structure in sound condition.
      MANUFACTURED OR MODULAR HOMES. Built and transported in sections or two
halves. A MODULAR DWELLING must have a yellow metal seal, shaped like the
state, mounted on the interior electrical panel. This will distinguish a
modular from a mobile home which has a two-inch by four-inch metal plate
mounted on the tail light (rear) end of the mobile home. MODULAR HOUSING is
similar in many ways to conventionally constructed housing, including
construction or a permanent foundation (see definition for permanent
foundation). MODULAR HOUSING as herein defined shall be considered as single-
family dwellings.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from place of its construction to the location or
subsequent location at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons. The term MOBILE HOME shall only include manufactured homes constructed
after June 30, 1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974. Compliance with this
standard is indicated by a two-inch by four-inch metal plate attached to the
exterior tail light end of the mobile home. Provided that any such structure
resting on a permanent foundation with wheels, tongue, and hitch permanently
removed shall not be construed as a MOBILE HOME, but shall be an IMMOBILIZED
MOBILE HOME. A MOBILE HOME should not be confused with a camping trailer or
recreational vehicle.
(210 ILCS 115/2.10)
      MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.3)
      MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE WIDE. Consists of two mobile home units joined at the
site into a single home, but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation to a site.
      MOBILE HOME, IMMOBILIZED. Any mobile home resting on a permanent
foundation with wheels, tongue, and hitch permanently removed. The Village
Board establishes the following criteria to complete the immobilization of a
mobile home.
         (a)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line
so as to attach and become a part of the real estate. Materials such as
concrete, mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the ground
below the frost line shall satisfy the requirement for a permanent foundation.
         (b)   As an alternative to division (a) above, piers may be used,
extending into the ground below the frost line and sufficient in number to
properly support the mobile home.
         (c)   To complete the immobilization, wheels, tongue, and hitch must
be removed. Axles may be removed.
      MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which has self-contained toilet
and bath or shower facilities.
(210 ILCS 115/2.4)
      MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and
the exclusive use of its occupants.
      MOBILE HOME MODULE. A factory fabricated building unit transported to a
building site, mounted on a permanent foundation supporting the outside
perimeter walls, and is designed for residential use.
      MOBILE HOME PAD. The part of an individual mobile home space or lot
beneath the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
      MOBILE HOME PARK.
         (a)   A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land upon
which contain sites with the necessary utilities for two or more independent
mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such MOBILE HOME PARK.
         (b)   Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not
preclude the tracts of land from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they
are maintained and operated jointly. Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a
motorized recreational vehicle shall be construed as being part of a MOBILE
HOME PARK.
(210 ILCS 115/2.5)
      MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display, sale, and
repair of new or used mobile homes.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use
or occupancy of one mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home space beneath the mobile
home that includes the concrete slab on which the home is placed and to which
it is anchored.
      MOBILE HOUSING UNIT. Includes all forms of housing unlisted in this
section and as regulated in this chapter.
      MOBILE OR PORTABLE MARQUEE. A term used to describe any sign designed to
be moved from place to place, including, but not limited to, signs attached to
wood or metal frames designed to be self-supporting and movable; or paper,
cardboard, or canvas signs wrapped around supporting poles.
      MOTEL OR MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached, or detached
sleeping or living units for the accommodation of transient guests and not
customarily including individual cooking or kitchen facilities; said units
having convenient access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guests or occupants.
      NOISOME AND IN FURIOUS SUBSTANCES, CONDITIONS, AND OPERATIONS.
         (a)   Creation of unreasonable physical hazard by fire, explosion,
radiation, or other cause to persons or property.
         (b)   Discharge of any liquid or solid waste into any stream or body
of water or into any public or private disposal system or into the ground so as
to contaminate any watersupply including underground water supply.
         (c)   Maintenance of storage of any material either indoors or
outdoors so as to cause or to facilitate the breeding of vermin.
         (d)   Emission of smoke, measure at the point of emission, which
constitutes an unreasonable hazard to the health, safety, or welfare of any
persons.
         (e)   Fly ash or dust which can cause damage to the health of persons,
animals, or plant life or to other forms of property, or excessive soil,
measured at or beyond the property line of the premises on which the aforesaid
fly ash or dust is created or caused.
         (f)   Creation or causation of any unreasonably offensive odors
discernible at or beyond any property line of the premises on which the
aforesaid odor is created or caused.
         (g)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonable reflection or direct
glare, by any process, lighting, or reflection material at or beyond any
property line of the premises on which the aforesaid reflection or direct glare
is created or caused.
         (h)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonably distracting or
objectionable vibration and/or electrical disturbances discernible at or beyond
any property line of the premises on which the aforesaid vibration or
electrical disturbance is created or maintained.
      NON-CONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure, or use lawfully existing
on the effective date of this chapter, but not in compliance with the
applicable provisions thereof.
      NUISANCE. Any thing, condition, or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use of property, or
essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property. (See
Chapter 90.)
      NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs, and other plants are
raised for transplanting and/or sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
      NURSERY SCHOOL or DAY CARE CENTER. An establishment for the part-time
care and/or instruction (at any time of day) of four or more unrelated children
of pre-elementary or elementary school age.
      NURSING OR RETIREMENT HOME. A building used as a medical care facility
for persons who need nursing care and medical services, but do not require
intensive hospital care.
      OFFICE. Any building, or portion thereof, in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
      OFFICIAL MAP. The portion of the master plan which designates land
necessary for public facilities or uses. It shall include streets, alleys,
public ways, parks, playgrounds, school sites, and other public grounds and
ways for public service facilities within the whole area included within the
official comprehensive plan. It can be one or more separate geographical or
functional parts or include all or any part of the contiguous, unincorporated
area under the planning jurisdiction of the village.
      OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district superimposed over one or more
standard (primary) zoning districts or portions thereof for the purpose of
controlling developmental problems caused by such factors as steep slopes, wet
soils, flooding, and the like.
      PARKING AREA/LOT OFF-STREET. Land that is improved in accordance with
this chapter and used primarily for the storage of passenger motor vehicles,
free of charge or for compensation. An OFF-STREET PARKING LOT, depending on the
circumstances of its use, may be either a principal use or an accessory use.
      PARKING LOT. Land that is improved in accordance with this chapter and
shall be limited to automobiles and trucks one ton and under.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area at least 20 feet long and ten feet
wide within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
      PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
(210 ILCS 115/2.2)
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization, or corporate
body.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. A residential or commercial development on a
parcel of land in single ownership and consisting of two or more buildings
having any yard, court, parking, or loading space in common.
      PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross-sections, profiles,
working details, and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent, and details of improvements required in
this chapter and which plans shall conform to any requirements of the Planning
Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the appropriate officials
of the village for consideration, approval, or disapproval.
      PLAT. Any map, plan, or chart of a city, town, section, or subdivision,
indicating the location and boundaries of individual properties, public
improvements, or utility locations, and which meets the requirements of this
chapter.
      PLAT, FINAL. A plat drawn in ink upon tracing cloth and conforming to the
requirements of this chapter.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The first plat prepared designating generally the
methods, dimensions, and conditions of land subdivision and the improvements
proposed on a specific parcel of land.
      PLOT OR SITE. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions
thereof which is described by reference to a recorded plat or metes and bounds.
      PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the
main use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate)
structure or use.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. An office (other than a service office and other
than an office for care and/or treatment of or medical attention to, animals as
distinguished from persons) for the practice of professions, such as the
offices of physicians, dentists, attorneys at law, architects, or engineers
qualified to perform services of a professional nature, or the offices of a
governmental agency; and where there is no storage, sale, or display of
merchandise on the premises.
      PROPERTY LINE. See LOT LINE.
      PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Any building owned, operated, constructed, or
maintained at the expense of the public or a building which provides a service
or function necessary for the general health, welfare, and convenience of the
public.
      PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including, but not
limited to, the following: Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches,
waterways, parkways, and streets.
      PUBLIC UTILITIES. Utilities which are either government-owned or owned by
an established firm serving a wide geographical area and/or a substantial
number of persons.
      QUICK SHOP. Any small retail commercial or service establishment offering
goods/services primarily to the residents of a particular multiple-family
complex, mobile home park, or similar development. No liquor or gasoline shall
be sold in this shop.
      RECONSTRUCT. As applied to non-conforming structures, to rebuild after
damage or destruction.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A term encompassing any type of vehicle used
primarily for pleasure, such as travel trailers, motor homes, boats,
snowmobiles, and the like.
      REFUSE. Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
      RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
      REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
      RESIDENCE. A stationary detached principal building designed for or used
as a dwelling as distinguished from a mobile (dwelling) home. A mobile home
with the wheels and tongue removed and placed on a permanent foundation shall
be deemed a STATIONARY RESIDENCE.
      RESTAURANT. A building where the principal business is serving food.
      RESTRICTIVE. Tending to keep within prescribed limits.
      RETAIL. The sale of goods and services directly to the consumer rather
than to another business.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the village or to another unit of government for streets and
alleys.
      ROAD, COUNTY. A tract of land which is used primarily for the purpose of
vehicular movement and includes all of the facilities and improvements within
the right-of-way.
      ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, and curbs and gutter which lies between the right-
of-way lines.
      ROOF LINE. A horizontal line parallel to the average ground level of a
building along the front thereof, which line delineates the highest point of a
flat roof; or where the flat surface area of a gable, hip, mansard, or gambrel
roof is in view from the ground level, the line of demarcation between the flat
surface and the vertically structured facade; or the line along the front of a
building delineating the roof line between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
      ROOM. An unsubdivided portion of the interior of a dwelling unit,
excluding bathrooms, kitchens, closets, hallways and service porches, and the
like.
      SCREENING. Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences, and the like used as a
means of view and noise control.
      SEMI-FINISHED MATERIALS. Materials which have been sufficiently processed
at heavy industrial facilities so that they are no longer in their raw state,
but are readily usable by light industry for assembly or manufacture into
consumer goods.
      SERVICE BUILDING. A structure within a mobile home park or travel trailer
park that contains toilet facilities, clothes washers, and dryers and in some
instances, a convenience store.
      SERVICE STATION. A building and premises or portion thereof designed and
used for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil, and
automotive parts, supplies, and accessories. A SERVICE STATION may include
facilities for washing vehicles and for making minor automotive repairs.
      SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment where service are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
      SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the lot line in question to the
side of the structure facing that lot line or to the edge of the area of
operation of the principal use (in the case of a use which does not involve a
structure).
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT, PRIVATE. Any properly constructed disposal system
intended for the treatment of wastewaters from more than one residence and/or
building unit.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display, or structure or part thereof used to
advertise, identify, display, or attract attention to a person, establishment,
product, service, or event by any means including words, letters, figures,
designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illuminations, and the like. The term SIGN
includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign, freestanding sign,
awning, canopy, marquee sign; changeable copy sign, illuminated sign; moving
sign, temporary sign; portable sign; or other display whether affixed to a
building or erected elsewhere on the premises. The term SIGN excludes features
of a building which are an integral part of the building’s design (for example,
the “castle-look” of a White Castle restaurant).
      SIGN, CANOPY/MARQUEE. Any sign affixed to, painted on, or suspended from
an awning, canopy, marquee, or similar overhang.
      SIGN, FLUSH-MOUNTED. Any sign attached to or erected against a wall of a
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately parallel
to the plane of the wall and not projecting more than 18 inches. A FLUSH-
MOUNTED SIGN displays only messages associated with the building to which said
sign is attached.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. Any sign supported by one or more uprights, poles, or
braces placed in or upon the ground; or any sign supported by any structure
erected primarily for the display and support of the sign; provided that a
FREESTANDING SIGN displays only messages associated with the property on which
said sign is located.
      SIGN IDENTITY. Any sign which carries only the name of the firm, person,
the major enterprise or the principal product offered for sale on the premises,
or a combination of these.
      SIGN, PROTECTING. Any sign which is suspended from or supported by a
wall, awning, canopy, marquee, and the like, and which is approximately
perpendicular thereto. A PROJECTING SIGN displays only messages associated with
the property on which it is located.
      SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the message and the background thereof,
calculated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE. The maximum total sign area of all signs that an
establishment is permitted to display.
      SKIRTING. The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
      SLOPE. The degree of natural inclination of the existing ground.
      SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical, or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter to regulate development of a special use.
      STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used by the Administrator
to halt work in progress that is in violation of this chapter.
      STORAGE FACILITY. A structure containing separate storage spaces of
varying sizes leased or rented on an individual basis commonly consistently of
30 to 400 square feet units with access to paved driveway and commonly used to
store inactive business records, household goods, and vehicles Including
recreational vehicles.
      STREET.
         (a)   A public or private way for motor vehicle travel.
         (b)   The term STREET includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
through way, road, pike, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and
similar designations, but excludes an alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to the municipality or other public entry.
      STRINGENT. Binding and/or exacting.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES,
but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate, or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing
to divide land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision as herein defined.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental, or building development or
use(s) other than agricultural use or production.
         (b)   Establishment of dedication of a public street or alley through
a tract of land regardless of size.
         (c)   Excluded from this definition is the division of land into
parcels each containing five acres or more for agricultural purposes, and the
division of land for cemetery usage, division, and distribution of land
pursuant to law or court order. The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all re-
subdivision of land or lot.
      SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS. As defined by “Division X -
Superintendent of Public Works” Ordinance No. 1-2-98 et seq.
      TAVERN OR LOUNGE. A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the
premises, but not including restaurants where the principal business is serving
food.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any structure or structures used for the
receiving and/or dispersal of radio, television, microwave, cellular telephone,
paging, enhanced specialized mobile radio, personal communications services,
and similar technologies.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
      TOWER. An exceptionally tall building or superstructure that is used for
either residential or business related purposes. An exceptionally tall
structure that is used to place equipment in the transmission of images or
sound.
      TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any park, court, camp, or site of land designed,
maintained, or intended for the purpose of providing a temporary location or
accommodations for any travel trailers or similar devices upon which any travel
trailers or similar devices are parked or located, including all buildings used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment or accessories thereof, whether
or not the same or any part is held or operated for gain, excepting, however,
automobile or travel trailer sales lots on which unoccupied units are parked
for inspection and sale.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
      USE VARIANCE. A type of amendment (not a variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
chapter.
      UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant, and the like.
      VACANT. No structure is situated thereon.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size,
setbacks, or other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or
structure.
      VEHICLE. A receptacle in which something is placed in order to be moved
by some means of conveyance on wheels, runners, or similar methods.
      VILLAGE. Either the territory or the local government of the Village of
Livingston, Illinois.
      WHOLESALE. Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to
another business.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign visible from the exterior of a building or
structure which is painted directly on the surface of a window or affixed to or
suspended immediately behind the window for the purpose of informing passersby
of the identity of the proprietor or business, or of the product or service
which can be obtained on the premises.
      YARD. Open space that is unobstructed, except as specifically permitted
in this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot
line, and the building line.
      YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines,
and the rear yard line.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line, and side lot line.
      YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is generally parallel to the lot line
along which the yard in question extends and which is not nearer to such lot
line at any point than the required depth or width of said yard.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. Also called a Zoning Official or Zoning Officer,
the Zoning Administrator of the village or his or her authorized
representative.
      ZONING MAP. The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts, and incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 40-2-2)
§ 156.009 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement the regulatory scheme of this chapter so as to achieve
the objectives enumerated in §
156.002, the entire village is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts:
District Designation Minimum Area*
District                        Designation Minimum Area*
Agricultural                    A-1         3 Acres
Community Business              B-1         1 Acre
Highway Business                B-2         2 Acres
Industrial                      I-1         5 Acres
Multiple-Family Residence       MR-1        3 Acres
Single-Family Residence (Large) SR-1        5 Acres
Single-Family Residence (Small) SR-2        3 Acres
Notes to Table:
* The “minimum area” requirement (which is intended to prevent spot zoning)
refers to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can properly be
given the particular district classification. The minimum area requirement is
not satisfied merely because the acreage of numerous noncontiguous parcels when
aggregated happens to equal or exceed the minimum area indicated above.
 
(Prior Code, § 40-3-1)
§ 156.010 ZONING MAP, DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Map adopted. The boundaries of the various zoning districts are hereby
fixed and established as shown on the zoning map attached hereto and made a
part hereof. The zoning map is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk. The
map is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if the matters and
information set forth by said map were fully described herein.
   (B)   Changes to map.
      (1)   Compliance with provisions; unauthorized changes. No changes or
amendments to the official zoning map shall be initiated, except in compliance
and conformity with all procedures and requirements of this chapter. It shall
be unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized change to the official
zoning map.
      (2)   Time for publication. In accordance with state law, if any changes
are made in the zoning districts or regulations during a calendar year, the
Village Clerk shall publish the official zoning map of the village not later
than March 31 of the following year.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-2) (Ord. 2025-1, passed 1-23-2025) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.011 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, if any changes are made in the zoning
districts or regulations during a calendar year, the Zoning Administrator shall
publish the revised official zoning map of the village not later than March 31
of the following year.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-19)
   (B)   The map shall be published if there are any annexations.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-3)
§ 156.012 DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the various districts as shown on the zoning map shall be
determined by the boundaries as shown and outlined thereon and when not clearly
so determined, by use of the scale shown on said map unless actual dimensions
are noted. Scale and field measurements and map dimensions shall be figured
from the centerline of streets, highways, alleys, and railroad rights-of-way as
appropriate. Where uncertainty exists as to the exact location of said
boundaries, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Centerline as boundary. Where district boundaries lie on or within
streets, highways, road rights-of-ways or railroad rights-of-way, the district
boundaries shall be the centerline of the same.
   (B)   Boundaries which bisect blocks. Where district boundary lines
approximately bisect blocks, the boundaries shall be the median lines of such
blocks between the centerline of boundary streets.
   (C)   Boundaries dividing parcels of land. In subdivided property or where a
district boundary divides a subdivided lot, the location of such boundary,
unless the same is indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by the use of a
scale appearing on the district map. Where a district boundary divides a plated
lot, the zone classification of the greater portion shall prevail throughout
the lot.
   (D)   Uncertainty settled by Board of Zoning Appeals. In case any further
uncertainty exists, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall interpret the intent of
the zoning map as to the location of such boundaries.
   (E)   Street and right-of-way abandonments. Where a public road, street,
alley, or other right- of-way is officially vacated or abandoned, the
regulations applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply.
   (G)   Excluded areas. Unless areas are classified on or by the official
zoning map of the village or the appropriate classification can be established
by the rules above, such areas shall be considered to be classified as A-
1 Agricultural District, until such time as the land is rezoned by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-4) (Ord. 2025-1, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 156.013 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any territory hereafter annexed to the village shall automatically be zoned
as SR-1, Single-Family Residential District, until duly changed by an amendment
to this chapter except under the following conditions.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees, with the recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, may annex any territory as any other zoning district or
districts herein established if all legal requirements for zoning the property
at the time of the annexation are recorded.
   (B)   Any existing agricultural area within the county of five acres or more
may be annexed to the village as agricultural without a public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-5) (Ord. 2025-1, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 156.014 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Hereafter, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to do the following within the village:
   (A)   Erect, use, occupy, enlarge, alter, relocate, or reconstruct any
structure or part thereof;
   (B)   To create any lot; or
   (C)   To use, occupy, or develop any lot or part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-6) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.015 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as “permitted” or
“special” within a particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed
prohibited in that district. However, if the Village Board, following
consultation with the Zoning Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals
finds that the unlisted use is similar to and compatible with the listed uses,
they may allow such use by ordinance.
   (B)   The decision of the Village Board shall become a permanent public
record, and any unlisted use that it approves shall thereafter have the same
status as listed uses.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-7)
§ 156.016 ONE BUILDING, ALL YARDS ON ONE LOT.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise:
   (A)   Only one principal building or structure shall be permitted on any
residential lot; and
   (B)   No portion of any minimum area, minimum dimensions, or minimum yards
required for any lot, structure, or use shall be counted to satisfy the minimum
area, dimensions, or yards requirements for any other lot, structure, or use.
(See §
156.271(A).)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-8)
§ 156.017 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to a public street or private street.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-9) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.018 FRONT SETBACKS; CORNER, THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on
every side having frontage. (See §
156.412.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-10)
§ 156.019 FRONT SETBACKS; CERTAIN BUILT-UP AREAS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in the B-1 Community Business
District and in all residential zoning districts where lots having 50% or more
of the frontage on one side of a street between intersections (that is, in one
block) are developed with buildings, and the front setbacks of those lots do
not differ by more than ten feet, the minimum required front setback on that
block shall be the average of the existing front set-backs, but no less than
five feet, provided however, that in any built-up area, no front setback shall
be greater than 50 feet shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-11)
§ 156.020 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without thereby violating the minimum setback
requirements:
 
Features                                               Maximum Intrusions
Balconies and decks                                    Four feet
Canopies, roof overhangs                               Four feet
Cornices, chimneys, planters, or similar architectural Two feet
features
Fire escapes                                           Four feet
Patios uncovered at ground level                       One foot
Sidewalks                                              One foot
 
(Prior Code, § 40-3-12)
§ 156.021 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls,
cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas, or other necessary
appurtenances commonly constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to
exceed the maximum height limitations for the district in which they are
located if they comply with all other pertinent ordinances of the village.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by intersecting street lines and a line joining these street lines at
points 30 feet from the point of intersection, no obstruction, whether natural
or human-made, shall intrude into the air space that is between two feet and
ten feet above the level of the adjacent street. (See § 156.411.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-13)
§ 156.022 SEWERS; SEPTIC TANKS.
   In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people
live, work, or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage
in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Whenever the public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible
(that is, when the distance from the property line of the property in question
to the nearest public sewer with available capacity does not exceed 100 feet),
all sewage shall be discharged into such system whether or not a private
sewerage system already exists or is more convenient.
   (B)   Whenever the public sanitary sewerage system is not reasonably
accessible, a private sewerage system shall be installed and used. All private
sewerage systems shall be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the following requirements:
      (1)   State Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/1 through
225/23, as amended from time to time;
      (2)   State Private Sewage Disposal Code No. 4.002, promulgated by the
Director of the State Department of Public Health, as amended from time to
time;
      (3)   Pertinent, current regulations issued by the State Environmental
Protection Agency; and
      (4)   Applicable codes and regulations of the village, particularly the
Subdivision Code. (See
Chapter 155.)
   (C)   The Administrator shall not issue any certificate of zoning compliance
unless, following consultation with the Superintendent of Public Works, he or
she is satisfied that these requirements will be met. (See
Chapter 52.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-14)
§ 156.023 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning
district if such use:
         (a)   Meets the definitions of “accessory use” found in §
156.008(B);
         (b)   Is accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in
a particular zoning district as a permitted or special use; and
         (c)   Is in compliance with restrictions set forth in division (B)
below.
      (2)   If an accessory structure is attached to a principal structure, it
shall be considered part of such structure. (See the definition of “attached”in
§
156.008(B).)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-15)
   (B)   Restrictions; agricultural and residential districts.
      (1)   Height. No accessory use shall be higher than 25 feet in any zoning
district; provided, there shall be no height limit on accessory structures
related to agriculture.
      (2)   Setbacks. No accessory use in any zoning district shall be located
in any part of any yard (front, side, or rear) that is required because of the
setback regulations of such district; provided that in the Agricultural
District or in any Residential District, an accessory use may be located as
close as five feet to any side or five feet to any rear lot line, or five feet
from the principal building.
      (3)   Yard coverage. Accessory uses shall not cover more than 30% of a
required rear yard.
      (4)   Use as dwelling. Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the village.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-16)
   (C)   Restrictions; industrial and business districts.
      (1)   Height. No accessory use shall be higher than 25 feet in any
Industrial or Business District.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   No accessory use in any Industrial and Business District shall
be located in any part of any yard (front, side, or rear) that is required
because of the setback regulations of such district.
         (b)   An accessory use must be located a minimum distance of 12 feet
from the principal building.
         (c)   An accessory use must be located a minimum distance of 25 feet
from a side lot line adjacent to a street except in the Business District where
none is required.
         (d)   An accessory use must be located a minimum of 20 feet from the
rear lot line except when a buffer or planting screen is required additional
footage shall be required to allow at least a 12-foot lane for rear access.
      (3)   Yard coverage. Accessory uses shall not cover more than 50% of a
required rear yard.
      (4)   Use as dwelling. Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the village.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-17)
§ 156.024 AREA-BULK REGULATIONS.
   To facilitate public understanding of this chapter, the area-bulk regulation
schedule is hereby adopted and declared to be an integral part of this chapter
and it may be amended in the same manner as any other part of this chapter. The
schedule is found at §
156.410.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-18)
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
§ 156.035 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DEFINED.
   As used in this subchapter, the term PLANNED DEVELOPMENT or PD means a
development wherein, in accordance with an approved development plan:
   (A)   Common open space is reserved;
   (B)   Various housing types and other structures and uses may be mixed; and/
or
   (C)   Overall average density does not exceed the usual zoning district
limit.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-20)
§ 156.036 OBJECTIVES.
   This section authorizes development of Planned Developments and establishes
procedures in order to achieve the objectives enumerated in §
156.002 and the following additional objectives:
   (A)   To provide a regulatory mechanism whereby the village can be assured
that, upon completion, approved development projects will substantially conform
to the plans or models which constituted the basis for the issuance of the
necessary zoning and subdivision permits;
   (B)   To permit development of a wide variety of housing types and other
structures and uses in a single comprehensively-planned project;
   (C)   To preserve the natural topography, scenic features, mature trees, and
historic structures existing on sites proposed for development;
   (D)   To encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment of different housing types and other structures;
   (E)   To ensure the provision of usable, common, open space in planned
developments, and to spur installation of various amenities therein; and
   (F)   To facilitate the economical installation of standard streets, sewers,
utilities, and other improvements.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-21)
§ 156.037 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS GENERALLY REQUIRED.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, planned
developments, including all structures and uses therein, shall, at a minimum,
be built in conformity with all applicable codes and ordinances, including the
Zoning Code.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-22)
§ 156.038 DISTRICTS WHERE ALLOWED.
   Planned Developments may be built in any zoning district, but only upon the
issuance of a special use permit by the Zoning Board of Appeals. (See §
156.372.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-23)
§ 156.039 PERMISSIBLE DEVIATION FROM CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The Planned Development concept is intended to afford both the developer and
the village considerable flexibility in formulating development proposals.
Consequently, to the extent indicated In this section, Planned Developments may
deviate from generally applicable code requirements without a variance. Any
proposed deviation not listed below, however, shall require a variance.
   (A)   Mixed uses. Planned Developments may include all types of residential
structures and any other uses approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals, provided
that in approving such mixed uses, the Zoning Board of Appeals may attach any
conditions necessary to protect the public welfare.
   (B)   Lot and structure requirements. In Planned Developments, the Zoning
Board of Appeals may approve any reasonable deviation from the lot and
structure requirements of the particular zoning district so long as the
different uses within the PD are appropriately interrelated and property
abutting the PD is adequately protected from any potential adverse impacts of
the development. LOT AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS means minimum individual lot
area, width, and depth; minimum setbacks; and maximum structure height.
   (C)   Accessory uses. In PDs, the Zoning Board of Appeals may allow the
developer to disregard the usual restrictions on accessory uses other than the
prohibition against using an accessory structure as a dwelling.
   (D)   Location of parking/loading spaces. By permission of the Zoning Board
of Appeals, off-street parking and loading spaces in PDs need not be located in
accordance with generally applicable requirements. The minimum number of such
spaces, however, shall not be less than the number required as per §§
156.190 through
156.202.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-24)
§ 156.040 PROCEDURES FOR PLANNING DEVELOPMENTS.
   Every applicant for Planned Development approval shall comply with the
procedural requirements of this section. The required procedures are as
follows:
   (A)   Filing development plan with the Zoning Administrator;
   (B)   Review of plans by the Plan Commission;
   (C)   Provision by the developer of adequate assurance for the completion of
required improvements as per the development plan and subdivision regulations;
   (D)   Recommendation by the Plan Commission, if any;
   (E)   Public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals as per the requirements
of §§
156.315 through
156.323;
   (F)   Decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals regarding approval/rejection
of the development plan;
   (G)   Recording of development plan with the County Recorder of Deeds; and
   (H)   Approval of the Village Board (if necessary).
(Prior Code, § 40-3-25)
§ 156.041 APPLICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Every applicant for approval of a development plan shall submit to the
Administrator in narrative and/or graphic form the items of information listed
below in §
156.042.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-26)
§ 156.042 CRITERIA CONSIDERED.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall compile a written report which either
accepts or rejects the Development Plan. In making their recommendation, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the following criteria:
   (A)   The extent to which the proposed development is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan and with the purposes of this chapter and of all other
applicable codes and ordinances;
   (B)   The extent to which the proposed development deviates from the
regulations that are generally applicable to the property (including, but not
limited to, the use, lot, and building regulations of the district), and the
apparent merits, if any, of said deviations;
   (C)   Whether the proposed design of the PD makes adequate provisions for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, off-street parking and loading,
separation of residential and commercial uses, open space, recreational
facilities, preservation of natural features, and so forth;
   (D)   The compatibility of the proposed PD with adjacent properties and
surrounding areas; and
   (E)   Any other reasonable criteria that the Zoning Board of Appeals may
devise.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-27)
§ 156.043 DECISION BY ZONING BOARD.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall either approve or disapprove each and
every Development Plan. However, the Zoning Board shall not recommend any PD
unless:
   (A)   The developer has posted a performance bond or deposited funds in
escrow in the amount of the Village Engineer deems sufficient to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements;
   (B)   The Village Attorney has stated that all legal instruments
(particularly the restrictive covenants) are satisfactory; and
   (C)   The proposed PD, as evidenced by the Development Plan, complies with
all applicable codes, regulations, and ordinances. (Deviations to the extent
permitted under § 156.042 shall not be deemed as non-complying.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-28)
§ 156.044 CHANGES IN APPROVED PLANS.
   No changes shall be made to any approved PD Development Plan, except as
follows:
   (A)   Minor changes, if required by engineering or, other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the final development plan was approved;
   (B)   All other changes shall require a public hearing before the Zoning
Board of Appeals; and
   (C)   No approved change shall have any effect until it is recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds as an amendment to the recorded copy of the
Development Plan. (See §§ 156.390 through 156.396.)
(Prior Code, § 40-3-29)
§ 156.045 FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If a substantial amount of construction has not begun within the time
stated in the approved construction schedule, the Development Plan shall lapse
upon written notice to the applicant from the Zoning Administrator and shall be
of no further effect.
   (B)   However, in his or her discretion and for good cause, the Zoning
Administrator may extend for a reasonable time the period for the beginning of
construction.
   (C)   If a final Development Plan lapses as per this section, the following
shall be applicable:
      (1)   The special use permit shall be automatically revoked;
      (2)   Any zoning permits shall automatically become null and void; and
      (3)   All regulations applicable before the PD was approved shall
automatically be in full effect.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-30)
§ 156.046 MUNICIPAL EXEMPTION.
   In conjunction with any existing or proposed development, the village shall
be exempt from all of the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 40-3-31)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 156.060 GENERALLY.
   The A-1 Agricultural District encompasses areas that are presently
undeveloped or sparsely developed and that, for various reasons, should remain
so for the foreseeable future. Some tracts of land in this District are fertile
and relatively level and best suited for agricultural pursuits other tracts in
this District have such poor soils, steep slopes, inadequate natural drainage,
and/or other problems, or are simply so distant from existing developed areas
that the provision and maintenance of roads, utilities, and stormwater drainage
systems would be impractical or burdensomely expensive to the tax-paying
public.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-1)
§ 156.061 ONE DWELLING ON ONE LOT.
   In the A-1 District, only one dwelling shall be situated on any one lot.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-2)
§ 156.062 LOT, BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the A-1 District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: three acres;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 200 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 50 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 25 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: ten feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 50 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height (does not apply to accessory agricultural
structures): 35 feet; and
   (F)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: 65 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 78 feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: 90 feet;
      (4)   County highways: 80 feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: 90 feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-3)
§ 156.063 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the A-1 Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified as such, provided
the requirements of §
156.246 are met;
   (B)   Cemeteries and mausoleums in conjunction therewith;
   (C)   Nurseries, greenhouses, temporary produce stands;
   (D)   Single-family dwellings, including manufactured or modular homes;
   (E)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including classification
yards, terminal facilities, or maintenance facilities;
   (F)   Schools or colleges for academic instruction; and
   (G)   Fishing lake or pond provided that no building, parking lot, or other
intense use activity is located nearer than 500 feet to any dwelling on another
zoning lot. Any fishing lake or pond must also be a minimum of 500 feet from
any dwelling on an adjacent zoning lot that does not have use privileges to the
lake or pond.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-4)
§ 156.064 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with
§§
156.370 through
156.375 in the A-1 Agricultural District:
   (A)   Agricultural related uses;
   (B)   Agricultural implement sale;
   (C)   Amusement facilities, such as go-cart tracks, miniature golf courses,
and the like;
   (D)   Animal hospitals;
   (E)   Any dwelling unit less than 750 feet;
   (F)   Assisted living facility;
   (G)   Churches and other places of formal worship;
   (H)   Clubs or lodges (private), but not those which have as their chief
activity a service customarily carried on as a business;
   (I)   Explosive uses of any kind;
   (J)   Golf courses, regulation size;
   (K)   Governmental facilities and uses other than for the village;
   (L)   Home occupations;
   (M)   Hospitals and clinics;
   (N)   Kennels, commercial;
   (O)   Marina and boat dock;
   (P)   Nursing homes, sanitariums;
   (Q)   Parking lots;
   (R)   Pole building;
   (S)   Radio, citizens band, or television transmission towers;
   (T)   Riding stables;
   (U)   Sale barn;
   (V)   Storage facility;
   (W)   Telecommunications facility not to exceed 200 feet;
   (X)   Travel trailer parks; and
   (Y)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-5)
§ 156.065 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the A-
1 Agricultural District:
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract or land;
   (B)   Boats, storage of pleasure boats (limit three);
   (C)   Camping trailer (the storage of not more than one unoccupied camp
trailer);
   (D)   Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings for sale or
rental offices or show houses for use during construction operations. Provided
all other regulations of the district are compiled with, but in no case shall
such office be continued beyond the duration of construction of the project or
one year, whichever is greater. However, such time limit may be extended for
one year by the Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (E)   Keeping of horses for private purposes only, and not for rent or hire
on a zoning lot whose principal use is intended to be a one-family dwelling,
provided that at least one acre is allowed for each animal and provided further
that all buildings for housing such animals shall be subject to all
requirements for accessory buildings in the A-1 District, and that such
buildings are located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing principal
building on an adjacent lot or 50 feet from the nearest side lot line,
whichever is greater;
   (F)   Keeping of household pets, provided kennels are not maintained, and
provided no animal, reptile, bird, or similar classification or species
normally considered wild, as opposed to domesticated, is maintained or kept;
   (G)   Private greenhouses, tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts,
and patios;
   (H)   Private swimming pool;
   (I)   Servants accommodations for professional servants, caretakers,
watchmen, or custodians but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on
the same lot; and
   (J)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (B).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-6)
SR-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 156.080 GENERALLY.
   In the SR-1 Single-Family Residence District, land is principally used for
or is best suited for detached, single-family dwellings and related
educational, religious and recreational facilities. The regulations for this
district are Intended to stabilize and preserve sound existing single-family
neighborhoods, and to promote the development of subdivisions offering a range
of new conventionally constructed single-family housing. Other types of
residences (mobile homes, immobilized mobile homes, duplexes, apartments, and
the like) are strictly prohibited In this district except as permitted by
Chapter 154, adopted March 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-7) (Ord. 97-2, passed - -)
§ 156.081 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   In the SR-1 District, only one principal building shall be situated on any
one lot.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-8)
§ 156.082 LOT, BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the SR-1 District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 7,500 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 80 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 18 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: eight feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit: two spaces;
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 25%; and
   (H)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: zero feet;
      (2)   Collector street: 57 feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: 75 feet;
      (4)   County highways: 70 feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-9)
§ 156.083 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the SR-1 Single-Family Residential
District:
   (A)   Agriculture, including all uses commonly classified as such, provided
the requirements of §
156.191 are met;
   (B)   Single-family dwellings;
   (C)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (B);
   (D)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (E)   Community center;
   (F)   Schools;
   (G)   Governmental uses, including buildings and facilities of the village;
and
   (H)   Public libraries, museums, playgrounds, parks, or recreational or
community centers or grounds.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-10)
§ 156.084 SPECIAL USES.
   The following special uses may be allowed by a special use permit in
accordance with §§
156.370 through
156.375 in the SR-1 District:
   (A)   Citizens band tower not to exceed 30 feet;
   (B)   Day care or nursery school;
   (C)   Governmental uses, including buildings and facilities of the village;
   (D)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
156.248;
   (E)   Hospitals and medical clinics;
   (F)   Mobile home parks;
   (G)   Modular or manufactured homes (see §
156.008(B));
   (H)   Non-residential private parking lots;
   (I)   Private greenhouse;
   (J)   Public, private, or parochial schools offering courses of
instructional elementary and secondary levels in accordance with standards for
compulsory education;
   (K)   Two-family and multiple-family dwelling; and
   (L)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-11)
§ 156.085 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the SR-
1 Single-Family District:
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract or land;
   (B)   Boats, storage of pleasure boats (limit three);
   (C)   Camping trailer (the storage of not more than one unoccupied camp
trailer); and
   (D)   (1)   Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings for sale or
rental offices or show houses for use during construction operations.
      (2)   Provided all other regulations of the district are complied with
but in no case shall such office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year, whichever is greater.
      (3)   However, such time limit may be extended for one year by the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Keeping of household pets, provided kennels are not maintained, and
provided no animal, reptile, bird, or similar classification or species
normally considered wild, as opposed to domesticated, is maintained or kept;
   (F)   Private greenhouses, tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts,
and patios;
   (G)   Private swimming pool; and
   (H)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (B).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-12)
SR-2 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 156.100 GENERALLY.
   The SR-2 Single-Family Residence District encompasses areas suitable for
single-family dwellings as well as related educational, religious, and
recreational facilities. The regulations for this District are intended to
stabilize and preserve sound existing subdivisions offering a range of new
single-family housing. Other types of residences (mobile homes, immobilized
mobile homes, duplexes, apartments, and the like) are strictly prohibited in
this District except as permitted by
Chapter 154, adopted March 1, 1997.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-16) (Ord. 97-2, passed - -)
§ 156.101 SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The provisions of §
156.081 shall be controlling in this District.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-17)
§ 156.102 LOT, BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the SR-2 District shall conform to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 50 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 80 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   For both side yard lines: 15 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: five feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 25 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit: two spaces;
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 25%; and
   (H)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: 50 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 57 feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: 75 feet;
      (4)   County highways: 65 feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-18)
§ 156.103 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the SR-2 Single-Family Residential
District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the SR-1 District (see §
156.083); and
   (B)   Modular or manufactured homes.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-19)
§ 156.104 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the SR-2 District by special use permit
in accordance with §§
156.370 through
156.375, to-wit:
   (A)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (B)   Day care and nurseries;
   (C)   Governmental uses including buildings and facilities of the village;
   (D)   Home occupations, but only in conformity with the requirements of §
156.248;
   (E)   Medical and dental clinics; and
   (F)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-20)
§ 156.105 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the SR-
2 Single-Family District:
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract or land;
   (B)   Boats, storage of pleasure boats (limit three);
   (C)   Camping trailer (the storage of not more than one unoccupied camp
trailer);
   (D)   (1)   Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings for sale or
rental offices or show houses for use during construction operations.
      (2)   Provided all other regulations of the District are complied with,
but in no case shall such office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year, whichever is greater.
      (3)   However, such time limit may be extended for one year by the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Keeping of household pets, provided kennels are not maintained, and
provided no animal, reptile, bird, or similar classification or species
normally considered wild, as opposed to domesticated, is maintained or kept;
   (F)   Private greenhouses, tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts,
or patios;
   (G)   Private swimming pool; and
   (H)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (B).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-21)
MR-1 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 156.120 GENERALLY.
   The MR-1 Multiple-Family Residence District is established to stabilize and
conserve existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of multiple-family
dwellings and to promote the development of comparable new areas in order to
accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential environment.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-26)
§ 156.121 LOT, BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building in the MR-1 District shall conform to the
requirements indicated below (detached single-family and two-family dwellings
erected in the MR-1 District shall comply with all applicable regulations of
the MR-1 District):
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet or 2,500 square feet per unit,
whichever is greater;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 80 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 25 feet;
      (2)   For both side yard lines: 15 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: seven and one-half feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 35 feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height: 35 feet;
   (F)   Minimum off-street parking per dwelling unit: two spaces;
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 30%; and
   (H)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: 50 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 60 feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: 75 feet;
      (4)   County highways: 65 feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-27)
§ 156.122 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the MR-1 Multiple-Family
Residential District:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the SR-2 District (see §
156.103);
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
   (C)   Day care centers.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-28)
§ 156.123 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed in the MR-1 District by special use permit
in accordance with §§
156.370 through
156.375:
   (A)   Citizens band tower not to exceed 30 feet;
   (B)   Convenience shops (for example, small drugstores, food stores, or
laundromats);
   (C)   Day care or nursery school;
   (D)   Governmental uses, including buildings and facilities of the village;
   (E)   Home occupations;
   (F)   Mobile home parks;
   (G)   Modular or manufactured homes (see §
156.008(B));
   (H)   Non-residential private parking lots;
   (I)   Nursing homes;
   (J)   Private greenhouse;
   (K)   Public, private, or parochial schools offering courses of
instructional elementary and secondary levels in accordance with standards for
compulsory education;
   (L)   Two-family and multiple-family dwelling; and
   (M)   Utility substations.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-29)
§ 156.124 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the MR-
1 Multiple-Family District:
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land;
   (B)   Same as SR-1 except parking lots and garages serving apartment
buildings are permitted; and
   (C)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (B).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-30)
B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.135 GENERALLY.
   The B-1 Community Business District primarily encompasses the long-
established commercial areas of the village where a wide range of goods and
services is offered to the general public at retail or wholesale.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-50)
§ 156.136 LOT, BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width: 50 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum depth of side yard abutting street: 25 feet;
   (E)   Minimum setbacks: Generally, none required except as necessary to
comply with applicable off-street parking and loading requirements. However,
any lot that abuts any residential district shall meet the front setback and
side setback (on the side abutting the residential use) requirements of such
residential district (see § 156.016);
   (F)   Maximum building height: 40 feet;
   (G)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 50%; and
   (H)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: zero feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: zero feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: zero feet;
      (4)   County highways: zero feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: zero feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-51)
§ 156.137 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted in the B-1 Community Business District
(see §
156.008(B)):
   (A)   Amusement and recreation use, but not drive-in theaters;
   (B)   Any retail use selling convenience and durable goods, including
manufacturer if sold on-site;
   (C)   Automotive and boat repairs, sales, and similar uses;
   (D)   Banks;
   (E)   Bowling alleys;
   (F)   Churches and related facilities;
   (G)   Clubs and lodges;
   (H)   Commercial establishments, wholesale, and retail except those listed
under §
156.138; and
   (I)   Cultural and philanthropic uses;
   (J)   Drive-in restaurants;
   (K)   Eating and drinking establishments;
   (L)   Financial institutions and similar uses;
   (M)   Funeral homes and similar uses;
   (N)   Governmental uses including buildings and facilities of the village;
   (O)   Medical and dental clinics;
   (P)   Offices;
   (Q)   Service establishments (professional);
   (R)   Taverns; and
   (S)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (C).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-52)
§ 156.138 SPECIAL USES.
   The following may be permitted as special uses in the B-1 District in
accordance with §§
156.370 through
156.375, to-wit:
   (A)   Any use, such as drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, service
stations, and the like, that offers goods or services directly to customers
waiting in parked vehicles, or that sells food or beverages for consumption on
the premises in parked motor vehicles;
   (B)   Animal hospital;
   (C)   Assisted living facility;
   (D)   Car wash;
   (E)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (F)   Dwelling units, if located above the first story;
   (G)   Nursing homes;
   (H)   Schools;
   (I)   Storage facilities;
   (J)   Utilities;
   (K)   Utility substations; and
   (L)   Any use permitted in the MR-1 District (see §
156.123).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-53)
§ 156.139 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the B-
1 Community Business District:
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (C);
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading; and
   (C)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided
that such storage shall be located on the lot with the retail, service, or
commercial use, and shall be within a completely enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-54)
B-2 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.150 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The B-2 Highway Business District is intended to accommodate and
regulate strip commercial developments and compatible uses.
   (B)   Since such businesses, both retail and wholesale, draw their patrons
primarily from the motoring public, they typically require direct access to
major streets and large lots for off-street parking and loading.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-56)
§ 156.151 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Storage areas. Any inventory or materials stored outside may be open
to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls or solid fences at least six feet
high.
   (B)   Refuse containers. All refuse generated by facilities located within
this District shall be stored in tightly-covered containers placed in visually-
screened areas.
   (C)   Screening. Along the side and rear lot lines of any lot abutting any
Residential District, screening at least six feet high, which completely blocks
the view from the adjacent residential property, shall be installed. The
screening shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Parking. See §§
156.190 through
156.202.
   (E)   Signs. See §§
156.215 through
156.233.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-57)
§ 156.152 LOT, BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in the B-2 Highway Business District shall
conform to the requirements indicated below:
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 100 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 100 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 50 feet;
      (2)   Total for both side yard lines: 50 feet;
      (3)   From either side lot line: 25 feet;
      (4)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (5)   From side yard abutting street: 50 feet.
   (E)   Maximum structure height: 40 feet;
   (F)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 50%; and
   (G)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: zero feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: zero feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: zero feet;
      (4)   County highways: zero feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: zero feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-58)
§ 156.153 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the B-2 District are observed, the
following uses are permitted (see §
156.151):
   (A)   Any use permitted in the B-1 District (see §
156.137);
   (B)   Churches and related facilities;
   (C)   Clubs and lodges;
   (D)   Commercial establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities;
   (E)   Such uses as the following are especially appropriate in this
District:
      (1)   Bowling alleys;
      (2)   Furniture and appliance sales;
      (3)   Greenhouses;
      (4)   Lumber and building supplies sales;
      (5)   Mobile home and recreational vehicle sales; and
      (6)   Motor vehicles sales.
   (F)   Offices;
   (G)   Service establishments, any type, including drive-in facilities;
   (H)   Such uses as the following are especially appropriate in this
District:
      (1)   Animal hospitals;
      (2)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (3)   Motels and hotels;
      (4)   Motor vehicles services;
      (5)   Restaurants; and
      (6)   Service stations.
   (I)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A) and (C).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-59)
§ 156.154 SPECIAL USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the B-2 District are observed, the
following uses may be allowed by special use permit (see §
156.151):
   (A)   Assisted living facility;
   (B)   Modular or manufactured structures as businesses;
   (C)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives,
flammable gases or liquids, or live animals;
   (D)   Utility substations;
   (E)   Warehousing and wholesaling of any goods except explosives, flammable
gases, or live animals; and
   (F)   Any use permitted in the MR-1 District (see §
156.123).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-60)
§ 156.155 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the B-
2 Highway Business District:
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land as set forth in §
156.023(A) and (C);
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading; and
   (C)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided
that such storage shall be located on the lot with the retail service or
commercial use, and shall be within a completely enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-61)
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.170 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The I-1 Industrial District is intended to provide for areas where
light industry, research facilities, ware houses, and wholesale businesses may
locate without detriment to the remainder of the community.
   (B)   In these areas, a satisfactory correlation of factors required by such
uses exists or can be readily achieved.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-70)
§ 156.171 USE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Nuisances prohibited. No production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repair, sale, or storage of goods, materials, or equipment shall
unreasonably interfere with the use, occupancy, or enjoyment of neighboring
properties or the community as a whole. Unreasonable interferences include, but
are not limited to, excessive traffic congestion, loud, or shrill noises,
excessive emission of smoke, emission of toxic gases, excessive glare, and
noxious odors.
   (B)   Activities enclosed. All production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, or repair activities shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings. Storage areas may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by walls
or fences (whether solid or chain-link), including gates, at least six feet
high.
   (C)   Buffer strips. Wherever any industrial use located in this District
abuts any Residential District, a 20-foot wide view and noise control buffer
strip shall be installed. Such buffer strip shall consist of densely planted
shrubbery that is at least five feet high when planted and that can be expected
to reach a height of ten feet when full grown.
   (D)   Residences prohibited. No dwelling or building used as a residence
shall be permitted as a “permitted,” “accessory,” or “special” use.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-71)
§ 156.172 LOT, STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet;
   (B)   Minimum lot width at the established building line: 125 feet;
   (C)   Minimum lot depth: 150 feet;
   (D)   Minimum setbacks:
      (1)   From front lot line: 35 feet;
      (2)   From any side lot line: 25 feet;
      (3)   From rear lot line: 25 feet; and
      (4)   From side yard abutting street: 35 feet.
   (E)   Maximum structure height: 60 feet;
   (F)   Maximum percent coverage per lot: 50%; and
   (G)   Minimum front of building setback from center of:
      (1)   Local streets: 50 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 63 feet;
      (3)   Arterial streets: 75 feet;
      (4)   County highways: 65 feet; and
      (5)   State and federal highways: 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-72)
§ 156.173 PERMITTED USES.
   Provided all the use restrictions of the I-1 District are observed, the
following uses are permitted (see §
156.171):
   (A)   Assembly, manufacturing, or processing of any commodity from semi-
finished materials, provided explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live
animals are not involved;
   (B)   Freight and bus terminals and related mass transportation facilities;
   (C)   Lumber yards;
   (D)   Parking lots and garages;
   (E)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives, or
flammable gases or liquids;
   (F)   Restaurants;
   (G)   Service stations;
   (H)   Utility substations;
   (I)   Warehousing, or wholesaling of goods, except explosives, flammable
gases or liquids, or live animals; and
   (J)   Accessory uses in accordance with §
156.023(A).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-73)
§ 156.174 SPECIAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted as special uses in the I-1 District by
special use permit in accordance with §§
156.370 through
156.375, to-wit:
   (A)   Any permitted use in the B-1 or B-2 Districts (see §§
156.137 and
156.153);
   (B)   Assisted living facilities;
   (C)   Churches and related religious facilities;
   (D)   Governmental uses, including buildings and facilities of the village;
   (E)   Nursing homes;
   (F)   Telecommunication facility not to exceed 200 feet;
   (G)   Towers; and
   (H)   Utilities.
(Prior Code, § 40-4-74)
§ 156.175 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are allowed as permitted accessory uses in the I-
1 Industrial District: Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary
to the principal use of the lot or tract of land as set forth in §
156.023(A) and (C).
(Prior Code, § 40-4-75)
OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING
§ 156.190 APPLICABILITY.
   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with this
subchapter for all structures and uses erected or established after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-1)
§ 156.191 EXISTING PARKING, LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the same
lot as the use served shall not be reduced, or if already less than, shall not
be further reduced below the requirements and standards for similar new
structures or uses.
   (B)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored, but
additional parking/loading spaces need not be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified through
the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, greater seating capacity, and
the like, additional off-street parking and loading spaces commensurate with
such intensification shall be provided.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, off-street parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required
herein for such new use.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-2)
§ 156.192 PARKING LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   All off-street parking lots shall conform to the standards indicated
in the sections which follow in §§
156.193 through
156.198.
   (B)   Standards applicable to fill parking areas are indicated by one
asterisk (*); standards applicable to all parking areas except those accessory
to single- or two-family dwellings are indicated by two asterisks (**).
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3)
§ 156.193 SPACES.
   (A)   Every off-street parking space shall be at least ten feet wide and 20
feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical clearance.
   (B)   Every space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle
overhangs the public right-of-way (*).
   (C)   Markings shall be laid and restored as often as necessary to clearly
delineate each parking space (**).
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.1)
§ 156.194 INTERIOR AISLES.
   (A)   Aisles within parking lots shall be sufficiently wide to permit safe
and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out of parking
spaces.
   (B)   Aisles designed for two-way traffic shall be at least 22 feet wide.
One-way aisles designed for 60 degree parking shall be at least 18 feet wide
(**).
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.2)
§ 156.195 ACCESS WAY.
   (A)   Parking lots shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right-
of-way (*).
   (B)   (1)   No access way to any parking lot shall be located within 30 feet
of any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets.
      (2)   At intersections where traffic control devices are installed, the
Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent hazards
(*).
   (C)   Parking lot access ways (as well as residential driveways) and public
streets shall be aligned to form, as closely as feasible, right angles (*).
   (D)   The access way to every parking lot located in any business district
or in the Industrial District shall be at least 24 feet wide unless two one-way
drives, each 12 feet wide, are provided (**).
   (E)   The accessway to every parking lot located in any residential district
or in the Agriculture District shall be at least ten feet wide, but if the
parking area is longer than 100 feet, access shall be provided either by one
two-way drive at least 20 feet wide or by two one-way drives, each at least ten
feet wide (*). (See §
156.247.)
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.3)
§ 156.196 SURFACING.
   (A)   (1)   Parking lots shall be graded and improved with a compacted stone
base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two inches of
asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material.
      (2)   Parking lots used exclusively for employees are hereby exempt from
these requirements, but shall be constructed of an approved dustless surface.
   (B)   Oil and chip is not comparable material (**).
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.4)
§ 156.197 LIGHTING.
   Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking lot shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the lot lines of the parking
lot to the greatest extent possible and in no case shall the light(s) shine on
or into nearby residences (*).
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.5)
§ 156.198 LANDSCAPING.
   In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of dust and trash,
and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open parking areas,
landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every parking lot that
contains 20 or more parking spaces. Parking lots used exclusively for employees
are hereby exempt from these requirements, but shall be constructed of an
approved dustless surface (**).
   (A)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of a more
inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for a certificate
of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will contain 20 or more
parking spaces.
   (B)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Proposed type, amount, size, and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery, and ground cover;
      (2)   Proposed size, construction materials, and drainage of landscaped
islands; and
      (3)   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation, and pedestrian movement.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-3.6)
§ 156.199 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   All off-street parking shall be located in conformity with the following
requirements.
   (A)   For dwellings.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to any dwelling shall be located on the
same lot as the dwelling, such parking spaces shall not be located in any
required front yard or required side yard adjacent to a street except in the
driveway, but may be located in the side or rear yards.
      (2)   (a)   Each parking space accessory to a multiple-family dwelling
shall be unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order to allow
another vehicle to enter/exit the parking area.
         (b)   Provided that this requirement shall not be applicable to two-
family dwellings.
   (B)   For business/industrial uses.
      (1)   Every off-street parking space accessory to any business or
industrial use shall be located within 500 feet of the use served; provided
that no portion of any parking lot for non-residential uses shall extend into
any residential district or into the Agriculture District, except by written
permission of the Administrator.
      (2)   In any Business District or in the Industrial District, off-street
parking facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided
collectively; but only if the total number of spaces so located together is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use, and if all other
pertinent regulations are observed.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-4)
§ 156.200 DESIGN, LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated below.
   (A)   Size of space.
      (1)   Every off-street loading space shall be at least 12 feet wide and
45 feet long exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and shall have vertical
clearance of at least 14 feet.
      (2)   In no case shall a vehicle being loaded or unloaded overhang into
the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Access way. Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least 12
feet wide.
   (C)   Surfacing. Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a
compacted stone base at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two
inches of asphaltic concrete or approved comparable material (no oil and chip).
   (D)   Buffer strips. No loading space or area for vehicles over two-ton
cargo capacity shall be developed closer than 50 feet to the lot line of any
lot located in any Residential District or in the Agricultural District unless
such space/area is completely enclosed by walls, a solid fence, or closely
planted shrubbery at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from residential property.
   (E)   Location. Every off-street loading space shall be located on the same
parcel of land as the use served, and not closer than 50 feet to the
intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets, and not on any
required front yard.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-5)
§ 156.201 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING, LOADING SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. EMPLOYEE PARKING means one parking space shall be required
per one and one-half employees, unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 350 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
   (D)   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more
shall be counted as one space.
   (E)   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for number of off-street parking or loading spaces shall be counted
as part of the off-street parking or loading spaces required for another
structure or use.
(Prior Code, § 40-5-6)
§ 156.202 NUMBER OF PARKING, LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as indicated in
tabular form below. For any use that is not listed in the table, the same
amount of parking and loading space shall be provided as is required for the
most similar listed use. The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination
of similarity.
   (A)   Dwellings, lodgings.
 
Use                       Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required (if
                                                  any)
Manufactured home         Two spaces per dwelling Not applicable
                          unit
Mobile homes and          Two spaces per unit     Not applicable
immobilized homes
                          One space per lodging   One space if the use has
Motels, boarding houses   unit, plus employee     20,000 square feet or more
                          parking                 of floor area
Multiple-family dwellings Two spaces per dwelling Not applicable
                          unit
Single-family and two-    Two spaces per dwelling Not applicable
family dwellings          unit
 
   (B)   Educational, institutional, recreational.
 
Use                      Parking Spaces Require     Loading Spaces Required (if
                                                    any)
Assisted living facility Two spaces per dwelling    On review by the
                         unit plus employee parking Administrator
                         One space per four seats
Churches, assembly halls in the largest seating     Not applicable
                         area
Libraries, museums       One space per 500 square   On review by the
                         feet of floor area         Administrator
                         One space per five beds    To 50,000 square feet of
Nursing homes            plus one and one-half      floor area, one space;
                         spaces per employee on the 50,001-100,000 square feet,
                         major shift                two spaces
                         One space for every 20
Schools, elementary and  students that the building On review by the
junior high              is designed to             Administrator
                         accommodate, plus employee
                         parking
                         One space for every four
                         students that the building On review by the
Senior high              is designed to             Administrator
                         accommodate, plus employee
                         parking
 
   (C)   Commercial, office, service.
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required (if any)
Use                      Parking Spaces Required    Loading Spaces Required
                                                    (if any)
                                                    To 10,000 square feet, one
All commercial and                                  space plus one additional
service uses, unless     One space per 300 square   space per 50,000 square
specifically indicated   feet of floor area         feet of floor area in
otherwise below                                     excess of 10,000 square
                                                    feet
Beauty and barber shops  Two spaces per chair, plus Not applicable
                         employee parking
                         Four spaces per bowling
                         lane plus additional       Not applicable, except as
Bowling alleys           spaces as required herein  required for affiliated
                         for affiliated uses such   uses
                         as restaurants and taverns
Car wash                 Three spaces per wash lane Not applicable
Financial institutions,  Five spaces per teller
drive-in                 window                     Both walk-in and drive-in:
                                                    to 30,000 square feet of
Financial institutions,  One space per 300 square   floor area, none required;
walk-in                  feet of floor area, plus   30,001 to 100,000 square
                         employee parking lot       feet, one space

                                                    To 25,000 square feet of
                                                    floor area, two spaces;
                                                    more than 25,000 square
Furniture and appliance  One space per 600 square   feet of floor area, two
stores                   feet of floor area         spaces, plus one
                                                    additional spaces per
                                                    25,000 square feet of
                                                    floor area in excess of
                                                    25,000 square feet
                         One space per 150 square
                         feet of floor area devoted
Home occupations         to the home occupation in  Not applicable
                         addition to the parking
                         requirements for the
                         dwelling
                         One space per 300 square
Offices generally, but   feet of floor area, not
not medical/dental       required; 30,001 through
offices                  100,000 square feet, one
                         space                      Not applicable
                         One space per 200 square
                         feet of floor area or
Offices, medical/dental  three spaces per
                         professional, whichever is
                         greater
Restaurants, refreshment One space per 25 square of
stands; drive-in         floor area                 One space per structure
                         One space per four seats   having of 10,000 square
Restaurants, refreshment or one space per 50 square feet or more floor area
stands; sit downs        feet of floor area,
                         whichever is greater
                         Two spaces per service
Service stations         stall, plus employee       Not applicable
                         parking
                         One space per two seats or One space per structure
Taverns                  one space per 50 square    having 10,000 square feet
                         feet of floor area,        or more of floor area
                         whichever is greater
Theaters, drive-in       On review by the
                         Administrator              Not applicable
Theaters, indoor         One space per four seats
                         One space per 600 square
                         feet of enclosed floor
                         area plus up to 10,000     To 25,000 square feet of
                         square feet of open lot    floor area and open lot
                         area devoted to sale/      area, two spaces; more
Vehicle sales (autos,    display of vehicles, one   than 25,000 square feet of
boats, trailers, and the space per 2,500 square     floor area and open lot
like)                    feet of open lot area.     area, two spaces plus one
                         Above 10,000 square feet,  additional space per
                         four spaces plus one       25,000 square feet in
                         additional space per 5,000 excess of 25,000 square
                         square feet of open lot    feet
                         area in excess of 10,000
                         square feet
 
   (D)   Industrial.
 
Use                   Parking Spaces Required      Loading Spaces Required (if
                                                   any)
                                                   To 20,000 square feet of
                                                   floor area, one space;
                      Employee parking of one      20,001 to 50,000 square
Any manufacturing,    space per one and one-half   feet, two spaces; 50,001 to
warehousing, or other employee; plus one space per 90,000 square feet, three
industrial use        company vehicle, plus one    spaces; above 90,000 square
                      visitor space per employees  feet, three spaces plus one
                      on the major shift           additional space per 50,000
                                                   square feet of floor area in
                                                   excess of 90,000 square feet
 
(Prior Code, § 40-5-7)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 156.215 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the size, height,
number, location, illumination, and construction of signs permitted in the
various districts of the village.
   (B)   Conditions within the various zone districts that necessitate the
regulation of signs include:
      (1)   Conflicts between traffic control signs and signals, and various
private signs resulting in vehicular and pedestrian safety problems;
      (2)   Signs are sometimes placed in locations or constructed in a manner
that creates a danger to the public during periods of high winds or inclement
weather;
      (3)   The uncontrolled use of signs defeats the sign’s informational and
advertising functions as competitors escalate sign size and expense in an
effort to fairly attract attention; and
      (4)   The uncontrolled use and proliferation of signs create visual
pollution that destroys the beauty of the village, the attractiveness of
commercial areas, and the ability of the public to safely and quickly interpret
the intended message.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-1)
§ 156.216 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   Any sign not expressly permitted in this subchapter shall be deemed
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-2)
§ 156.217 COMPUTATION OF SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Within the limitations and restrictions as further provided in this
subchapter, the total area of all signs which an establishment is permitted to
display shall be computed according to the following formula: One square foot
of sign area per one foot of street frontage or two square feet of sign for
each lineal foot of the front width of the business.
   (B)   Provided, however, that no establishment in any district shall display
more than 300 square feet of sign on any street front.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-3)
§ 156.218 DEFINITION OF SIGN AREA.
   As used in this subchapter, the term SIGN AREA means the area of the one
imaginary square or rectangle which would completely enclose all the letters,
parts, or symbols of a sign. (See §
156.414.)
(Prior Code, § 40-6-4)
§ 156.219 SPECIAL SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise in this subchapter, if an
establishment has frontage on two or more streets, each side having such
frontage shall be considered separately for purposes of determining compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter. However, the area allowance for signs
shall not be aggregated so as to permit such establishment to display on any
one frontage a greater area of signs than would be permitted by application of
the formula set forth above.
   (B)   The side of an establishment adjacent to an off-street parking area
shall not be deemed frontage unless the establishment has no other frontage.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-5)
§ 156.220 SIGNS TO BE NON-HAZARDOUS, WELL MAINTAINED.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, relocated, or maintained so as to prevent
free access or egress from any door, window, fire escape, or driveway.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner that it
interferes with, obstructs the view of, or is likely to be confused with any
authorized traffic control device.
   (C)   Every sign shall be designed and constructed in conformity with any
applicable provisions of the adopted Building Code, if any.
   (D)   Every sign and appurtenance shall be maintained in a neat and
attractive condition by its owner. The sign supports shall be kept to prevent
rust or deterioration.
   (E)   No exposed lamps or bulbs which exceeds 15 watts shall be used on the
exterior surface of any sign so as to expose the face of the bulbs, light, or
lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-6) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.221 ILLUMINATION.
   Illumination of signs is permitted, subject to the following requirements.
   (A)   No sign shall employ red, yellow, or green lights in such a manner as
to confuse or interfere with vehicular traffic.
   (B)   (1)   No sign other than those providing time and temperature
information shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or any other
illuminating device which has a changing light intensity, brightness, or color.
      (2)   Provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to any
message on any electronically-operated, changeable sign.
   (C)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be shaded, shielded, or
directed so that it creates neither a nuisance to adjacent property nor a
traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-7) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.222 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   A NON-CONFORMING SIGN means any lawfully erected sign or billboard that does
not conform to one or more provisions of this subchapter or any amendment
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-8)
§ 156.223 RESTRICTIONS.
   Any non-conforming sign as defined in §
156.222 that does not pose an imminent peril to life or property may lawfully
remain subject to all the restrictions on the enlargement, alteration, or
relocation or reconstruction of non-conforming structures set forth in §§
156.270 through
156.275; provided as follows:
   (A) Merely changing the message displayed on a non-conforming sign shall not
be construed as a prohibited alteration; and
   (B)   Whenever any sign is non-conforming solely because it is appurtenant
to a non-conforming commercial/industrial use located in the Agricultural
District or in any Residential District, said sign shall be treated in the same
manner as it would be if it were appurtenant to a commercial/industrial use
located in any Business District or in the Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-9)
§ 156.224 STRICTLY PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Except as specifically noted otherwise, henceforth, the following signs and
street graphics are strictly prohibited throughout the village:
   (A)   Mobile/portable marquees, except that they may be permitted as a
temporary sign;
   (B)   Signs attached to trees, fences, or public utility poles, other than
warning signs posted by government officials or public utilities;
   (C)   Defunct signs, including the posts or other supports therefor that
advertise or identify an activity, business, product, or service no longer
conducted on the premises where such sign is located;
   (D)   Roof-mounted signs that project or protrude above the highest point of
the roof (see §
156.225);
   (E)   Signs that contain statements, words, or pictures of obscene,
indecent, or immoral character, such as will offend the public morals or
decency;
   (F)   Signs that contain or are in imitation of an official traffic sign or
signal;
   (G)   Signs that are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring, or
manner of illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal;
   (H)   Signs that advertise an activity, business, product, or service not
conducted or no longer conducted on the premises upon which the sign is
located;
   (I)   Signs that move in any manner or have a major moving part;
   (J)   Signs that include, contain, or consist of banners, posters, pennants,
ribbons, streamers, strings, or light bulbs, or spinners, or other similarly
moving devices. These devices, when not part of any sign, are similarly
prohibited, unless they are permitted specifically by other ordinances; and
   (K)   Signs that may swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of wind
pressure because of the manner of their suspension or attachment.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-10)
§ 156.225 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ANY DISTRICT.
   Any sign or other street graphic enumerated below that complies with the
indicated requirements is permitted in any district of the village. Such signs
or street graphics shall not be debited against the displaying establishment’s
sign area allowance. (See §
156.217.)
   (A)   Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers, contractors,
and other individuals or firms involved with the construction, and/or
announcing the character or purpose of the building, but not advertising any
product. Such signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in area, shall be confined
to the site of the construction, and shall be removed within 14 days after the
intended use of the project has begun.
   (B)   (1)   Real estate signs indicating the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises on which they are located. Such signs on residential property shall
not exceed six square feet; on other property, such signs shall not exceed 16
square feet.
      (2)   Not more than one real estate sign per street front shall be
erected on any lot. Such signs shall be removed within seven days of the sale,
rental, or lease.
   (C)   Political signs announcing candidates seeking public/political office
and/or political issues and other pertinent information. In any Agricultural or
Residential District, political signs shall not exceed eight square feet; in
other districts, such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet. Political signs
shall be removed within seven days after the election to which they pertain by
the party responsible for their erection.
   (D)   Garage sale signs advertising a garage or yard sale to be held on
private residential property. Such signs shall not exceed four square feet, and
shall not be posted for longer than five days.
   (E)   Public interest signs and street banners publicizing a charitable or
non-profit event of general public interest. In the Agricultural District, and
in any Residential District, public interest signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet. Public interest signs and street banners shall be permitted only for 60
days before and seven days after the event.
   (F)   Governmental, public, and directional signs, such as traffic control
signs, railroad crossing signs, legal notices, signs indicating the location of
underground cables, no trespassing signs, no parking signs, signs indicating
the entrances and exits of parking lots, signs indicating the location of
public telephones, restrooms, and so forth.
   (G)   Institutional signs identifying a public, charitable, or religious
institution; such signs shall be located on the premises of such institution,
shall not obstruct the vision of motorists, and shall not exceed 24 square
feet.
   (H)   Integral signs carved into stone or inlaid so as to become part of the
building, and containing such information as date of erection, name of
building, and memorial tributes.
   (I)   Home occupation signs identifying only the name and occupation of the
residents. Home occupation signs shall not be illuminated, and shall not exceed
four square feet.
   (J)   Subdivision entrance signs not to exceed six square feet of sign area
not including decorative mounting, which shall not exceed eight feet in height,
shall be non-pole mounted and so located as not to create a safely hazard at
intersections may be permitted.
   (K)   Permanent house numbers and/or permanent name of occupant signs
located on the lot to which the sign applies. Such signs shall not exceed two
square feet for single-family dwelling, nor six square feet for multiple-family
dwellings.
   (L)   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an enclosed
lobby or court of any building or group of buildings, provided such signs are
designed and located to be viewed exclusively by the patrons or residents of
such buildings.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-11)
§ 156.226 AGRICULTURAL; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No sign other than those listed in §
156.224 shall be erected in the Agricultural District or in any Residential
District.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-12) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.227 BUSINESS; INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No establishment located in any Business District or in the Industrial
District shall display on any street front a total area of sign in excess of
the allowance derived by application of the formula set forth in §§
156.216 and
156.224.
   (B)   Additionally, signs in any Business District or in the Industrial
District shall conform to the requirements indicated in the divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(6) below:
      (1)   Flush-mounted signs. No flush-mounted (wall) sign shall:
         (a)   Project more than 18 inches from the wall or surface to which it
is attached; or
         (b)   Extend above the roof line of the building to which it is
attached.
      (2)   Window signs. Signs permanently mounted in display windows shall
not be debited against the sign area allowance of the particular establishment.
      (3)   Projecting signs. No establishment shall display more than one
projecting sign on any street front. No projecting sign shall:
         (a)   Project above the roof line of the building to which it is
attached;
         (b)   Extend below a point eight feet above the ground or pavement;
         (c)   Project over a driveway or beyond the curbline of any public
street;
         (d)   Project more than six feet from the building to which it is
attached;
         (e)   Extend to a point above 12 feet; or
         (f)   Exceed 24 area square feet.
      (4)   Canopy or marquee signs. Signs mounted flush on any canopy or
marquee shall be considered flush-mounted (wall) signs and shall meet the
requirements of §
156.224(A). Signs 'suspended: beneath or canopy or marquee shall be considered
projecting signs and shall meet the requirements of §
156.224(C). Canopy or marquee signs shall be identity signs only.
      (5)   Freestanding signs. No establishment shall display more than one
freestanding sign on any street front. Freestanding signs, whether mounted on
the ground or post-mounted, shall be identity signs only and shall comply with
the following regulations:
         (a)   No part of any freestanding sign shall intrude into any public
right-of-way. No part of any freestanding sign that extends below a point ten
feet above the ground or pavement shall be located closer than ten feet from
the public right-of-way line.
         (b)   The area of any freestanding sign, calculated in accordance with
§
156.217, shall not exceed 100 square feet.
         (c)   When attached to its structural supports, no part of any
freestanding sign shall extend more than 20 feet above the ground or pavement
except in the B-2 District where on-site advertising only may extend upon to
100 feet above the ground or pavement.
         (d)   The length or width of any freestanding sign shall not exceed 12
feet.
      (6)   Billboards. Billboards and other off-premises advertising signs are
strictly prohibited in every district except the Industrial (I-1) and Highway
Business (B-2) District. Every owner of every billboard shall pay an initial
fee of $500 due upon submission of the sign application and $500 annually on
the anniversary of the approval of the application. No billboard shall:
         (a)   Be stacked on top of more than one other billboard but may be
dual stacked;
         (b)   Be located closer than 25 feet to any lot line or any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Be located closer than 500 feet from any other billboard on the
same side of the roadway;
         (d)   Extend more than 60 feet above the ground or pavement;
         (e)   Exceed 400 square feet in area, calculated in accordance with §
156.217. Measurements shall include all of the area contained within the square
shown in §
156.414 and only structural supports shall be excluded in computing total
allowable sign area. Only one side of any double facing sign shall be
considered in the total sign area permitted for any building, use, or lot but
both sides of a double facing sign shall be identical in dimensions; and/or
         (f)   Be located closer than 20 feet to the ground or pavement.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-13)
§ 156.228 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs shall not remain in place for a period of more than 30 days
except when the Zoning Administrator extends the time period for an additional
30 days. Any further time extension shall thereafter be applied for through the
Zoning Board of Appeals and the Board may grant such time extension as seems
reasonable and necessary in compliance with this subchapter. A permit is
required for all temporary signs. (See §§
156.024 and
156.375.)
(Prior Code, § 40-6-14)
§ 156.229 REMOVAL OF SIGN.
   The President of the Board of Trustees may order the removal of any sign
erected or maintained in violation of this subchapter. He or she shall give 30
days notice in writing to the owner of such sign, or of the building,
structure, or premises on which such sign is located to remove the sign or to
bring it into compliance. The President may remove a sign immediately and
without notice if, in his or her opinion, the condition of the sign is such as
to present an immediate threat to the safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-15)
§ 156.230 APPEALS.
   An owner or lessee of a sign in violation of this chapter may appeal the
violation notice issued by the President of the Board of Trustees by filing a
written appeal form in the office of the Village Clerk within 15 calendar days
of the violation notice. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal in
accordance with their usual procedure.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-16)
§ 156.231 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No sign shall be erected, altered, or relocated without a permit issued by
the Village Clerk, except as otherwise provided herein. Where electrical
permits are required, they shall be obtained at the same time as the sign
permit.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-17) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.232 APPLICATIONS.
   The permit application shall contain the location of the sign structure, the
name and address of the sign owner and of the sign erector, and drawings
showing the design and location of the sign and such other pertinent
information as the President of the Board of Trustees may require to ensure
compliance with the codes and ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-18)
§ 156.233 NULLIFICATION.
   A sign permit shall become null and void if the work for which the permit
was issued has not been completed within a period of six months after the date
of the permit. The permit fee shall not be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 40-6-19)
ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 156.245 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements and design/
operational standards for specific, potentially troublesome structures and
uses. These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific
structure or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit; but if more
stringent regulations are applicable in any particular district, such
regulations shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-1)
§ 156.246 AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Farm animals. No barn, stable, shed, or other structure intended to
shelter farm animals shall be erected closer than 300 feet to any existing
dwelling, or closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property,
whichever distance is greater. Similarly, fences shall be erected or other
means shall be taken to prevent farm animals from approaching closer than 300
feet to any existing dwelling or closer than 200 feet to any lot line or
residential property, whichever distance is greater.
   (B)   Farm equipment commodities. No agricultural equipment or commodities
(including, but not limited to, baled crops, fertilizer, or pesticides/
herbicides) shall be stored outdoors closer than 300 feet to any existing
dwelling or closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property,
whichever distance is greater. If said equipment/commodities are stored within
a completely enclosed structure, said structure shall be located at least 100
feet from any lot line of residential property.
   (C)   Barbed wire/electrical fences. See §
156.247(A).
(Prior Code, § 40-7-2)
§ 156.247 FENCES, WALLS.
   (A)   No barbed wire or electrically-charged fence shall be erected or
maintained anywhere in the village, unless a special use permit is granted.
Agricultural Districts are exempt from this division (A).
   (B)   No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be erected within any
public right-of-way or utility easement, except by written permission of the
Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of
the State Drainage Code, 70 ILCS 605/2-1 through 2-13, as amended from time to
time.
   (D)   Fences, walls, and hedges in any district may be located on lot lines,
provided such fences, walls, and hedges exceeding six feet in height shall be
subject to the minimum yard requirements of the district in which such fences
are located.
   (E)   Every fence, wall, or other obstruction shall conform to the special
height restrictions applicable in areas near intersections. (See §
156.021.)
(Prior Code, § 40-7-3)
§ 156.248 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Limitations on use. A home occupation shall be considered a special
use in any residence district, provided the home occupation is subject to the
following limitations.
      (1)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling or permitted
accessory building and carried on by the inhabitants living there, and no
others.
      (2)   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling and dwelling purposes and shall not change the character of use as a
dwelling.
      (3)   The total area used for the home occupation shall not exceed one-
half the floor area of the user’s living unit.
      (4)   There shall be no exterior advertising other than identification of
the home occupation by a sign which shall be attached to the dwelling or the
accessory building and shall not exceed four square feet in area and which
shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material or
equipment used as a part of the home occupation.
      (6)   There shall be no offensive noise nor shall there be vibrations,
smoke, dust, odors, heat, or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
      (7)   There shall be no storage or use of toxic, explosive, or other
dangerous or hazardous materials upon the premises.
      (8)   A home occupation, including studios or rooms for instruction,
shall provide off-street parking area adequate to accommodate needs created by
the home occupation.
      (9)   The use must be in conformance with all valid covenants and
agreements recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds, covering the land
underlying the dwelling.
      (10)   A home occupation permit may be issued for any use allowed by the
Zoning Code, providing all other criteria for issuance of a home occupation
permit are met. No home occupation permit shall be issued for any other use.
   (B)   Permit required. A home occupation shall not be permitted without a
special use permit being granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall
determine whether or not the proposed home occupation complies with all
applicable laws and ordinances.
      (1)   The applicant for a home occupation permit shall be responsible for
providing a list of surrounding landowners and tenants. (See §
156.372.)
      (2)   A hearing upon the application shall be held in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Activities not covered. No home occupation permit shall be required
for activities such as telecommuting, involving no outside sign, little or no
increase in traffic, and with only occasional visits by members of the public
to the home. As used in this section, TELECOMMUTING means working in the home
by using a computer terminal connected by the telephone line to a central
office or central computer.
   (D)   Parking. See §
156.202.
   (E)   Signs. See §
156.224.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-4) (Ord. 2007-2, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 156.249 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   No part of any junk yard, which includes any lot on which any three or
more inoperable vehicles are stored, shall be located closer than 500 feet to
the boundary of any residential district.
   (B)   All vehicles, parts, and equipment shall be stored within a completely
enclosed structure or within an area screened by a wall, solid fence, or
closely-planted shrubbery at least ten feet high and of sufficient density to
block the view from adjacent property. (See definition of “junk yard,” §
156.008(B).)
(Prior Code, § 40-7-5)
§ 156.250 NURSING HOMES.
   (A)   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum
width and depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of two acres.
   (B)   The principal building of any nursing home shall be located at least
25 feet from all lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-6)
§ 156.251 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The regulations of this section do not apply to travel trailers or other
recreational vehicles parked in a permitted travel trailer park that conforms
to the pertinent requirements of the Mobile Housing Code. The requirements of
divisions (A), (C), and (D) below do not apply to travel trailers or other
recreational vehicles parked on a permitted recreational vehicle sales lot.
   (A)   Not more than two travel trailers or recreational vehicles shall be
parked on any lot. They shall not be parked on a street.
   (B)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as a
dwelling.
   (C)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be used as an
office or for any other commercial purpose.
   (D)   Travel trailers or recreational vehicles shall be required to have
setbacks as required for accessory buildings.
   (E)   No travel trailer or other recreational vehicle shall be parked on any
front yard.
   (F)   No unlicensed mobile home may be located in a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle park.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-7)
§ 156.252 SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   All gasoline pumps and other service facilities shall be located at
least 20 feet from any street right-of-way line, side lot line, or rear lot
line.
   (B)   Every access way shall be located at least 200 feet from the principal
building of any fire station, school, public library, church, park, or
playground; and at least 30 feet from any intersection of public streets.
   (C)   Every device for dispensing or selling milk, ice, soft drinks, snacks,
and similar products shall be located within or adjacent to the principal
building.
   (D)   All trash receptacles, except minor receptacles adjacent to the
gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
   (E)   Whenever the use of a service station has been discontinued for 12
consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the
Administrator shall order that all underground storage tanks be removed or
filled with material approved by the Environmental Protection Agency or other
applicable regulatory agency.
   (F)   A permanent curb of at least four inches in height shall be provided
between the public sidewalk and the gasoline pump island, parallel to and
extending the complete length of the pump island.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-8)
§ 156.253 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   No private swimming pool shall be located in any front yard or closer
than ten feet to any side or rear lot line.
   (B)   Every swimming pool that is more than two feet deep shall be enclosed
by a wall or fence at least four feet in height. The passage through such wall
or fence shall be equipped with a gate capable of being secured with a locking
device.
   (C)   All lights used to illuminate any swimming pool shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the lot lines to the
greatest extent possible.
   (D)   A permit and payment of a permit fee shall be required for the
installation of any swimming pool. (See §
156.302.)
(Prior Code, § 40-7-9) (Ord. 2005-4, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 156.254 UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   Every electrical substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange
facility, private sewage treatment plant, private water storage facility, or
similar facility shall be deemed a special use, and shall conform to the
following regulations.
   (A)   Every lot on which any such facility is situated shall meet the
minimum area and dimension requirements of the district in which it is located.
Every part of any such facility shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot
lines, or shall meet the district setback requirements, whichever is greater.
   (B)   In any residential district, every such facility shall be designed,
constructed, and operated with the residential character of the area.
   (C)   Screening at least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to
block the view from adjacent property shall be installed around every such
facility. Furthermore, if the Administrator determines that the facility poses
a safety hazard (for example, if there are exposed transformers), he or she
shall require that a secure fence at least ten feet in height be installed
behind the planting screen.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-10)
§ 156.255 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, parking areas, swimming pools,
or for any other purpose shall be arranged in such a manner as to direct the
light away from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of
passing motorists.
(Prior Code, § 40-7-11)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 156.270 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The requirements imposed by this subchapter are designed to guide the
use of land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are
compatible with the predominant character of each of the various districts.
Lots, structures, and uses of land or structures that do not conform to the
requirements of the district in which they are located tend to impede
appropriate development. For example, non-conformities are frequently
responsible for heavy traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking
facilities, the creation of nuisances, and/or the lowering of property values.
   (B)   The regulations in this subchapter are intended to alleviate such
existing/potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of non-
conformities.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-1)
§ 156.271 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   If the Zoning Board of Appeals grants a variance for any vacant lot
that does not conform to one or more of the lot size (area dimensions)
requirements of the district in which it is located, that lot may nonetheless
be developed for any use permitted in that district if such vacant lot:
      (1)   Was recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds prior to
the effective date of this chapter (or pertinent amendment thereto); and
      (2)   Is at least 50 feet wide.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-2)
   (B)   (1)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage were of record and in common ownership on the
effective date of this chapter, and if one or more of those lots does not meet
the minimum lot width, depth, and area requirements of the district in which it
is located, the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel.
      (2)   No portion of any such parcel shall be developed except in
compliance with this chapter, nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to
create a lot that does not meet the requirements of this chapter. (See §
156.016.)
(Prior Code, § 40-8-2.1)   
§ 156.272 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any otherwise lawful structure which exists on the effective date of this
chapter, but which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter because
of requirements/restrictions concerning lot size, height, setbacks, or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, may lawfully
remain, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. A non-conforming structure may be maintained by ordinary
repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alterations. A non-conforming structure shall not be
enlarged or altered In any way which increases its non-conformity.
   (C)   Relocation. A non-conforming structure shall not be moved unless,
after relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in
which it is situated.
   (D)   Reconstruction.
      (1)   No structure which is destroyed or damaged by any means shall be
reconstructed if the Administrator determines that the cost of such
reconstruction exceeds 50% of the structure’s market value at the time of loss,
unless after reconstruction the structure will conform to all applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located. In the event the
Administrator determines the estimated cost of reconstruction is less than 50%
of the structure’s market value at the time of loss, repairs or reconstruction
shall be permitted, provided such work starts within six months from the date
the damage occurred and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
      (2)   The Administrator may require that the reconstruction cost estimate
be made by a bona fide construction contractor, and that the structure’s market
value at the time of loss be determined by a licensed real estate appraiser.
The owner of the damaged structure shall be responsible for obtaining these
estimates for the Administrator.
      (3)   As an alternative, the market value may be determined by the
Administrator by using the state equalized assessed value multiplied by the
number three.
      (4)   The provisions of this division (D) shall not apply to single-
family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-3)
§ 156.273 NON-CONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the effective date of this
chapter, such use may lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a non-conforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction, relocation. No structure
housing a non-conforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed, or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No non-conforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed for such use, nor shall the non-
conforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (D)   Change of use. A non-conforming use occupying a structure may be
changed to a similar use, to a more restrictive use, or to a conforming use.
Such use shall not thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use.
   (E)   Discontinuance of use.
      (1)   When a non-conforming use of a structure or of a structure and
premises in combination is discontinued for 12 consecutive months or for 18
months during any three-year period, the non-conforming use shall not
thereafter be resumed.
      (2)   Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the non-conforming user shall not be counted in
calculating the length of discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-4)
§ 156.274 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date of this chapter that
would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may lawfully continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A non-conforming use of land
shall not be intensified, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No non-conforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or
in part, unless such use, upon relocation, will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it is proposed to be located.
   (C)   Change of use.
      (1)   Whenever a non-conforming use of a building has been changed to a
more restrictive use or to a conforming use, such use shall not thereafter be
changed to a less restrictive use.
      (2)   If no structural alterations are made, a non-conforming use of a
building may be changed to another non-conforming use of the same or more
restricted classification.
   (D)   Discontinuance.
      (1)   When a non-conforming use of land is discontinued for a period of
12 consecutive months or for 18 months during any three-year period, it shall
not thereafter be resumed, and any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the applicable district regulations.
      (2)   Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in calculating
the length of discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-5)
§ 156.275 NON-CONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall not apply to any change in an
existing structure or to any change in the use of a structure or of land for
which a permit was issued prior to effective date of this chapter or any
pertinent amendment thereto, provided that the work authorized by such permit
is completed within a reasonable time.
(Prior Code, § 40-8-6)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.290 APPOINTMENT, DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of Zoning Administrator who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village
Board for a term of two years.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific
duties:
      (1)   To review applications pertaining to land, structures, and the uses
of land and/or structures;
      (2)   To inspect lots, structures, and uses to determine compliance with
this chapter, and where there are violations, to initiate appropriate
corrective action;
      (3)   To review and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all appeals
and applications for variances, special use permits, amendments, and building
permits and submit a written report to the Board of Trustees monthly;
      (4)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters related to this chapter,
including, but not limited to, district maps, certificates of zoning
compliance, special use permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the
Zoning Board of Appeals, amendments, and all applications/documents related to
any of these items;
      (5)   To republish the zoning district map not later than March 31 if any
rezonings or annexations have been approved during the preceding calendar year
(see §
156.011);
      (6)   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this chapter;
      (7)   To perform such other duties as the Village Board may prescribe
from time to time;
      (8)   The Zoning Administrator shall receive $10 per permit issued if a
permit fee is required to be paid; and
      (9)   The Zoning Administrator shall not take any action on his or her
own behalf or pertaining to his or her own property. Instead, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall take all aforestated action as necessary when the property of
the Zoning Administrator is at issue.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-1)
§ 156.291 INITIAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, no land shall be developed, no new
use or structure shall be established or erected, and no existing use or
structure shall be enlarged, extended, altered, relocated, or reconstructed
until an initial certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The
Administrator shall not issue an initial certificate of zoning compliance
unless he or she determines that the proposed activity conforms to the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-2)
§ 156.292 ZONING APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for a certificate of zoning compliance shall
submit to the Administrator, in graphic and/or narrative form, all the items of
information listed below that are applicable to the particular project. The
Administrator shall decide which items are applicable. (See the filing fee
required in §
156.302.)
   (B)   Items of information.
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed lot,
structure, or use, if different from division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operations, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structures, and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses or structures;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site (USGS ten-foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping, and erosion and
drainage control features on the site, including the parking area;
      (8)   Height, setbacks, and lot coverage of the proposed structures;
      (9)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing and proposed
utilities, whether public or private;
      (12)   Location and square footage of existing and proposed signs by type
and class;
      (13)   Location of adjacent pedestrian and vehicular traffic circulation;
      (14)   Plan for pedestrian and vehicular traffic within the subject area
with consideration given to the established street system serving the subject
area, and to emergency vehicle access to each building;
      (15)   Proposed finished grade of the site;
      (16)   Development schedule providing reasonable guarantees for the
completion of the proposed development or other construction according to the
development schedule;
      (17)   Current zone district classification; and
      (18)   Proposed zone district classification, when applicable.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-3)
§ 156.293 DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Initial certificates of zoning compliance shall be valid for one year, or
until revoked for failure to abide by a corrective action order. The
Administrator may renew initial certificates of zoning compliance for
successive one-year periods upon written request, provided the applicant is
making a good faith effort to complete the authorized work and submits the
applicable extension fee. (See §
156.302.)
(Prior Code, § 40-9-4)
§ 156.294 RELATIONSHIP TO BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, no building permit for the
erection, enlargement, extension, alteration, or reconstruction of any
structure shall be issued until the applicant for such permit has properly
obtained an initial certificate of zoning compliance pertaining to such work.
   (B)   The Village in compliance with the State Architecture Practice Act of
1989 and effective January 1, 1992 (see 225 ILCS 305/1 et seq.) requires that
all new construction and structural renovations of buildings used by the
general public, including multiple housing, but excluding one- and two-family
residences, shall require architectural plans with an architect’s seal from a
licensed architect.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-5)
§ 156.295 FINAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No lot or part thereof that has been recorded or developed after the
effective date of this chapter, and no structure or use, or part thereof, that
has been erected, enlarged, altered, relocated, or reconstructed after the
effective date of this chapter shall be used, occupied, or put into operation
until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued. The Administrator
shall not issue a final certificate of zoning compliance until it has been
determined, by inspection, that the work authorized by the initial certificate
of zoning compliance has been completed in accordance with approved plans.
Failure to obtain a final certificate of zoning compliance shall constitute a
separate violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-6)
§ 156.296 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS.
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds, by inspection or otherwise, that
any lot, structure, or use, or work thereon is in violation of this chapter, he
or she shall so notify the responsible party in writing, and shall order
appropriate corrective action.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-7)
§ 156.297 CONTENTS OF ORDER.
   The order to take corrective action shall be in writing and shall include:
   (A)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
   (B)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
   (C)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
   (D)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
   (E)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference with
the Administrator if he or she so desires;
   (F)   The date by which an appeal of the correction order must be filed, and
a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
   (G)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-8)
§ 156.298 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   A corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or operator of the offending lot, structure, or use if it is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by certified mail to his or her last known address;
   (C)   By publication, if his or her whereabouts are unknown after due and
diligent search; and
   (D)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-9)
§ 156.299 STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever any work being done in violation of an initial certificate of
zoning compliance, the Administrator’s corrective action order may state that
the violation be stopped immediately.
   (B)   In such case, the corrective action order is equivalent to a stop
order. (See §
156.297.)
(Prior Code, § 40-9-10)
§ 156.300 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Administrator determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent
peril to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing,
any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-11)
§ 156.301 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the
Administrator.
   (B)   The Administrator shall record such complaints, promptly investigate,
and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective action.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-12)
§ 156.302 FEES.
   The Board of Trustees establishes the following schedule of fees for the
various permits and procedures listed in this chapter. The fees are intended to
defray the administrative costs connected with the processing/conducting of
such permits or procedures; the fees do not constitute a tax or other revenue-
raising device. All such fees shall be paid in advance by the applicant to the
Village Clerk as follows.
   (A)   Zoning occupancy fees.
Accessory building (larger than 100 $10 per building or $0.04 per square
square feet)                        foot (whichever is greater)
Billboards                          $500 per application and $500 annual fee
Commercial or business structure    $35 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Extension of certificate of zoning  $35 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
compliance                          is greater)
Industrial structure                $100 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Miscellaneous permit (for example,  $0.01 per square foot ($5 minimum; $25
parking lots, decks, driveways,     maximum)
swimming pools, and the like)
Mobile home park permit             $500 or $25 per pad (whichever is
                                    greater, plus engineering costs, if any)
Mobile home unit/manufacture home/  $35 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
immobilized                         is greater)
Multiple-family residence           $35 per unit or $0.04 per square foot
                                    (whichever is greater)
Plan development                    $500 pr $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Sign permit                         $5 or $0.05 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Single-family residence             $25 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Structural additions                $10 or $0.04 per square foot (whichever
                                    is greater)
Notes to Table:
All fees for the above projects that are started prior to obtaining the
zoning occupancy permit and/or paying the fees shall be doubled.
 
   (B)   Zoning Board of Appeals fees.
 
Amendments                      $50 and publication costs
Interpretation of code (appeal) $50 and publication costs
Special use permit              $50 and publication costs
Variance permit                 $50 and publication costs
Notes to Table:
In the event the appellant is successful on the merits of the appeal, the
Zoning Board of Appeals fees shall be refunded to the appellant. However, the
publication costs are non-refundable.
 
(Prior Code, § 40-9-13)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.315 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established in accordance with state
law.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-3) (Prior Code, § 40-10-1)
§ 156.316 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of seven members to serve
respectively for the following terms: one for one year, one for two years, one
for three years, one for four years, one for five years, one for six years, and
one for seven years, the successor to each member so appointed to serve for a
term of five years, all of whom shall reside within the village. Each Board
member shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees. One of the members so appointed shall be named as Chairperson at
the time of his or her appointment. The Zoning Board shall select one of its
members to be the Vice Chairperson and one the Secretary. Each Board member
shall receive compensation as established by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-2)
§ 156.317 TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every member of the Zoning Board of Appeals, which was established
pursuant to the former Zoning Code, shall be entitled to serve on the Zoning
Board of Appeals established by this section until the date his or her term of
office would have expired if the former Zoning Code had remained in effect. Any
person appointed to the Zoning Board of Appeals on or after the effective date
of this chapter shall hold office for five years from the date of his or her
appointment, and until his or her successor has been selected and qualified.
   (B)   With the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, the Mayor may
remove any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals for cause after a public
hearing. Vacancies on the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the same manner
as provided for the appointment of new members.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-3)
§ 156.318 MEETING, QUORUM.
   (A)   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such times, as the Board may determine. All Board
meetings shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt their own rules of
meeting procedures consistent with this chapter and the applicable state
statutes. The Board may select such officers as it deems necessary.
   (B)   The Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the Acting Chairperson may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (C)   (1)   Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and the
affirmative vote of at least four member’s shall be necessary to authorize any
Board action. (See §
156.320 for vote on decisions of Board.)
      (2)   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern all actions by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-4)
§ 156.319 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and examinations.
These minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote or abstention
of each member on each question, and any official action taken.
   (B)   A copy of every rule, variance, order or recommendation of the Board
shall be filed immediately with the Village Clerk and shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-5)
§ 156.320 DECISIONS.
   (A)   The concurring vote of four members of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be necessary to recommend a variance or special use permit or to
recommend an amendment to the Village Board.
   (B)   The recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be by written
letter and shall contain its findings of fact as required for each special use,
variance, and amendment.
   (C)   A copy shall be sent to the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-6)
§ 156.321 PERIOD OF VALIDITY.
   (A)   No decision by the Village Board granting a variance or special use
permit shall be valid for a period longer than 12 months from the date of such
decision unless an application for a zoning certificate is obtained within such
period and construction, moving, remodeling, or reconstruction is started, or
an occupancy certificate is obtained and a use is commenced.
   (B)   However, the Village Board may grant additional extensions of time not
exceeding 180 days each upon written application made within the initial 12-
month period without further notice or hearing, but said right to so extend
said time shall not include the right to grant additional relief by expanding
the scope of the variation.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-7)
§ 156.322 FINALITY OF DECISIONS OF VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   All decisions of the Village Board, shall in all instances be the
final administrative determination and shall be subject to review by a court in
the manner provided by applicable Illinois Complied Statutes.
   (B)   No applicant shall apply for the same or identical request for a
period of one year unless the facts and/or request have substantially changed.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-8)
Editor’s note:
   The Village Board will need to pass an ordinance each time it takes action
on a special use permit, variance, or amendment.
§ 156.323 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   The Secretary of the Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Zoning
Board to serve until a successor is appointed.
   (B)   The Secretary shall record the minutes of the Board’s proceedings and
actions, showing the vote of each member upon each question or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact.
   (C)   The Secretary shall perform such other duties as may be assigned from
time to time by the Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-9)
APPEALS
§ 156.335 NATURE OF AN APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Zoning Administrator in
any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of
this chapter may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals on a prescribed form.
Every such appeal shall be made and treated in accordance with state law and
the provisions of this subchapter.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-3(d)) (Prior Code, § 40-10-12)
§ 156.336 FILING, RECORD TRANSMITTAL.
   Every appeal shall be made within 45 days of the matter complained of by
filing with the Administrator and the Zoning Board of Appeals a written notice
specifying the grounds for appeal. Every appeal shall also be filed with the
Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to state law. Not more than five
working days after the notice of appeal has been filed, the Administrator shall
transmit to the Zoning Board of Appeals all records pertinent to the case.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-14, 70 ILCS 405/22.02A) (Prior Code, § 40-10-13)
§ 156.337 STAY OF FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed unless the
Administrator certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals after the notice of
appeal has been filed with him or her, that for reasons stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Zoning Board of Appeals or
the Circuit Court grants a restraining order for due cause and so notifies the
Administrator.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-12) (Prior Code, § 40-10-14)
§ 156.338 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every appeal
within a reasonable time after the filing of the appeal notice. At the hearing,
any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time, date, and place of
the hearing, and briefly describing the issue to be decided shall be given not
more than 30 days nor less than 15 days before the hearing:
   (A)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality;
   (B)   By certified mail to the applicant; and
   (C)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to any
property affected by the appeal.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-12) (Prior Code, § 40-10-15)
§ 156.339 DECISION BY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals shall render a decision on the appeal within 30 days
after the hearing therein. The Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly
or partly, or may modify or amend the decision or order appealed from the
extent and in the manner that they deem appropriate. In so doing, the Board of
Appeals has all the power of the Administrator.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-3 and 5/11-13-12) (Prior Code, § 40-10-16)
Editor’s note:
   The Board of Appeals is delegated the task of hearing appeals from the
decisions of the zoning administrator or other official charged with
enforcement of an ordinance passed pursuant to the Zoning Enabling Act. This
may, for example, entail determining whether there has been a discontinuance of
a non-conforming use. It is important for the applicant to note the appeal
process because of the requirement of exhaustion of administrative remedies
before suit is filed as well as the more obvious reason of using a less
expensive administrative process for correcting a mistake or error which may
have been made by the Zoning Administrator.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3
VARIANCES
§ 156.350 VARIANCES.
   A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that are
applicable to a particular lot, structure, or use. A so-called “use variance”
(which would allow a use that is neither permitted nor special in the district
in question) is not a variance, it is an amendment, and should be granted only
as provided for in §
156.390.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-5) (Prior Code, § 40-10-18)
§ 156.351 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a variance shall be filed with the Administrator on a
prescribed form. Every variance application shall also be filed with the Soil
and Water Conservation District as per state law. The Administrator shall
promptly transmit said application, together with any device he or she might
wish to offer, to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The application shall contain
sufficient information to allow the Zoning Board of Appeals to make an informed
decision and shall include, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Location of the structure/use for which the variance is sought;
   (C)   Brief description of adjacent lots, structures, and/or uses;
   (D)   Brief description of the problems/circumstances engendering the
variance request;
   (E)   Brief, but specific, explanation of the desired variance;
   (F)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations which,
if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem;
   (G)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may require;
and
   (H)   The filing fee for the application for a variance shall be $100 plus
the cost of publication.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-19) (Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 156.352 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on each
variance request within 60 days after the variance application is submitted to
them.
   (B)   At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (C)   Notice indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed variance shall be given not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing;
      (1)   By certified mail to the applicant;
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality; and
      (3)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to the
property affected by the proposed variance.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-6) (Prior Code, § 40-10-20)
§ 156.353 STANDARDS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not grant any variance unless they
find that the proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of this
chapter, and that the strict application of the district requirements would
result in great practical difficulties of hardship to the applicant.
   (B)   More specifically, the Board shall not decide upon a variance unless
they determine, based upon the evidence presented to them, that:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if the
district regulations are strictly applied;
      (2)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (3)   The variance, if granted, will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare;
      (4)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, that a
variance would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
      (5)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question are located, nor materially frustrate
implementation of the municipality’s comprehensive plan.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-5) (Prior Code, § 40-10-21)
§ 156.354 DECISION BY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board shall be required to submit an advisory report on all
applications within 30 days after the final healing thereon. A copy of the
Zoning Board’s report shall be transmitted to the applicant or appellant and to
the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Board shall specify the terms of relief
recommended (if any) in one statement and its findings of fact in another
statement. The findings of fact shall clearly indicate the Zoning Board’s
reasons for recommending or denying any requested variance.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-11) (Prior Code, § 40-10-22)
§ 156.355 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall act on every proposed variance at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report of the Board of
Appeals. Without further public hearing, the Village Board may approve or
disapprove any proposed variance by simple majority vote of all the members
then holding office. Such decision shall be binding upon the Zoning
Administrator and observed by him or her. The Administrator shall be required
to Incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the Zoning Certificate
to the applicant or appellant whenever a certificate is authorized by the
Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-23)
SPECIAL USES
§ 156.370 SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   This chapter divides the village into various districts and permits in each
district as a matter of right only those uses which are clearly compatible with
one another. Certain other uses, because of their special operational or
physical characteristics, may or may not have detrimental impact on nearby
permitted uses, depending upon their precise location, manner of operation, and
other factors. Such special uses require careful case-by-case review, and may
be allowed only after view and approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-24)
§ 156.371 APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for a special use permit shall submit to the
Zoning Administrator in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
enumerated below. The Administrator shall promptly transmit the completed
application, together with any comments or recommendation he or she might have,
to the Zoning Board of Appeals for further consideration.
   (B)   Items of information.
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure
or use, if different from divisions (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees, and similar matters;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship to
existing uses of structures on adjacent lots;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site and proposed finished grade;
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping, and erosion control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      (8)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      (9)   Number and size of the proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Number and location of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private;
      (12)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require;
      (13)   Location of any signs; and
      (14)   The filing fee for the application for a variance shall be $100
plus the cost of publication.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-25) (Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 156.372 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every
special use permit application within 60 days after the application is
submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed special use shall be given not more than 30 days nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
      (1)   By certified mail to the applicant;
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality; and
      (3)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to the
property affected by the proposed special use.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-7)
(Prior Code, § 40-10-26)
§ 156.373 ADVISORY REPORT; FACTORS CONSIDERED.
   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
reach a final decision. In deciding, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider
the following factors:
   (A)   Whether the proposed design, location, and manner of operation of the
proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, and the physical environment;
   (B)   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with the municipality’s
comprehensive plan, if any:
   (C)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
neighboring property and on the municipality’s overall tax base;
   (D)   The effect the proposed special use would have on this public
utilities and on the traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
   (E)   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use (such
as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-27)
§ 156.374 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   The Village Board shall act on every request for a special use permit at its
next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report by
the Zoning Board of Appeals. Without further public hearing, the Village Board
may approve or disapprove a special use permit by an ordinance passed by simple
majority vote of all members then holding office. In a separate statement
accompanying any such ordinance, the Village Board shall state its findings of
fact, and indicate its reasons for a special use permit.
(65 ILCS 5/11-31-1) (Prior Code, § 40-10-28)
§ 156.375 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   As set forth at §
156.024, requests for temporary use permits shall be treated in the same manner
as requests for special use permits.
   (B)   The Zoning Board shall issue no temporary use permit for a period
longer than one year but may renew any such permit as they see fit.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-29)
AMENDMENTS
§ 156.390 AMENDMENTS.
   The Village Board may amend this chapter in accordance with state law and
the provisions of this section. Proposed alterations of district boundaries or
proposed changes in the status of uses (permitted, special, prohibited) shall
be deemed proposed amendments. Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board,
the Zoning Board, the Plan Commission, the Zoning Administrator, or any party
in interest. The filing fee for the application for variance shall be $100 plus
the cost of the publication.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-30) (Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-10-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
§ 156.391 FILING.
   Every proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on a prescribed form. Every amendment proposal shall also be
filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District pursuant to state law. The
Administrator shall promptly transmit the proposal, together with any comments
or recommendations he or she might wish to make to the Board of Appeals for a
public hearing (filing fee required).
(Prior Code, § 40-10-31)
§ 156.392 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every amendment proposal
within 60 days after said proposal has been submitted to them. At the hearing,
any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time, date, and place of
the hearing and the nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more
than 30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing:
   (A)   By certified mail to the applicant;
   (B)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality; and
   (C)   By first-class mail to all owners of property contiguous to the
property affected by the proposed amendment.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-7) (Prior Code, § 40-10-32)
§ 156.393 ADVISORY REPORT; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   (1)   Within 30 days after the public hearing, the Board of Appeals
shall submit its advisory report to the Village Board.
      (2)   The report shall state the recommendations of the Board of Appeals
regarding adoption of the proposed amendment and its reasons therefor.
   (B)   If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the Board of Appeals shall
include in its advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
      (1)   Existing use and zoning of the property in question;
      (2)   Existing uses and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      (3)   Suitability of the property in question for uses already permitted
under existing regulations;
      (4)   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use; and
      (5)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since that
property was initially zoned or last rezoned.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-33)
§ 156.394 ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD.
   (A)   The Village Board shall act on every proposed amendment at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the advisory report of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Without further public hearing, the Village Board may approve or
disapprove any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Board of Appeals
for further consideration by simple majority vote of all the members then
holding office.
(Prior Code, § 40-10-34)
§ 156.395 WHEN TWO-THIRDS MAJORITY VOTE IS REQUIRED.
   The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the Village
Board is required to pass an amendment to this chapter in each of the following
instances:
   (A)   When passage would be contrary to the recommendation of the Board of
Appeals; and/or
   (B)   When the amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-14)
(Prior Code, § 40-10-35)
§ 156.396 NOTICE TO APPLICANT OF WRITTEN PROTEST.
   In cases of written opposition to an amendment of this chapter as prescribed
in §
156.395, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protester or
protesters on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the
applicant’s attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed amendment.
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-14) (Prior Code, § 40-10-36)
DIAGRAMS, ILLUSTRATIONS, CHARTS
§ 156.410 AREA, BULK REGULATIONS; SUMMARY SHEET.
   (A)   Maximum lot size.
Maximum Lot Size
               Maximum Number of Area in Square Width at Building Mean Depth in
Zone Districts Dwellings         Feet or Acres  Line, in Linear   Linear Feet
                                                Feet
Maximum Lot Size
                 Maximum Number Area in Square  Width at Building Mean Depth in
Zone Districts   of Dwellings   Feet or Acres   Line, in Linear   Linear Feet
                                                Feet
A-1 Agricultural 1              3 Acres         200 feet min.     200 feet min.
B-1 Community    N/A            5,000 square    50 feet min.      100 feet min.
Business                        feet
B-2 Highway      N/A            10,000 square   100 feet min.     100 feet min.
Business                        feet
I-1 Light        N/A            20,000 square   125 feet min.     150 feet min.
Industrial                      feet
                                10,000 square
MR-1 Multiple-   1 per 2,500    feet or 2,500   80 feet min.      100 feet min.
Family           square feet    square feet per
                                dwelling unit
SR-1 Single-     1              7,500 square    80 feet min.      100 feet min.
Family                          feet
SR-2 Single-     1              5,000 square    50 feet min.      80 feet min.
Family                          feet
 
   (B)   Minimum yard dimensions.
   Minimum Yard Size
                       Depth of Side
                       Yard Abutting
                Depth  a Lot, in     Min.
          Depth of     Linear Feet   Distance
          of    Side                 to        Depth   Max.   Max.       Max.
Zone      Front Yard                 Nearest   of Rear Height Coverage   Height
Districts Yard  Abutti               Principal Yard in in     as a       in
          in    ng     Total Min.    on        Linear  Linear Percentage Linear
          Feet  Street for   for     Adjacent  Feet    Feet   of Lot     Feet
                in     Both  Either  Lot in
                Feet                 Feet
   Minimum Yard Size
                        Depth of
                        Side Yard
                 Depth  Abutting a   Min.
                 of     Lot, in      Distance  Depth
           Depth Side   Linear Feet  to        of     Max.   Max.       Max.
           of    Yard                Nearest   Rear   Height Coverage   Height
Zone       Front Abutti              Principal Yard   in     as a       in
Districts  Yard  ng                  on        in     Linear Percentage Linear
           in    Street Total Min.   Adjacent  Linear Feet   of Lot     Feet
           Feet  in     for   for    Lot in    Feet
                 Feet   Both  Either Feet



A-         50    50
1          feet  feet   25    10     N/A       25     35     N/A        N/A
Agricultur min.  min.   feet  feet             feet   feet
al
                        None
                        required
                        but, if
                        provided or
B-               25     when                   20     40
1 Communit N/A   feet   abutting a   N/A       feet   feet   50%        25 feet
y Business       min.   SR or MR
                        District, a
                        side yard of
                        15 feet is
                        required
B-         50    50     50    25               25     40
2 Highway  feet  feet   feet  feet   N/A       feet   feet   50%        25 feet
Business   min.  min.
I-1 Light  35    35     50    25               25     60
Industrial feet  feet   feet  feet   N/A       feet   feet   40%        25 feet
           min.  min.
MR-        25    25
1          feet  feet   15    7.5    15 feet   25     35     30%        25 feet
Multiple-  min.  min.   feet  feet             feet   feet
F amily
SR-        25    25     18                     25     35
1 Single-  feet  feet   feet  8 feet N/A       feet   feet   25%        25 feet
Fa mily    min.  min.
SR-        25    25     15                     25     35
2 Single-  feet  feet   feet  5 feet N/A       feet   feet   25%        25 feet
Fa mily    min.  min.
 
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses.
Accessory Buildings and Uses if Detached Minimum Distance to:
          Principal                  Side Lot    Other Side Lot
Zoning    Building in Front Lot Line Adjacent to Line in Linear Rear Lot Line
Districts Linear Feet in Linear Feet Street in   Feet           in Linear Feet
                                     Linear Feet
Accessory Buildings and Uses if Detached Minimum Distance to:
              Principal   Front Lot   Side Lot    Other Side Lot
Zoning        Building in Line in     Adjacent to Line in Linear Rear Lot Line
Districts     Linear Feet Linear Feet Street in   Feet           in Linear Feet
                                      Linear Feet
A-
1             N/A         50 feet     25 feet     5 feet         5 feet
Agricultural
B-1 Community 15 feet     15 feet     25 feet     See principal  12 feet
Business                                          building
B-2 Highway   15 feet     15 feet     25 feet     15 feet        12 feet
Business
I-1 Light     15 feet     15 feet     25 feet     15 feet        12 feet
Industrial
MR-
1 Multiple-   N/A         N/A         25 feet     5 feet         5 feet
Family
SR-1 Single-  N/A         N/A         25 feet     5 feet         5 feet
Family
SR-2 Single-  N/A         N/A         25 feet     5 feet         5 feet
Family
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 40)
§ 156 .411 CORNERS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2522.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2524.png]
 
(Prior Code, Chapter 40)
§ 156.412 LOT TERMS. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2526.png]
(Prior Code)
§ 156.413 MODULAR, MOBILE HOME IDENTIFICATION SEALS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2528.png]
(Prior Code, Chapter 40)
§ 156.414 SIGN AREA, PROJECTING SIGN, FREE-STANDING SIGN. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2530.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2532.png]
(Prior Code, Chapter 40)
§ 156.415 CONTROL ALONG INTERSECTING HIGHWAYS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2bbb5baeb60d9be901ad31a030c5be14dacb7943/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2534.png]
(Prior Code, Chapter 40)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $75, nor more than $750, plus costs. Each day on which a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-9-14)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
1981-4   - -            Cable television franchise with the Macoupin County
                        Cablevision South Company for a term of 15 years.
                      (Prior Code, § 9-1-1)
                       
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2004-1   4-13-2004   Agreement with the village and the Illinois Municipal
                     League Risk Management Association for membership.
                   (Prior Code, §§ 1-6-1, 1-6-2)
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2024-9   5-8-2024    Changing the zoning of 335 Carson Street to B-1 Community
                     Business District.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                         Code Section
5 ILCS 120/1                         30.05
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                 30.02;
                                     150.045
5 ILCS 120/2.02                      30.03;
                                     30.21
5 ILCS 120/2.03                      30.03
5 ILCS 120/2.06                      30.05
5 ILCS 140/1                         31.008
5 ILCS 270/1                         31.003
5 ILCS 425 et seq.                   31.007
5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.                 31.007
5 ILCS 425/83                        31.007
5 ILCS 430/1 et seq.                 37.99
5 ILCS 430/5-65                      37.99
5 ILCS 430/15-10                     37.23
10 ILCS                              31.020
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.                52.001
35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.                110.01
35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.                110.01
                                     34.042;
35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                34.076;
                                     110.01
50 ILCS 5/21-101 et seq.             34.004
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                 34.097
50 ILCS 105/2                        30.56;
                                     31.021
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.                35.19
65 ILCS                              30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20                  30.54
65 ILCS 5                            70.01
65 ILCS 5/1                          10.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                      153.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-3                      10.03
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4                      31.037
65 ILCS 5/1-2-5                      31.037
65 ILCS 5/1-2-6                      10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.1                    10.99
65 ILCS 5/2-2-12                     33.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1 et seq.                31.036
65 ILCS 5/3.1 through 40-45          30.35
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5                   31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-15                  31.020
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30                  31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-35                  31.001
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-45                  31.049
                                     30.53;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50                  31.002;
                                     31.062
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(B)               30.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(O)               30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-51                  31.036
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-5                   30.50
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-10                  30.54
65 ILCS 5/3.1-15-20                  31.001;
                                     31.041
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-5                   31.035
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5                   30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-15                  30.50
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5                   30.56;
                                     31.085
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-10                  31.049
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-5                   30.60
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10                  30.57
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-20                  30.54
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-30                  30.55
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-35                  30.51;
                                     30.52
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-40                  31.063;
                                     31.064
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-45                  31.064;
                                     31.069
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-50                  31.072
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-51                  31.036
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-55                  31.065
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65                  31.071
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-85                  31.067
                                     11.01;
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-90                  31.037;
                                     31.038
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-95                  31.049
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-110                 31.042
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15                  30.20
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-20                  30.06
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                  30.02;
                                     30.03
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-35                  30.05
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-40                  30.35
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-50                  30.36
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55                  30.37
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-5                   30.62
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5                   33.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10                  33.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15(B)               33.04
65 ILCS 5/3.1-55-10                  31.086;
                                     33.21
65 ILCS 5/4-209.1                    90.084
65 ILCS 5/8-3-1                      34.001
65 ILCS 5/8-8-8                      34.003
65 ILCS 5/8-9-1                      33.20
65 ILCS 5/8-9-2                      33.20
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                     34.042;
                                     34.076
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                     34.075;
                                     34.999
65 ILCS 5/11-1-2                     Ch. 35
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3                     34.002
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                     135.15;
                                     135.16
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6                     Ch. 36
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2                     132.01—
                                     132.03
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4                     132.07
65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 through 5/11-12-12 32.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-5                    155.002
                                     155.021;
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8                    155.078;
                                     155.145
65 ILCS 5/11-12-8 through 5/11-12-12 155.002
65 ILCS 5/11-12-11                   155.005
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                   32.06;
                                     153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1                    156.002
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                    156.315;
                                     156.339
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3(d)                 156.335
65 ILCS 5/11-13-4                    153.09
                                     153.09;
65 ILCS 5/11-13-5                    156.350;
                                     156.353
65 ILCS 5/11-13-6                    156.352
65 ILCS 5/11-13-7                    156.372;
                                     156.392
65 ILCS 5/11-13-11                   156.354
                                     156.337;
65 ILCS 5/11-13-12                   156.338;
                                     156.339
                                     156.336;
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14                   156.390;
                                     156.395;
                                     156.396
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19                   156.011
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7                    Ch. 90
65 ILCS 5/11-20-9                    91.025
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13                   Ch. 90
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                    153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                    153.01
                                     90.107;
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1                    90.108;
                                     156.374
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                    153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1                  90.075;
                                     90.084
65 ILCS 5/11-40-6                    Ch. 90
65 ILCS 5/11-42-3                    Ch. 113
65 ILCS 5/11-42-5                    111.25
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23 Ch. 152
65 ILCS 5/11-80-13                   152.115;
                                     152.116
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17                   152.006
65 ILCS 5/11-207                     70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-208.1                   70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-208.2                   70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-209.1                   70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-302                     70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-303                     70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-310(f)                  70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-313                     70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-401 through 11-416      70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502      70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-602                     70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-603                     70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-604                     70.35;
                                     70.36
65 ILCS 5/11-606(b)                  70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-608                     70.35;
                                     70.36
65 ILCS 5/11-904(a)                  70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-1416                    70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-1419                    70.35
65 ILCS 5/11-1422                    70.35
70 ILCS 405/22.02A                   155.021;
                                     156.336
70 ILCS 605/2-1 through 2-13         156.247
75 ILCS 5/4-1                        31.021
210 ILCS 9/10                        156.007
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.               154.02;
                                     154.40
210 ILCS 115/2.1                     154.01
210 ILCS 115/2.2                     154.01;
                                     156.008
210 ILCS 115/2.3                     154.01;
                                     156.008
210 ILCS 115/2.4                     154.01;
                                     156.008
210 ILCS 115/2.5                     154.01;
                                     156.008
210 ILCS 115/2.7                     154.01
210 ILCS 115/2.10                    154.01;
                                     156.008
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.               153.07;
                                     154.01
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             34.041
220 ILCS 5/16-104                    34.075
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.               52.023
225 ILCS 225/1 through 225/23        156.022
225 ILCS 305/1 et seq.               156.294
225 ILCS 320/1                       50.48
225 ILCS 320/3(1)                    51.26
230 ILCS 15/1                        112.20
230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.                112.26
230 ILCS 15/1-1 et seq.              112.20
                                     112.20;
230 ILCS 15/2                        112.21;
                                     112.22
230 ILCS 15/3                        112.24;
                                     112.25
230 ILCS 15/4                        112.26
230 ILCS 15/6                        112.27
230 ILCS 15/8.1                      112.29
235 ILCS                             114.001
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               114.094
235 ILCS 5/1-3.03                    114.001
                                     114.015;
                                     114.019;
                                     114.020;
                                     114.022;
235 ILCS 5/4-1                       114.026;
                                     114.055;
                                     114.057;
                                     114.059;
                                     114.060
235 ILCS 5/4-2                       30.61
235 ILCS 5/4-4                       114.066;
                                     114.092
235 ILCS 5/4-5                       114.017
235 ILCS 5/6-1                       114.021
235 ILCS 5/6-2                       114.018
235 ILCS 5/6-5                       114.068
235 ILCS 5/6-10                      114.067
235 ILCS 5/6-11                      114.042
235 ILCS 5/6-12                      114.044
235 ILCS 5/6-15                      114.023;
                                     114.068
                                     114.050;
                                     114.058;
235 ILCS 5/6-16                      114.069;
                                     114.070—
                                     114.072
235 ILCS 5/6-17                      114.068
                                     114.061—
235 ILCS 5/6-20                      114.063;
                                     114.065
235 ILCS 5/6-21                      114.024
235 ILCS 5/6-22                      114.068
235 ILCS 5/6-24                      114.025
235 ILCS 5/6-28                      114.041
235 ILCS 5/6-28.5                    114.068
235 ILCS 5/7-1                       114.016
235 ILCS 5/7-5                       114.094
235 ILCS 5/7-7                       114.093
235 ILCS 5/7-9                       114.095—
                                     114.097
235 ILCS 5/7-13                      114.091
235 ILCS 5/7-14                      114.043
235 ILCS 5/10-2                      114.085
235 ILCS 5/10-3                      114.086
235 ILCS 5/10-4                      114.087
235 ILCS 5/10-5                      114.088
235 ILCS 5/10-6                      114.089
235 ILCS 5/10-7                      114.090
410 ILCS 650/1 et seq.               114.052
410 ILCS 650/10                      114.053
415 ILCS 5/4(e)                      51.26
425 ILCS 60/1 through 60/4           154.06
510 ILCS 5/10                        91.026
510 ILCS 5/16                        91.055
510 ILCS 5/17                        91.054;
                                     91.056
510 ILCS 5/24                        Ch. 91;
                                     91.001
510 ILCS 70/7.15                     91.071
615 ILCS 5/4-211                     90.087
615 ILCS 5/5 through 29A             153.06
625 ILCS 5/                          90.081
625 ILCS 5/3-815                     71.04
625 ILCS 5/3-821.1                   90.079
625 ILCS 5/Ch. 4 Art. II             70.08
625 ILCS 5/4-107(k)                  90.087
625 ILCS 5/4-201                     90.075
625 ILCS 5/4-202                     90.076
625 ILCS 5/4-204                     90.076;
                                     90.078
625 ILCS 5/4-205                     90.079
625 ILCS 5/4-206                     90.080
625 ILCS 5/4-207                     90.081
625 ILCS 5/4-208                     90.082
625 ILCS 5/4-209                     90.079;
                                     90.083
625 ILCS 5/4-210                     90.086
625 ILCS 5/4-212.1                   90.088
625 ILCS 5/4-213                     90.088
625 ILCS 5/4-214                     90.999
625 ILCS 5/6-101                     70.08
625 ILCS 5/6-209.1                   71.07
625 ILCS 5/6-303                     70.08
625 ILCS 5/11-203                    70.02
625 ILCS 5/11-206                    72.21
625 ILCS 5/11-208                    70.21
625 ILCS 5/11-208.3(b)(4)            70.08
625 ILCS 5/11-208.7                  70.08
625 ILCS 5/11-301                    70.04
625 ILCS 5/11-302                    70.22
625 ILCS 5/11-304                    70.24
625 ILCS 5/11-313                    70.36
625 ILCS 5/11-415                    70.37
625 ILCS 5/11-501                    70.08
625 ILCS 5/11-502                    70.38
625 ILCS 5/11-503                    70.08
625 ILCS 5/11-505                    70.39
625 ILCS 5/11-506                    70.36
625 ILCS 5/11-604                    70.36
625 ILCS 5/11-605                    70.36
625 ILCS 5/11-608                    70.36
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1 et seq.         71.21
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                 71.22
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(c)              71.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1302                   71.99
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1                 72.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1507                   72.21
625 ILCS 5/11-500 through 11-502     72.03
625 ILCS 5/12-602                    70.56
625 ILCS 5/12-605                    70.55
625 ILCS 5/12-605.1                  70.55
625 ILCS 5/12-605.2                  70.55
625 ILCS 5/12-709                    72.03
625 ILCS 11                          70.35
625 ILCS 11-500 through 11-502       72.03
625 ILCS 12                          70.55
625 ILCS 18c-1101 et seq.            156.008
636 ILCS 5-1 et seq.                 34.060
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.             10.99;
                                     135.30
720 ILCS                             130.02
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.               112.20;
                                     114.018
720 ILCS 5/2-1 through 2-11          130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-13 through 2-16         130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-19                      130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-20                      130.01
720 ILCS 5/16                        70.08
720 ILCS 5/16A                       70.08
720 ILCS 5/24-1                      70.08
720 ILCS 5/24-1 .5                   70.08
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1                    70.08
720 ILCS 5/36-1                      70.08
720 ILCS 550                         70.08
720 ILCS 570                         70.08
740 ILCS 174/15(a)                   37.23
740 ILCS 174/15(b)                   37.23
745 ILCS 10/1-101                    155.006;
                                     156.005
765 ILCS 205/1                       155.162
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.               155.002;
                                     155.145
765 ILCS 205/1(b)                    155.021;
                                     155.076
765 ILCS 205/2                       153.08;
                                     155.078
765 ILCS 205/6                       155.110
765 ILCS 205/7                       155.110
765 ILCS 205/8                       155.110
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.             37.21
775 ILCS 5/6-101                     37.23
805 ILCS 105/1.01 et seq.            114.018
805 ILCS 105/101.1 et seq.           114.092
                                     
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2025 Code Section
Prior Code Section    2025 Code Section
1-1-1                 10.01
1-1-2                 10.02
1-1-3                 10.03
1-1-4                 10.04
1-1-5                 10.05
1-1-8                 10.20
1-1-9                 10.21
1-1-10                10.22
1-1-11                10.23
1-1-15                10.35
1-1-16                10.36
1-1-17                10.06
1-2-1                 30.01
1-2-2                 30.02
1-2-3                 30.03
1-2-4                 30.04
1-2-5                 30.05
1-2-6                 30.05
1-2-7                 30.06
1-2-11                30.20
1-2-12                30.21
1-2-14                30.35
1-2-15                30.36
1-2-16                30.37
1-2-18                11.01
1-2-19                31.020
1-2-20                31.021
1-2-21                31.001
1-2-22                31.002
1-2-23                31.003
1-2-24                31.004
1-2-25                31.005
1-2-26                31.006
1-2-27                33.20
1-2-28                33.21;
                      33.99
1-2-29                33.01
1-2-30                33.02
1-2-31                33.03
1-2-32                33.04
1-2-33                11.02
1-2-34                33.05
1-2-40                30.50
1-2-42                30.52
1-2-43                30.53
1-2-44                30.54
1-2-45                30.55
1-2-46                30.56
1-2-47                30.57
1-2-48                30.58
1-2-49                30.59
1-2-50                30.60
1-2-51                30.61
1-2-52                30.61
1-2-53                30.61
1-2-54                30.62
1-2-56                31.035
1-2-57                31.036
1-2-58                31.037
1-2-59                31.038
1-2-60                31.039
1-2-61                31.040
1-2-62                31.040
1-2-63                31.041
1-2-64                31.042
1-2-65                31.043
1-2-66                31.044
1-2-67                31.045
1-2-68                31.046
1-2-69                31.047
1-2-70                31.048
1-2-71                31.049
1-2-73                31.060
1-2-74                31.061
1-2-75                31.062
1-2-76                31.063
1-2-77                31.064
1-2-78                31.065
1-2-79                31.066
1-2-80                31.067
1-2-81                31.068
1-2-82                31.069
1-2-83                31.070
1-2-84                31.071
1-2-85                31.072
1-2-88                31.085
1-2-89                31.086
1-2-98                31.100
1-2-99                31.101
1-2-100               31.102
1-2-102               31.103
1-2-103               31.104
1-4-1                 33.35
1-4-2                 33.36
1-4-3                 33.37
1-4-4                 33.38
1-4-5                 33.39
1-4-6                 33.40
1-4-7                 33.41
1-4-8                 33.42
1-4-9                 33.43
1-4-10                33.44
1-4-11                33.45
1-4-12                33.46
1-5-1                 31.007
1-5-2                 31.007
1-5-3                 31.007
1-5-4                 31.007
1-5-5                 31.007
1-6-1                 TSO Table II
1-6-2                 TSO Table II
3-1-1                 91.001
3-1-2                 91.002
3-1-3                 91.003
3-1-4                 91.004
3-1-5                 91.005
3-1-6                 91.006
3-1-7                 91.007
3-1-8                 91.008
3-2-1                 91.020
3-2-2                 91.021
3-2-3                 91.022
3-2-4                 91.022
3-2-5                 91.023
3-2-6                 91.024
3-2-7                 91.025
3-2-8                 91.026
3-2-9                 91.027
3-2-10                91.028
3-2-11                91.029
3-2-12                91.030
3-2-13                91.031
3-2-14                91.032
3-2-15                91.033
3-2-16                91.034
3-2-17                91.035
3-3-1                 91.050
3-3-2                 91.051
3-3-3                 91.052
3-3-4                 91.053
3-3-5                 91.054
3-3-6                 91.055
3-3-7                 91.056
3-4-1                 91.070
3-4-2                 91.071
3-4-3                 91.072
3-4-4                 91.073
3-4-5                 91.074
3-4-6                 91.075
3-4-7                 91.999
4-1-1                 32.01
4-1-2                 32.02
4-1-3                 32.03
4-1-4                 32.04
4-1-5                 32.05
4-1-6                 32.06
4-1-7                 32.07
4-1-8                 32.08
4-1-9                 32.09
7-1-1                 110.01
7-1-2                 110.02
7-1-3                 110.03
7-1-4                 110.04
7-1-5                 110.05
7-1-6                 110.06
7-1-7                 110.07
7-1-8                 110.08
7-1-9                 110.09
7-1-10.1              110.25
7-1-10.2              110.26
7-1-10.3              110.27
7-1-11                110.10
7-1-12.1              110.40
7-1-12.2              110.41
7-1-12.3              110.42
7-1-12.4              110.43
7-1-12.5              110.44
7-1-13                110.11
7-1-14                110.12
7-2-1                 111.15
7-2-2                 111.16
7-2-3                 111.17
7-2-4                 111.18
7-2-5                 111.19
7-2-6                 111.20
7-2-7                 111.21
7-2-8                 111.22
7-2-9                 111.23
7-2-10                111.24
7-2-12                111.25
7-3-1                 111.40
7-3-2                 111.41
7-3-3                 111.42
7-3-4                 111.43
7-3-5                 111.44
7-3-6                 111.45
7-3-7                 111.46
7-3-8                 111.47
7-3-9                 111.48
7-3-10                111.49
7-3-11                111.50
7-3-12                111.51
7-4-1                 112.01
7-4-2                 112.02
7-4-3                 112.03
7-4-4                 112.04
7-4-5                 112.05
7-4-6                 112.06
7-4-7                 112.07
7-5-1                 113.01
7-5-2                 113.02
7-5-3                 113.03
7-5-4                 113.04
7-5-5                 113.05
7-5-6                 113.06
7-5-7                 113.07
7-5-8                 113.08
7-7-1                 112.20
7-7-2                 112.21
7-7-3                 112.22
7-7-4                 112.23
7-7-5                 112.24
7-7-6                 112.25
7-7-7                 112.26
7-7-8                 112.27
7-7-9                 112.28
7-7-10                112.29
Chapter 7             110.13;
                      111.01
9-1-1                 TSO Table I
11-1-1                37.01
11-1-2                37.02
11-1-3                37.03
11-1-4                37.04
11-1-5                37.05
12-1-1                92.01
12-1-2                92.02
12-1-3                92.03
12-1-4                92.04
12-1-5                92.05
12-1-6                92.06
12-1-7                92.07
12-1-8                92.08
12-1-9                92.99
14-1-1                153.01
14-1-2                153.02
14-1-3                153.03
14-1-4                153.04
14-1-5                153.05
14-1-6                153.06
14-1-7                153.07
14-1-8                153.08
14-1-9                153.09
14-1-10               153.10
14-1-11               153.99
14-1-12               153.11
15-1-1                53.01
15-1-2                53.02
15-1-3                115.01
15-1-4                115.02
15-1-5                53.03
15-1-6                115.03
15-1-7                53.04
15-1-8                53.05
15-1-9                53.06
15-1-10               115.04
15-1-11               115.05
15-1-12               115.06
15-1-13               115.07
15-1-14               115.08
21-1-1                114.001
21-2-1                114.015
21-2-2                114.016
21-2-3                114.017
21-2-4                114.018
21-2-5                114.019
21-2-6                114.020
21-2-7                114.021
21-2-8                114.022
21-2-9                114.023
21-2-10               114.024
21-2-11               114.025
21-2-12               114.026
21-3-1                114.040
21-3-2                114.041
21-3-3                114.042
21-3-4                114.043
21-3-5                114.044
21-3-6                114.045
21-3-7                114.046
21-3-8                114.047
21-3-9                114.048
21-3-10               114.049
21-3-11               114.050
21-3-12               114.051
21-3-13               114.052
21-3-14               114.053
21-3-15               114.054
21-3-16               114.055
21-3-18               114.057
21-3-19               114.058
21-3-20               114.059
21-3-21               114.060
21-3-22               114.061
21-3-23               114.062
21-3-24               114.063
21-3-25               114.064
21-3-26               114.065
21-3-27               114.066
21-3-28               114.067
21-3-29               114.068
21-3-30               114.069
21-3-31               114.069
21-3-32               114.070
21-3-33               114.071
21-3-34               114.072
21-4-1                114.085
21-4-2                114.086
21-4-3                114.087
21-4-4                114.088
21-4-5                114.089
21-4-6                114.090
21-4-7                114.091
21-4-8                114.092
21-4-9                114.093
21-4-10               114.094
21-4-11               114.095
21-4-12               114.096
21-4-13               114.097
Chapter 21            114.002
23-1-1                154.01
23-1-2                154.02
23-1-3                154.03
23-1-4                154.04
23-1-5                154.05
23-1-6                154.06
23-1-7                154.07
23-1-8                154.08
23-2-1                154.20
23-2-2                154.21
23-2-3                154.22
23-2-4                154.23
23-2-5                154.24
23-2-6                154.25
23-3-1                154.40
23-3-2                154.41
23-3-3                154.42
23-3-4                154.43
23-3-5                154.44
23-3-6                154.45
23-3-7                154.46
23-3-10               154.60
23-3-11               154.61
23-3-12               154.62
23-3-13               154.63
23-3-17               154.64
23-3-18               154.65
23-3-21               154.09
24-1-1                70.01
24-2-1                70.02
24-2-2                70.03
24-2-3                70.04
24-2-4                70.05
24-2-5                70.06
24-2-6                70.07
24-2-7                72.20
24-2-8                72.21;
                      72.99
24-3-1                70.20
24-3-2                70.21
24-3-3                70.22
24-3-4                70.23
24-3-5                70.24
24-4-1                70.35
24-4-2                70.36
24-4-3                70.37
24-4-4                70.38
24-4-5                70.39
24-4-6                70.39
24-4-7                70.39
24-4-8                70.40
24-4-9                70.39
24-4-10               70.41
24-5-1                70.55
24-5-2                70.56
24-6-1                71.01
24-6-2                71.02
24-6-3                71.03
24-6-4                71.04
24-6-5                71.05
24-6-6                71.06
24-6-7                71.99
24-6-7                71.07
24-6-8                71.07
24-6-9                71.08
24-6-10               71.07
24-6-11               Ch. 73, Schd. I
24-6-15               71.20
24-6-16               71.21
24-6-17               71.22
24-6-18               71.99
24-6-19               71.20
24-6-24               71.35
24-6-25               71.36
24-6-26               71.37
24-6-27               71.38
24-6-28               71.39
24-7-1                90.075
24-7-2                90.076
24-7-3                90.077
24-7-4                90.078
24-7-5                90.079
24-7-6                90.080
24-7-7                90.081
24-7-8                90.082
24-7-9                90.083
24-7-10               90.084
24-7-11               90.085
24-7-12               90.086
24-7-13               90.087
24-7-14               90.088
24-7-15               90.999
                      71.09;
Chapter 24            Ch. 74, Schd. I;
                      Ch. 74, Schd. II
25-1-1                90.001
25-1-2                90.002
25-1-3                90.003
25-2-1                90.015
25-2-2                90.016
25-2-3                90.017
25-2-4                90.018
25-2-5                90.019
25-2-6                90.020
25-2-7                90.021
25-2-8                90.022
25-3-1                90.035
25-3-2                90.036
25-3-3                90.037
25-3-4                90.038
25-3-5                90.039
25-3-6                90.040
25-3-7                90.041
25-4-1                90.055
25-4-2                90.056
25-4-3                90.057
25-4-4                90.058
25-4-5                90.059
25-4-6                90.060
25-4-7                90.061
25-4-8                90.062
25-4-9                90.999
25-5-1                90.100
25-5-2                90.101
25-5-3                90.102
25-5-4                90.103
25-5-5                90.104
25-5-6                90.105
25-5-7                90.106
25-5-8                90.107
                      90.004;
                      90.023;
Chapter 25            90.042;
                      90.108;
                      90.089
27-1-1                130.01
27-1-2                130.02
27-2-1                134.01
27-2-2                134.02
27-2-3                132.01
27-2-4                132.02
27-2-5                132.03
27-2-6                131.01
27-2-7                131.02
27-2-9                132.04
27-2-10               134.03
27-2-11               134.03
27-2-15               131.03
27-2-19               132.05
27-2-20               132.06
27-2-21               132.07
27-2-23               133.01
27-2-25               130.15
27-2-26               135.01
27-2-28               135.15;
                      135.16
27-3-1                133.02
27-3-2                133.03
27-3-3                133.04
27-3-4                133.04
27-3-5                133.06
27-4-1                132.08
27-4-2                134.04
27-4-3                134.05
27-4-4                132.09
27-4-7                130.16
27-5-1                133.20
27-5-2                133.21
27-5-3                133.22
27-5-4                133.23
27-5-5                133.24
27-5-6                133.25
27-5-7                133.26
27-5-8                133.27
27-5-9                133.28
27-5-10               133.29
27-5-11               133.30
27-5-12               133.31
27-5-13               133.32
27-5-14               133.33
27-5-15               133.34
27-6-1                133.45
27-6-2                133.46
27-7-1                135.30
27-7-2                135.31
27-9-1                90.120
27-9-2                90.121
27-9-3                90.122
27-9-4                90.123
27-9-5                90.124
27-9-7                90.125
27-9-8                90.126
27-9-9                90.127
27-9-10               90.128
27-9-11               90.129
27-9-12               90.130
27-9-13               90.131
29-1-1                150.001
29-1-2                150.002
29-1-3                150.003
29-1-4                150.002
29-1-5                150.004
29-1-6                150.005
29-1-7                150.006
29-1-8                150.007
29-1-9                150.008
29-1-10               150.009
29-1-11               150.010
29-1-12               150.011
29-1-13               150.012
29-1-14               150.013
29-2-1                150.014
29-2-2                150.014
29-3-1                150.025
29-3-2                150.026
29-3-3                150.027
29-3-4                150.028
29-3-5                150.029
29-4-1                150.040
29-4-2                150.041
29-4-3                150.042
29-4-4                150.043
29-4-5                150.044
29-4-6                150.045
29-5-1                150.060
29-5-2                150.061
29-5-3                150.062
29-5-4                150.063
29-5-5                150.064
29-5-6                150.065
29-5-7                150.066
29-6-1                150.080
29-6-2                150.081
29-6-3                150.082
29-6-4                150.083
29-7-1                150.095
29-8-1                150.110
29-8-2                150.111
29-8-3                150.112
29-8-4                150.113
29-8-5                150.114
29-9-1                150.125
29-9-2                150.126
29-9-3                150.127
29-9-4                150.128
29-9-5                150.129
29-10-1               150.140
29-10-2               150.141
29-10-3               150.142
29-11-1               150.155
29-11-2               150.156
29-11-3               150.157
29-11-4               150.158
29-11-5               150.159
29-12-1               150.170
29-12-2               150.171
29-12-3               150.172
30-1-1                36.01
30-1-2                36.02
30-1-3                36.03
30-1-4                36.04
30-1-5                36.05
30-1-6                36.06
30-2-1                35.01
30-2-2                35.02
30-2-3                35.03
30-2-4                35.04
30-2-5                35.05
30-2-6                35.06
30-2-7                35.07
30-2-9                35.08
30-2-10               35.09
30-2-11               35.10
30-2-12               35.11
30-2-13               35.12
30-2-14               35.13
30-2-15               35.14
30-2-16               35.15
30-2-17               35.16
30-2-18               35.17
30-2-19               35.18
33-1-1                152.035
33-1-2                152.036
33-2-1                152.001
33-2-2                152.002
33-2-3                152.003
33-2-4                152.004
33-2-5                152.005
33-2-6                152.006
33-2-7                152.007
33-2-8                152.008
33-2-9                152.009
33-2-10               152.010
33-2-11               152.011
33-2-12               152.012
33-2-13               152.013
33-2-14               152.014
33-2-15               152.015
33-2-16               152.016
33-2-17               152.017
33-2-18               152.018
33-3-1                152.050
33-3-2                152.051
33-3-3                152.052
33-3-4                152.053
33-3-5                152.054
33-3-6                152.055
33-3-7                152.056
33-3-8                152.057
33-3-9                152.058
33-4-1                152.070
33-4-2                152.071
33-4-3                152.072
33-4-4                152.073
33-4-5                152.074
33-4-6                152.075
33-4-7                152.076
33-4-8                152.077
33-4-9                152.078
33-4-10               152.079
33-4-11               152.080
33-4-12               152.081
33-4-13               152.082
33-4-14               152.083
33-4-15               152.084
33-4-16               152.085
33-4-17               152.086
33-4-18               152.087
33-4-19               152.088
33-4-20               152.089
33-4-21               152.090
33-4-22               152.091
33-4-23               152.092
33-4-24               152.093
33-4-25               152.094
33-4-26               152.095
33-4-27               152.096
33-4-28               152.097
33-4-29               152.098
33-4-30               152.099
33-4-31               152.100
33-5-1                152.115
33-5-2                152.116
33-5-3                152.118
33-6-1                152.130
33-6-2                152.131
33-6-3                152.132
33-6-4                152.133
33-6-5                152.134
33-6-6                152.135
33-6-7                152.136
33-6-8                152.137
33-7-1                152.150
33-7-2                152.151
33-7-3                152.152
33-7-4                152.153
33-7-5                152.154
33-7-6                152.155
Chapter 33            152.019;
                      152.020
Chapter 33, Article V 152.117
34-1-1                155.001
34-1-2                155.002
34-1-3                155.003
34-1-4                155.004
34-1-5                155.005
34-1-6                155.006
34-1-7                155.007
34-2-1                155.008
34-2-2                155.008
34-3-1                155.020
34-3-2                155.021
34-3-3                155.022
34-3-4                155.023
34-3-5                155.024
34-3-6                155.025
34-3-10               155.040
34-3-11               155.041
34-3-12               155.042
34-3-13               155.043
34-3-16               155.055
34-3-17               155.056
34-3-18               155.057
34-3-19               155.058
34-3-20               155.059
34-3-21               155.060
34-3-22               155.061
34-3-25               155.075
34-3-26               155.076
34-3-27               155.077
34-3-28               155.078
34-3-29               155.079
34-3-30               155.080
34-3-31               155.081
34-3-35               155.095
34-3-36               155.096
34-3-40               155.110
34-4-1                155.125
34-4-2                155.126
34-4-3                155.127
34-4-4                155.128
34-4-5                155.129
34-4-6                155.130
34-4-7                155.131
34-4-8                155.999
34-5-1                155.145
34-5-2                155.146
34-5-4                155.160
34-5-5                155.161
34-5-6                155.162
34-5-7                155.175
34-5-8                155.176
34-5-9                155.177
34-5-10               155.178
34-5-11               155.179
34-5-12               155.181
34-5-13               155.182
34-5-14               155.183
34-5-15               155.184
34-5-16               155.185
34-5-20               155.200
34-5-21               155.201
34-5-22               155.202
34-5-23               155.203
34-5-25               155.215
34-5-26               155.215
34-5-27               155.216
34-5-29               155.230
34-5-30               155.230
34-5-32               155.245
34-5-33               155.246
34-5-35               155.260
34-5-37               155.275
34-5-38               155.275
34-5-39               155.275
34-5-40               155.275
34-5-42               155.290
34-5-43               155.290
34-5-44               155.290
34-5-45               155.291
34-5-46               155.291
34-5-47               155.291;
                      155.999
34-5-49               155.305
34-5-50               155.305
34-5-52               155.320
34-5-53               155.320
34-5-54               155.320
34-5-55               155.320
34-5-56               155.320
34-5-57               155.320
34-5-58               155.320
34-5-60               155.321
34-5-61               155.321
34-5-62               155.321
34-5-63               155.321
34-5-65               155.321
34-5-66               155.321
34-5-67               155.321
34-5-69               155.999
34-5-70               155.999
34-5-71               155.999
                      155.180;
Chapter 34            155.335—
                      155.338
36-1-1                34.020
36-1-2                34.021
36-1-3                34.022
36-1-4                34.023
36-1-5                34.024
36-1-6                34.025
36-1-7                34.026
36-1-8                34.999
36-2-1                34.001
36-2-2                34.002
36-2-3                34.003
36-2-4                34.004
36-2-5                34.005
36-3-1                34.040
36-3-2                34.041
36-3-3                34.042
36-3-4                34.043
36-3-5                34.044
36-3-6                34.045
36-4-1                34.060
36-5-1                34.075
36-5-2                34.076
36-5-3                34.077
36-5-4                34.078
36-5-5                34.079
36-5-6                34.080
36-5-7                34.999
36-6-1                34.095
36-6-2                34.096
36-6-3                34.097
36-6-4                34.098
36-6-5                34.099
36-6-6                34.100
36-6-7                34.101
36-6-8                34.102
36-6-9                34.103
36-6-10               34.104
36-6-11               34.105
36-6-12               34.106
36-6-13               34.107
36-6-14               34.108
36-6-15               34.109
36-6-16               34.110
36-6-17               34.111
36-6-18               34.112
38-3-1                50.01
38-3-2                50.02
38-3-3                50.03
38-3-4                50.04
38-3-5                50.05
38-3-6                50.06
38-3-7                50.07
38-3-8                50.08
38-3-9                50.09
38-3-10               50.10
38-3-11               50.11
38-3-12               50.12
38-3-13               50.13
38-3-14               50.14
38-3-15               50.15
38-3-16               50.16
38-3-19               51.01
38-3-20               51.02
38-3-21               51.03
38-3-22               51.04
38-3-23               51.05
38-3-24               51.06
38-3-31               51.20
38-3-32               51.21
38-3-33               51.22
38-3-34               51.23
38-3-35               51.24
38-3-36               51.25
38-3-37               51.26
38-3-38               51.27
38-3-39               51.28
38-3-40               51.29
38-3-41               51.30
38-3-42               51.31
38-3-43               51.32
38-3-50               50.30
38-3-51               50.31
38-4-10               50.45
38-4-11               50.46
38-4-12               50.47
38-4-13               50.48
38-4-14               50.49
38-4-15               50.50
38-4-16               50.51;
                      52.006
38-4-21               52.120
38-4-22               52.121
38-4-23               52.122
38-4-24               52.123
38-4-25               52.124
38-4-26               52.125
38-4-27               52.126
38-5-1                52.001
38-5-5                52.002
38-5-6                52.003
38-5-7                52.004
38-5-8                52.005
38-5-10               52.020
38-5-11               52.021
38-5-12               52.022
38-5-13               52.023
38-5-14               52.024
38-5-15               52.025
38-5-16               52.026
38-5-18               52.040
38-5-19               52.041
38-5-20               52.042
38-5-21               52.043
38-5-22               52.044
38-5-23               52.045
38-5-24               52.046
38-5-25               52.047
38-5-26               52.048
38-5-27               52.049
38-5-28               52.050
38-5-29               52.051
38-5-30               52.052
38-5-35               52.065
38-5-36               52.066
38-5-37               52.067
38-5-38               52.068
38-5-39               52.069
38-5-40               52.070
38-5-41               52.071
38-5-42               52.072
38-5-43               52.073
38-5-44               52.074
38-5-45               52.075
38-5-46               52.076
38-5-50               52.007
38-5-52               52.090
38-5-53               52.091
38-5-54               52.092
38-5-56               52.105
38-5-57               52.106
38-5-60               52.999
38-5-61               52.999
38-5-62               52.999
                      50.17;
Chapter 38            52.140—
                      52.145
40-1-1                156.001
40-1-2                156.002
40-1-3                156.003
40-1-4                156.004
40-1-5                156.005
40-1-8                156.006
40-1-9                156.007
40-2-1                156.008
40-2-2                156.008
40-3-1                156.009
40-3-2                156.010
40-3-3                156.011
40-3-4                156.012
40-3-5                156.013
40-3-6                156.014
40-3-7                156.015
40-3-8                156.016
40-3-9                156.017
40-3-10               156.018
40-3-11               156.019
40-3-12               156.020
40-3-13               156.021
40-3-14               156.022
40-3-15               156.023
40-3-16               156.023
40-3-17               156.023
40-3-18               156.024
40-3-20               156.035
40-3-21               156.036
40-3-22               156.037
40-3-23               156.038
40-3-24               156.039
40-3-25               156.040
40-3-26               156.041
40-3-27               156.042
40-3-28               156.043
40-3-29               156.044
40-3-30               156.045
40-3-31               156.046
40-4-1                156.060
40-4-2                156.061
40-4-3                156.062
40-4-4                156.063
40-4-5                156.064
40-4-6                156.065
40-4-7                156.080
40-4-8                156.081
40-4-9                156.082
40-4-10               156.083
40-4-11               156.084
40-4-12               156.085
40-4-16               156.100
40-4-17               156.101
40-4-18               156.102
40-4-19               156.103
40-4-20               156.104
40-4-21               156.105
40-4-26               156.120
40-4-27               156.121
40-4-28               156.122
40-4-29               156.123
40-4-30               156.124
40-4-50               156.135
40-4-51               156.136
40-4-52               156.137
40-4-53               156.138
40-4-54               156.139
40-4-56               156.150
40-4-57               156.151
40-4-58               156.152
40-4-59               156.153
40-4-60               156.154
40-4-61               156.155
40-4-70               156.170
40-4-71               156.171
40-4-72               156.172
40-4-73               156.173
40-4-74               156.174
40-4-75               156.175
40-5-1                156.190
40-5-2                156.191
40-5-3                156.192
40-5-3.1              156.193
40-5-3.2              156.194
40-5-3.3              156.195
40-5-3.4              156.196
40-5-3.5              156.197
40-5-3.6              156.198
40-5-4                156.199
40-5-5                156.200
40-5-6                156.201
40-5-7                156.202
40-6-1                156.215
40-6-2                156.216
40-6-3                156.217
40-6-4                156.218
40-6-5                156.219
40-6-6                156.220
40-6-7                156.221
40-6-8                156.222
40-6-9                156.223
40-6-10               156.224
40-6-11               156.225
40-6-12               156.226
40-6-13               156.227
40-6-14               156.228
40-6-15               156.229
40-6-16               156.230
40-6-17               156.231
40-6-18               156.232
40-6-19               156.233
40-7-1                156.245
40-7-2                156.246
40-7-3                156.247
40-7-4                156.248
40-7-5                156.249
40-7-6                156.250
40-7-7                156.251
40-7-8                156.252
40-7-9                156.253
40-7-10               156.254
40-7-11               156.255
40-8-1                156.270
40-8-2                156.271
40-8-2.1              156.271
40-8-3                156.272
40-8-4                156.273
40-8-5                156.274
40-8-6                156.275
40-9-1                156.290
40-9-2                156.291
40-9-3                156.292
40-9-4                156.293
40-9-5                156.294
40-9-6                156.295
40-9-7                156.296
40-9-8                156.297
40-9-9                156.298
40-9-10               156.299
40-9-11               156.300
40-9-12               156.301
40-9-13               156.302
40-10-1               156.315
40-10-2               156.316
40-10-3               156.317
40-10-4               156.318
40-10-5               156.319
40-10-6               156.320
40-10-7               156.321
40-10-8               156.322
40-10-9               156.323
40-10-12              156.335
40-10-13              156.336
40-10-14              156.337
40-10-15              156.338
40-10-16              156.339
40-10-18              156.350
40-10-19              156.351
40-10-20              156.352
40-10-21              156.353
40-10-22              156.354
40-10-23              156.355
40-10-24              156.370
40-10-25              156.371
40-10-26              156.372
40-10-27              156.373
40-10-28              156.374
40-10-29              156.375
40-10-30              156.390
40-10-31              156.391
40-10-32              156.392
40-10-33              156.393
40-10-34              156.394
40-10-35              156.395
40-10-36              156.396
Chapter 40            156.410—
                      156.415
                      
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
97-2     - -         156.080;
                     156.100
                     50.09;
223      - -         50.10;
                     50.11
1981-4   - -         TSO Table I
265      4-15-1957   130.16
62-7     7-23-1962   10.36
75-3     4-14-1975   90.120—
                     90.131
76-4     8-16-1976   30.02
                     53.01—
83-1     5-9-1983    53.06;
                     115.01—
                     115.08
85-1     5-13-1985   114.040
676      - -1987     71.04
86-4     1-12-1987   31.006
                     52.001—
                     52.005;
                     52.007;
                     52.020—
                     52.026;
                     52.040—
89-1     2-20-1989   52.052;
                     52.065—
                     52.076;
                     52.090—
                     52.092;
                     52.105;
                     52.106;
                     52.999
                     34.020—
89-5     4-10-1989   34.026;
                     34.999
90-5     8-13-1990   52.042
91-2     7-10-1991   70.41
91-7     12-9-1991   51.06
94-1     4-11-1994   90.001—
                     90.003
95-5     8-14-1995   34.040—
                     34.045
1997-11  11-10-1997  135.15;
                     135.16
866      6-17-1998   71.05
                     92.01—
1998-4   8-13-1998   92.08;
                     92.99
1998-8   10-12-1998  50.46—
                     50.50
                     90.055—
1997-4   5-12-1999   90.062;
                     90.999
99-7     6-14-1999   31.007
1999-7   6-14-1999   37.01—
                     37.05
1999-10  12-14-1999  33.35—
                     33.46
2001-5   7-9-2001    34.095—
                     34.112
2001-    9-19-2001   90.101
2001-6   10-8-2001   31.007
2002-7   9-9-2002    34.060
2003-2   3-10-2003   31.072
2004-1   4-13-2004   TSO Table II
2005-4   7-11-2005   156.253
2005-5   7-11-2005   114.020
                     91.070—
2006-1   2-13-2006   91.075;
                     91.999
2007-2   4-9-2007    156.248
1064     8-6-2008    Ch. 73, Schd. I
                     71.01—
                     71.08;
                     71.20—
1077     12-17-2008  71.22;
                     71.35—39;
                     71.99;
                     Ch. 73, Schd. I
2009-2   2-9-2009    50.45
2009-8   8-10-2009   114.020
2010-6   6-17-2010   50.51;
                     52.006
2010-7   11-15-2010  90.122
2013-9   11-18-2013  10.99
7        8-24-2014   30.01
2017-1   1-7-2017    31.009
                     90.075—
1709     6-21-2017   90.088;
                     90.999
                     151.01—
2017-7   7-10-2017   151.15;
                     151.99
2017-11  9-11-2017   37.55—
                     37.59
2017-12  9-11-2017   37.35—
                     37.44
                     72.01—
2017-14  12-11-2017  72.06;
                     72.99
2018-2   2-12-2018   30.22
2019-34  12-12-2019  114.020
                     37.20—
2020-3   6-11-2020   37.24;
                     37.99
2020-5   9-10-2020   Ch. 74, Schd. I
2021-3   4-8-2021    91.009
2021-8   12-9-2021   90.055
                     156.351;
2022-4   3-10-2022   156.371;
                     156.390
2022-5   3-10-2022   90.122
2022-6   5-19-2022   133.07
2022-7   5-19-2022   114.056
2022-11  10-13-2022  90.145—
                     90.147
2023-4   8-10-2023   35.19
2024-1   1-11-2024   31.072
2024-2   2-8-2024    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2024-3   2-8-2024    Ch. 73, Schd. III
                     90.160—
2024-4   2-8-2024    90.163;
                     90.999
2024-7   5-9-2024    31.008
2024-8   5-8-2024    70.08
2024-9   5-8-2024    TSO Table III
2024-10  9-12-2024   Ch. 73, Schd. III
2024-11  9-12-2024   31.035
                     156.010;
2025-1   1-23-2025   156.012;
                     156.013
                    
 
 
