MADISON COUNTY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-05, passed 6-13-2024
State legislation current through 2024 ALS #2
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-16
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR MADISON COUNTY, ILLINOIS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Madison County, IL are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the county and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the Madison County Board to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Government Relations Committee of Madison County has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of Madison
County of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of Madison
County Government and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the county that this ordinance take
effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNTY BOARD OF MADISON COUNTY, ILLINOIS:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of Madison County as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Madison County, Illinois.”
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the titles set forth in Exhibit A.
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the County Board and the County Clerk of the County is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the County Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this county, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the County Board of the County of Madison, Illinois on
this 17th day of December, 2014.
                                                                                
                                       Alan J. Dunstan
                                       County Board Chairman
ATTEST:
                                        
Debbie Ming-Mendoza
County Clerk
   EXHIBIT “A”
   MADISON COUNTY, ILLINOIS CODE OF ORDINANCES
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   Rules of Construction
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   County Board
   31.   County Officials and Employees
   32.   Departments, Boards and Commissions
   33.   Labor Relations
   34.   Purchasing
   35.   Taxation
   36.   Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   37.   County Fees, Funds and Policies
   38.   911 Emergency Telephone System
   39.   Administrative Adjudication of Ordinance Violations
   40.   Ethics
   41.   Children’s Advocacy Center
   TITLE V: GENERAL REGULATIONS   
   50.   Animals
   51.   Fireworks
   52.   Traffic Code
   53.   Nuisances
   54.   Permit Regulations
   55.   Food Sanitation Program
   56.   Transportation Regulations
   TITLE VII: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   70.   Alcoholic Liquor
   71.   Amusements
   72.   Cable Television
   73.   Emergency Alarm Systems
   74.   Merchants Providing Products or Services
   75.   Solicitors
   76.   Adult Businesses
   77.   Body Art
   TITLE IX: LAND USAGE
   90.   Building Regulations
   91.   Mobile Home Parks
   92.   Subdivision Regulations
   93.   Zoning Code
   TITLE XI: PUBLIC WORKS
   110.   Private Sewage Disposal System
   111.   Sanitary Landfill Code
   112.   Residential Recycling Code
   113.   Potable Water Supply
   114.   Stormwater Drainage and Detention and Sediment Control
   115.   Construction of Utility Facilities in the Rights of Way
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES [Reserved]
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
   I.   Franchises
   II.   Real Estate Transactions
   III.   Utility Lines
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
   References to 1993 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
ORDINANCE 2015-09
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE COUNTY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, has completed the Supplement
to the Code of Ordinances of the Political Subdivision, which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the County Board to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Illinois;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
county and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNTY BOARD OF THE COUNTY OF MADISON,
ILLINOIS:
   Section 1.   That the 2015 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
County of Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the County Board and the County Clerk of Madison
County is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy
of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the County Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this county, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by Jaw.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the County Board of the County of Madison, IL on this
21st day of October, 2015.
Respectfully submitted,
                                                                
                                                                     
                                                                
                                                                                                                                     
                                                                
                                                                                                                              
Government Relations Committee
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.14   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.15   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Footnotes; cross-references and comments
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the County of Madison shall be
designated as the “Code of Madison County, Illinois” and may be so cited.
(1993 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(1993 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(1993 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1993 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context or the intent of the County Board clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD or COUNTY BOARD. The Madison County Board.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as adopted
by ordinance, and modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Madison County, Illinois.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant of the whole
or part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory, and not directory or
discretionary.
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(1993 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the County Board or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or.”
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(1993 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   Each chapter, section or, whenever divisible, part section of this code of
ordinances is hereby declared to be severable, and the invalidity of any
chapter, section or divisible part section shall not be construed to affect the
validity of any other chapter, section or part section of this code.
(1993 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1993 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1993 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(1993 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(1993 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
(1993 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the County Board requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(1993 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Any county ordinance, regulation or part thereof which conflicts with
these regulations is hereby repealed.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anywise be effected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(1993 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the County Board shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and any amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The county shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the county published in 1993 and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by (1993 Code, §
     ).
(1993 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 FOOTNOTES; CROSS-REFERENCES AND COMMENTS.
   Footnotes, cross-references and other comments are included by way of
explanation only, and should not be deemed to be a part of the text of any
section.
(1993 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
county for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $1,000 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. This penalty does not
restrict the imposition of civil penalties provided for failure to make returns
or pay any taxes levied by the county.
(1993 Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1113
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY BOARD
      
31.   COUNTY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   LABOR RELATIONS
      
34.   PURCHASING
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
      
37.   COUNTY FEES, FUNDS AND POLICIES
      
38.   911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
      
39.   ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
      
40.   ETHICS
      
41.   CHILDREN’S ADVOCACY CENTER
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY BOARD
Section
   
30.01   Organization
   
30.02   Board meetings
   
30.03   Board committees
   
30.04   County Board Chairperson Pro Tem and Chairperson
   
30.05   Terms in office for County Board districts
§ 30.01 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   At the next County Board meeting after this section takes effect, the
County Board shall elect, by simple majority, a member of the Board to serve as
the new Chairperson Pro Tem and a different person to serve as Vice Chairperson
Pro Tem, both of whose terms shall expire upon the seating of the newly elected
Board members following the next general election at which County Board members
are elected, or earlier if removed as outlined in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Board shall meet at the time prescribed by state statute following
the general election at which County Board members are elected to seat the
newly elected members. The County Board shall then elect by simple majority a
member of the Board to serve as Chairperson Pro Tem and a different member of
the Board to serve as Vice Chairperson Pro Tem for a term of two years. A
Chairperson Pro Tem or Vice Chairperson Pro Tem may be removed, with or without
cause, upon a motion adopted by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the County
Board. Upon adoption of a motion to remove the Chairperson Pro Tem: (i) the
Chairperson Pro Tem position becomes vacant; (ii) the Vice Chairperson Pro Tem
immediately assumes the duties of the Chairperson Pro Tem; and (iii) a new
Chairperson Pro Tem shall be elected at the next regularly scheduled County
Board Meeting. A Chairperson Pro Tem removed maintains his or her status as a
member of the County Board.
   (C)   The County Board Chairperson and Board members shall receive such
compensation as set by Board resolution as provided by state statute.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board or in the position of County Board Chairperson
due to resignation or death shall be filled under the procedures prescribed by
state statute.
(1993 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-
20-2022)
§ 30.02 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Board shall be held as required by state
statute and at such other times as may be determined by the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall by resolution set the date, time and place of all
regular meetings of the Board at the initial organization meeting after each
general election. The schedule of meetings shall cover the two year session of
the Board and shall be followed unless changed by Board resolution.
   (C)   Special meetings of the Board shall be held when requested by at least
one-third of the members of the Board. Such requests shall be addressed in
writing to the Clerk of the Board and shall specify the time, place and purpose
of the meeting. The Clerk shall make such notice to Board members and the
public as is required by state statute.
   (D)   The County Board Chairperson shall preside over the meetings of the
Board. The Chairperson Pro Tem shall preside in the absence of the Chairperson.
   (E)   Members shall be seated by districts as determined by the Board.
   (F)   Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern in all cases when
not set aside by rules adopted herein.
   (G)   The County Clerk shall prepare an agenda for each regular meeting and
special meeting of the Board. The agenda shall be sufficiently itemized to
inform Board members and the public of the business to be considered by the
Board. Any Board member may place an item on the agenda by notifying the County
Board Chairperson and the Clerk of the Board. Such items to be placed on the
agenda shall be communicated to the County Board Chairperson and the Clerk of
the Board by 12:00 noon on the fourth working day prior to the appropriate
meeting, and may be referred to the appropriate committee by the County Board
Chairperson.
   (H)   New business items shall be referred by the County Board Chairperson
to a committee he or she deems appropriate for consideration. Such items shall
be considered at the committee meeting following the Board meeting at which
they were introduced. The committee shall report back to the full Board with
its recommendation not later than the second Board meeting following the
introduction of the item. The committee may recommend that the Board approve
the item, not approve the item, approve the item with the committee’s
recommended amendment, or request an extension of time to consider the matter
further. The resolution shall be reintroduced in its original form and may be
passed, defeated or passed with amendments according to the wish of the Board.
   (I)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. All questions that arise shall be determined by a simple majority
voice vote of those present, except as otherwise provided by statute or herein.
   (J)   Any member may demand a roll call vote on any question. The member
demanding the roll call vote and the vote of each member shall be recorded in
the minutes.
   (K)   Votes of the Board involving the appropriation of funds, approval of
the annual budget and tax levy, the issuance of bonds or other instruments of
debt, approval of collective bargaining agreements and the fixing of salaries
shall be by roll call vote.
   (L)   All questions involving the transfer of funds within the county budget
and appropriations and immediate emergency appropriations as provided by state
statute, shall require a two-thirds majority vote for passage and be by roll
call.
   (M)   All members present shall be required to vote. However, it is the duty
of a Board member to determine whether or not that Board member has a conflict
of interest regarding any matter pending before the Board. In the event of a
conflict, it shall be the duty of the Board member to withdraw from any
consideration of the matter, to inform the Board of the conflict and to refrain
from voting on any such matter.
   (N)   No member may speak more than once or longer than three minutes on the
same subject without approval by the County Board Chairperson. This rule may be
suspended by a two-thirds majority vote of the County Board.
   (O)   No member shall leave before the formal close of the day’s session
without notifying the County Board Chairperson.
   (P)   The order of business at Board meetings shall generally be as follows:
      (1)   Pledge of Allegiance;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Public input;
      (4)   Approval of minutes;
      (5)   Presentation of communications;
      (6)   Appointment recommendations;
      (7)   Consent agenda;
      (8)   Standing committee reports and resolutions;
      (9)   New business; and
      (10)   Recess or adjournment.
   (Q)   Procedure for public input at County Board meetings.
      (1)   Fifteen minutes shall be set aside at the beginning of each County
Board meeting for the purpose of allowing members of the public or county
employees to make comments to the County Board.
      (2)   Each speaker shall be allowed three minutes to address the Board.
      (3)   Although not required, anyone wishing to address the Board may pre-
register by filing a completed “Request to Address the Madison County Board”
form with the County Clerk’s Office no earlier than 48 hours prior to the
scheduled Board meeting.
      (4)   The County Board Chairperson will have the prerogative to determine
the procedures to be followed in making presentations. The order of the
speakers during the Board meeting will be based on the order in which the
request to speak was made whether in advance or at the meeting.
      (5)   All speakers will be required to address the Board from the
designated location in the Boardroom, using a microphone if provided.
      (6)   All public comments shall be made in person. Any written statements
transmitted to the County Board or Clerk shall be treated as correspondence and
will not be read aloud at a meeting. If any meeting is being held remotely due
to a disaster declaration or as otherwise permitted by law, a telephone number
or electronic link must be made available to the public and included on the
agenda for use by the public when making comments during such meetings. All
other provisions of this section will apply during remote meetings.
      (7)   No dialogue between the speakers and Board members will be allowed.
      (8)   Speakers shall remain calm while making public comments. Speech
that is profane or otherwise disruptive may warrant a verbal warning by the
Chairperson. If not corrected, the speaker may then be asked to remove himself/
herself from the meeting.
      (9)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, for public hearings before the
Building and Zoning Committee, members of the public may utilize visual aids
and the Committee shall allow any interested person to speak.
   (R)   Unless prior permission is received from the County Board Chairperson,
any person wishing to video tape or otherwise record the Board meeting must do
so from the area designated for the public. Such recording shall be done from a
stationary position.
   (S)   Remote participation. It is the policy of Madison County that any
member of the County Board may attend and participate in any meeting of the
County Board or any meeting of a County Board Committee (collectively referred
to herein as "meeting") by "other means" defined as, by video or audio
conference, provided that such attendance and participation is in compliance
with this policy and any other applicable laws.
      (1)   Prerequisites. A member of the County Board may attend any meeting
electronically, by other means, if the member meets the following conditions:
         (a)   A quorum is physically present throughout the meeting and a
majority of those County Board members physically present votes to approve the
electronic attendance of the meeting.
         (b)   The Board member requesting to attend remotely should notify the
County Board Office and the Clerk of the Board at least 24 hours before the
meeting so that necessary communications equipment can be arranged. Inability
to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in denial of a request
for remote attendance.
         (c)   The member must assert one of the following four reasons why he
or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
            1.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
            2.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Board; or
            3.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other
emergency; or
            4.   The member cannot attend because of an unexpected childcare
obligation.
         (d)   At the meeting, the Clerk of the Board shall inform the Board
Members physically present of the request for electronic attendance.
      (2)   Voting procedures. After a roll call establishing that a quorum is
physically present, the Chairperson shall call for a motion to allow the
requesting member(s) to participate electronically after specifying the reason
entitling the absent member to participate electronically. All of the Board
members physically present are permitted to vote on whether electronic
attendance will be allowed. The motion must be approved by a majority of those
members who are physically present.
      (3)   Adequate equipment requirement. The Board member participating
electronically and other members of the Board must be able to communicate
effectively, and members of the audience attending the meeting must be able to
hear all communications. Before approving electronic attendance at any meeting,
the Board shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective.
      (4)   Minutes. Any member participating electronically shall be
considered an off-site participant and counted as present electronically for
that meeting if the member is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes shall
also reflect and state specifically whether each member is physically present
or by electronic means.
      (5)   Rights of remote member. A member permitted to participate
electronically will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting
and participate in the same capacity as those members physically present,
subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and
adhered to. The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and
counted as to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending
electronically shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote
counted and recorded by the Clerk of the Board and placed in the minutes for
the corresponding meeting. A member participating electronically may leave a
meeting and return as in the case of any member, provided the member attending
electronically shall announce his or her leaving and returning.
   (T)   Remote participation during a disaster declaration. It is the policy
of Madison County that any member of the County Board may attend and
participate in any meeting of the County Board or any meeting of a County Board
Committee (collectively referred to herein as "meeting") by "other means"
defined as, by video or audio conference, during a disaster declaration,
without the physical presence of a quorum of the members, so long as the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The Governor of the State of Illinois or the Director of the
Illinois Department of Public Health has issued a disaster declaration related
to public health concerns because of a disaster as defined in Section 4 of the
Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act, and all or part of the jurisdiction
of Madison County is covered by the disaster area;
      (2)   The County Board Chairman determines that an in-person meeting is
not practical or prudent because of the disaster;
      (3)   All members of the body participating in the meeting, wherever
their physical location, shall be verified and can hear one another and can
hear all discussion and testimony;
      (4)   For open meetings, members of the public present at the regular
meeting location of the body can hear all discussion and testimony and all
votes of the members of the body, unless attendance at the regular meeting
location is not feasible due to the disaster, including the issued disaster
declaration, in which case Madison County must make alternative arrangements
and provide notice pursuant to this policy of such alternative arrangements in
a manner to allow any interested member of the public access to
contemporaneously hear all discussion, testimony, and roll call votes, such as
by offering a telephone number or a web-based link;
      (5)   At least one member of the body, chief legal counsel, or chief
administrative officer is physically present at the regular meeting location,
unless unfeasible due to the disaster, including the issued disaster
declaration; and
      (6)   All votes are conducted by roll call, so each member's vote on each
issue can be identified and recorded.
      (7)   Except in the event of a bona fide emergency, 48 hours' notice
shall be given of a meeting to be held pursuant to this policy. Notice shall be
given to all members of the covered group, shall be posted on the website of
Madison County, and shall also be provided to any news media who has requested
notice of meetings pursuant to subsection (a) of Section 2.02 of the Open
Meetings Act. If Madison County declares a bona fide emergency:
         (a)   Notice shall be given pursuant to subsection (a) of Section 2.02
of the Open Meetings Act, and the presiding officer shall state the nature of
the emergency at the beginning of the meeting;
         (b)   Madison County must comply with the verbatim recording
requirements set forth in Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act.
      (8)   Quorum. Each member of the body participating in a meeting by audio
or video conference for a meeting held pursuant to this policy is considered
present at the meeting for purposes of determining a quorum and participating
in all proceedings.
      (9)   Record. A covered group holding open meetings under this policy
must also keep a verbatim record of all its meetings in the form of an audio or
video recording. Verbatim records made under this division shall be made
available to the public under, and are otherwise subject to, the provisions of
Section 2.06 of the Open Meetings Act.
      (10)   Costs. Madison County shall bear all costs associated with
compliance with this policy.
(1993 Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 2009-02, passed 2-
18-2009; Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-20-2019; Ord. 2021-06, passed 11-17-2021; Ord.
2023-03, passed 10-18-2023)
§ 30.03 BOARD COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Standing committees exist as created by resolution of the Board.
   (B)   Committee meetings may be called by the Committee Chairperson or by a
majority of the committee members.
   (C)   A majority of the committee members shall constitute a quorum for
transacting business. All questions that arise shall be determined by a simple
majority voice vote of those present, except as otherwise provided by statute
or herein.
   (D)   Committees shall set a regular meeting date each month. Notice of all
meetings shall be placed on the County Board calendar, which is maintained by
the County Clerk. Committee Chairpersons are responsible for placing all
committee meetings on the calendar and providing an agenda of each meeting. All
meetings shall be held in compliance with the State Open Meetings Act.
Sufficient notice of changes of meeting dates and times must be given to the
County Clerk to allow compliance with the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/
1 et seq.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept on all committee meetings, including separate
minutes of any executive sessions, with copies sent to the County Clerk’s
office for distribution to committee members. A file of minutes for each
committee shall be kept in the County Clerk’s office to be used by Board
members and the public. All minutes of executive sessions shall be kept in a
separate file by the County Clerk, with disposition of them handled according
to law.
   (F)   All committees shall report to the Board in writing, stating their
findings and opinions on items referred to them. The report and/or resolutions
shall be signed by the majority of the committee present. A minority report may
be presented and, if so presented, shall be signed by the minority members.
   (G)   All items to be placed on the Board agenda shall be communicated to
the County Board Chairperson and the Clerk of the Board by 12:00 noon on the
fourth working day prior to the appropriate meeting.
   (H)   All Board members shall notify the Chairperson of their committees if
they are going to be unable to attend a committee meeting 24 hours in advance.
If such notification is not possible, a Board member who is going to be absent
from a committee meeting is asked to notify the County Board office as soon as
possible.
   (I)   A portion of a Committee meeting shall be set aside for the purpose of
allowing members of the public to make comments to the Committee. The public
comment rules as provided by §
30.02(Q) shall govern during all Committee meetings.
   (J)   The Committee Chairperson shall determine the procedures to be
followed should any person wish to video tape or otherwise record the committee
meeting.
(1993 Code, § 30.04) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 2021-06, passed 11-
17-2021)
§ 30.04 COUNTY BOARD CHAIRPERSON PRO TEM AND CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Chairperson Pro Tem and Chairperson shall have no powers or
authority within the jurisdiction of the County Board, beyond those powers
required by state statute, except as outlined in Madison County Ordinances or
policy.
   (B)   The County Board Chairperson Pro Tem shall appoint the members of the
standing and special committees established by Board resolution, with the
approval of the Board. The Chairperson Pro Tem shall be an ex officio member of
all Board committees. Committee assignments shall remain until the next County
Board election and qualification of members, unless changed by action of the
Chairperson Pro Tem of the County Board.
   (C)   The County Board Chairperson Pro Tem shall implement the decisions and
policies of the Board. The County Board Chairperson Pro Tem shall appoint the
County Administrator, department heads and other officials under the
jurisdiction of the County Board, with approval of the Board.
   (D)   The County Board Chairperson shall appoint members of public boards,
commissions and committees as are required by state statutes, but all such
appointments must first be put before the Government Relations Committee for
consideration and a recommendation prior to going before the entire Board.
Then, these appointments shall be subject to approval by simple majority vote
of the Board.
   (E)   The County Board Chairperson Pro Tem will work with the County
Administrator and County Auditor to prepare a draft county budget for
presentation to the Finance and Government Operations Committee for
consideration and recommendation to the full Board. In preparing the draft
budget, the County Board Chairperson Pro Tem may consult with other Board
Committee Chairpersons, elected officeholders and department heads as the
Chairperson Pro Tem determines to be appropriate and necessary. The draft
budget shall be presented to the Finance and Government Operations Committee by
September 15 of each year.
   (F)   The County Board Chairperson Pro Tem may delegate the County
Administrator to fulfill any or all of the Chairperson Pro Tem’s duties or
powers as outlined in Madison County policy or ordinance, but may withdraw this
delegation at any time.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-20-2022)
§ 30.05 TERMS IN OFFICE FOR COUNTY BOARD DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Establishment of groups. Terms of county board districts shall be
divided into three groups, publicly by lot, and as equally as possible.
   (B)   Terms. Board members or their successors from one group shall be
selected for successive terms of two years, four years and four years; members
or their successors from the second group shall be selected for successive
terms of four years, two years and four years; and members or their successors
from the third group shall be elected for successive terms of four years, four
years and two years. (As illustrated in Exhibit 1 attached to Ord. 2021-11.)
(Ord. 2012-08, passed 8-15-2012; Ord. 2021-11, passed 12-15-2021)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   When mileage paid for attending meetings
   
31.02   Financial reports and statements
   
31.03   Purchases
   
31.04   Paid leave policy for county employees
Officials
   
31.15   County Auditor, County Clerk and Treasurer
   
31.16   County Board Office; County Administrator
Travel Regulations
   
31.30   Applicability and policy
   
31.31   Authority for travel
   
31.32   Allowable transportation expenses
   
31.33   Other allowable expenses
   
31.34   Travel vouchers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 WHEN MILEAGE PAID FOR ATTENDING MEETINGS.
   All mileage shall be paid in accordance with the county resolution relating
to travel.
(1993 Code, § 31.01) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 94-05, passed 4-20-1994)
§ 31.02 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND STATEMENTS.
   (A)   All financial reports and statements of officials and department
heads, whether made pursuant to statutory enactment, or by direction of the
County Board, when due, shall be presented to the County Auditor for audit.
   (B)   At each meeting of the full Board, both the Auditor and County
Treasurer shall present financial reports up to the first day of the month in
which such meeting is held showing receipts, disbursements and balances in each
of the county funds.
(1993 Code, § 31.02) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977)
§ 31.03 PURCHASES.
   All purchases made by and for county use shall be made in strict accordance
with the procedures and rules set forth in
Chapter 34.
(1993 Code, § 31.03) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977)
§ 31.04 PAID LEAVE POLICY FOR COUNTY EMPLOYEES.
   Pursuant to § 15(p) of the Act (820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.), the county hereby
adopts its current paid leave policy for all county employees to the extent set
forth in this code; the Personnel Policy Handbook; personnel policies for
County Board supervisory, professional confidential and non-union employees;
personnel policies for County Board appointed officials and department heads;
annual salary ordinances; any collective bargaining agreements to which the
county is a party and all other binding legislative actions governing paid
leave adopted by the County Board or the county's various elected officials, as
the same may be amended from time to time. However, in no event shall the
county, as an employer, provide less than one day of paid leave per year to any
county employee.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed 11-15-2023)
OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 COUNTY AUDITOR, COUNTY CLERK AND TREASURER.
   (A)   The County Auditor and County Treasurer shall present financial
reports at each Board meeting up to the first day of the month in which the
meeting is held showing receipts, disbursements, investments and balances in
each of the county budgets and funds.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall assist and advise the Board in all matters of
finance and contracts, and specifically assist and advise the County Board
Chairperson Pro Tem and Government and Finance Operations Committee in the
preparation of the annual county budget.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall audit all financial reports and statements of
officeholders and department heads when due, whether made pursuant to state
statute or by direction of the County Board Chairperson Pro Tem and Board.
   (D)   The County Clerk, as Clerk of the Board, shall keep the county
calendar of meetings, post agendas and notify Board members of committee
meetings.
   (E)   The County Clerk shall provide a copy of the proceedings of all
regular and special meetings of the Board to each Board member at least five
working days before the next regular meeting of the Board.
   (F)   The County Clerk shall mail the agenda for each regular and special
Board meeting, or provide e-mail notification of the agenda’s availability on
the county’s website, not less than three working days prior to the scheduled
regular or special Board meeting.
   (G)   The County Treasurer is authorized to delay the required payment of
real estate taxes to provide for installments as follows: 50% of each
installment of taxes shall not become delinquent until 60 days after each
installment would otherwise become delinquent under §§ 21-15, 21-20, 21-25 or
21-30 of the Illinois Property Tax Code, 35 ILCS 200/21-40 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-29-2009; Ord. 2022-03,
passed 7-20-2022)
§ 31.16 COUNTY BOARD OFFICE; COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The County Administrator, under the direction of the County Board
Chairperson Pro Tem shall administer the County Board office, which shall
assist any County Board member or County Board committee in drafting
resolutions and shall provide typing assistance or photocopying service related
to Board or committee business.
   (B)   The County Administrator, under the direction of the County Board
Chairperson Pro Tem, shall coordinate and implement the actions of the County
Board and shall attend County Board committee meetings as required.
   (C)   The County Administrator, under the direction of the County Board
Chairperson Pro Tem, shall have authority to direct the overall management of
all departments under the jurisdiction of the Board and shall provide, under
the direction of the County Board Chairperson Pro Tem, administration and
management oversight to these offices, as well as coordination of operations
with elected officeholders.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 3-16-2005; Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-20-2022)
TRAVEL REGULATIONS
§ 31.30 APPLICABILITY AND POLICY.
   (A)   These travel regulations apply to all county officials and employees
of the county.
   (B)   The purpose of these regulations is to ensure that county officials
and employees who travel on official business will be treated fairly and be
reimbursed at rates which are reasonable; which are consistent with actual,
necessary costs; and which will ensure the promotion of economy in county
government. The purpose is not to create any additional source of income beyond
the official’s or employee’s compensation. If an official or employee chooses
to take accommodations somewhat more luxurious than necessary, he or she must
expect to pay the additional cost personally.
(1993 Code, § 31.30) (Ord. 90-8, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 2007-09, passed 8-15-
2007)
§ 31.31 AUTHORITY FOR TRAVEL.
   (A)   In-county travel.
      (1)   All county officials and employees shall be entitled to
reimbursement for authorized in-county travel by privately owned conveyance in
the furtherance of their duties at the official Internal Revenue Service
published rate for each mile traveled.
      (2)   Authorized in-county travel for County Board members shall be as
defined by statute or county ordinance, or shall be as approved by the County
Administrator, but shall not include travel necessary to attend committee or
board meetings listed on the official schedule of meetings maintained by the
County Clerk’s office.
      (3)   In-county travel for county officials and employees shall be
defined by statute or county ordinance, or shall be approved by an appropriate
supervisor.
   (B)   Out-of-county travel.
      (1)   (a)   All travel outside the St. Louis metropolitan area shall be
approved by the County Administrator for all employees in departments under the
Board and by the appropriate county official for employees in other departments
prior to the beginning of travel. For the purposes of these regulations, the
St. Louis metropolitan area are those counties defined by the United States
Office of Management and Budget as being within the St. Louis Metropolitan
Statistical Area (MSA).
         (b)   Requests for approval for travel outside the St. Louis
metropolitan area shall be submitted by written memorandum. Approval by the
County Administrator or appropriate county official shall be indicated on a
copy for attachment to the travel voucher. No travel voucher will be approved
for reimbursement unless accompanied by an approval request.
      (2)   Trips made outside the county but within the St. Louis metropolitan
area require advance oral authorization by the department head for those
departments under the County Board or from the appropriate county official for
employees in other departments.
(1993 Code, § 31.31) (Ord. 90-8, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 94-05, passed 4-20-
1994; Ord. passed 11-17-1999; Res. passed 5-16-2001; Ord. 2004-5, passed 7-31-
2004; Ord. 2007-09, passed 8-15-2007; Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-20-2022)
§ 31.32 ALLOWABLE TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES.
   (A)   General. Modes of transportation authorized for official travel
include automobiles, railroads, airlines, buses, taxicabs and other usual means
of conveyance. Transportation may include fares and expenses incidental to
transportation such as baggage transfer, official telephone messages in
connection with items classed as transportation and reasonable tips.
   (B)   Taxicabs and limousines. Reimbursement for taxicab fares incurred in
the efficient and economical pursuit of the county’s business will be allowed.
All taxicab fares in excess of $7 must be accompanied by a receipt indicating
the amount paid. When transportation by airport limousine is available and
convenient, it shall be used in lieu of a taxicab.
   (C)   Travel at temporary location. Where the nature and location of the
county business at a temporary location, such as, but not limited to, a
convention, seminar and the like, is such that suitable meals cannot be
procured there, the expenses of daily travel required to procure meals at the
nearest available place will be considered necessary transportation. Also,
transportation between place of lodging and place of business (meeting,
convention, seminar and the like) will be allowed as a transportation expense.
The use of a rental car for this purpose must be approved in advance by the
County Administrator for all employees in departments under the Board or by the
appropriate county official for employees in other departments, prior to the
beginning of travel.
   (D)   Routing of travel. All travel shall be by the most direct route.
Travel by other routes may be allowed when the official necessity therefor is
satisfactory established. If an individual, for his or her own convenience,
travels by an indirect route, he or she shall bear the extra expense.
Reimbursement for expenses will be based only on such charges as would have
been incurred by the most direct and economical route.
   (E)   Airplane accommodations. Travel on airplanes shall ordinarily be coach
class. Reimbursement for first-class accommodations on commercial air carriers
shall be permitted only when:
      (1)   Regularly scheduled flights between authorized origin and
destination points provide only first-class accommodations;
      (2)   Space is not available in less than first-class accommodations in
time to carry out the purpose of travel; and
      (3)   The County Administrator or the appropriate county official
authorizes or approves the use of first-class accommodations as necessary for
the conduct of the mission or other extenuating circumstances. Excursion and
economy class accommodations should be used whenever warranted.
   (F)   Train accommodations. One standard sleeping car roomette is allowable
when overnight travel is involved. When adequate coach accommodations are
available, such accommodations are to be used to the maximum extent possible,
on the basis of advantage to the county, suitability and convenience to the
traveler and nature of the business involved. Otherwise, one seat in a sleeping
or parlor car will be allowed.
   (G)   Use of privately-owned conveyance. The use of privately-owned motor
vehicles for county business is not permitted for out-of-state travel except
when such use is necessary or desirable due to lack of other convenient means
of transportation or is otherwise advantageous to the county.
   (H)   Use of rental vehicles as the principal mode of transportation. The
use of a rental vehicle for county business travel is permitted only when it
can be demonstrated the total rental and fuel costs are advantageous to the
county both in terms of the cost being less than the mileage payment if a
private vehicle were used and less than public transportation, if a reasonable
alternative exists. The use of a rental vehicle shall be approved by the County
Administrator for all employees in departments under the Board, or by the
appropriate county official for employees in other departments, prior to the
beginning of travel.
   (I)   Mileage determinations. Distances between points traveled will be
shown in official highway mileage guides or on official state maps. Substantial
deviations from distances shown in the standard highway mileage guides shall be
verified.
      (1)   Where no guides or maps are available, odometer readings may be
used.
      (2)   Travel within, and in the near vicinity of a city may be reported
as mileage in and around such city.
      (3)   When the use of public transportation is a reasonable alternative,
the mileage payment shall not exceed the cost of using public transportation. A
reasonable alternative exists when the cost of the travel, taking into account
both time and costs, would be less if public transportation were used.
      (4)   Mileage will be payable to only one of two or more individuals
traveling in the same vehicle. The names of individuals so traveling shall be
stated on the travel voucher.
(1993 Code, § 31.32) (Ord. 90-8, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 2007-09, passed 8-15-
2007; Ord. 2022-03, passed 7-20-2022)
§ 31.33 OTHER ALLOWABLE EXPENSES.
   (A)   Per diem expenses. Meal and incidental expenses (M&IE) allowances
shall be provided in accordance with the published rates by the United States
General Services Administration (GSA). A list of these published rates by
locality shall be maintained by the County Auditor.
      (1)   A per diem allowance is allowed when the travel period is overnight
or exceeds 18 hours.
      (2)   An allowance equal to the M&IE rate for the locality shall be
allowed to cover the cost of meals, telegrams, telephone calls, reserving hotel
accommodations, laundry, dry cleaning, tips and gratuities. Receipts need not
be submitted to support this allowance.
      (3)   The M&IE rate shall be paid for each travel day except that
employees are only eligible for only 75% of the total M&IE rate for the first
day and last day of travel.
   (B)   Meal expense. For travel of less than 18 hours, but more than 12
hours, during the same calendar day when a night’s lodging is not required, an
allowance of 75% of the total M&IE rate shall be provided.
   (C)   Lodging.
      (1)   The employee shall be reimbursed for the actual lodging cost, not
to exceed the maximum lodging rate by locality, plus tax, as published by the
GSA.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above and foregoing, if there is a “convention
rate” for lodging at the meeting(s) being attended by persons traveling, then
and in that event the “convention rate” shall be allowed, and the amount over
the sum of the GSA lodging rate per day for the locality shall be paid. A copy
of the meeting brochure must be submitted with the travel voucher at the time
of request for reimbursement.
   (D)   Memorandum of expenses. A memorandum of all travel expenditures
chargeable to the county should be kept by individuals subject to these
regulations. The information thus accumulated provides a basis for the proper
preparation of travel vouchers.
(1993 Code, § 31.33) (Ord. 90-8, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 2007-09, passed 8-15-
2007)
§ 31.34 TRAVEL VOUCHERS.
   (A)   Frequency of submission. Travel vouchers should be submitted no later
than seven days from the end of the month in which travel expense was incurred,
and preferably before the end of the month in which travel expense was
incurred. Individuals submitting travel vouchers are personally responsible for
their accuracy and propriety.
   (B)   Preparation of travel vouchers. Travel vouchers may be typed or
handwritten in ink. All copies must be legible and each page must be signed by
the traveler.
   (C)   Receipts. Travel vouchers shall be supported in all instances by
receipts for railroad and airplane transportation, lodging and all other
individual items in excess of $5, except for meals and incidental items covered
by the per diem expense allowance.
(1993 Code, § 31.34) (Ord. 90-8, passed 11-14-1990; Ord. 2007-09, passed 8-15-
2007)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Community Mental Health Board
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Composition; term of office; removal of members
   
32.03   Duties
   
32.04   Methods of expending tax money
   
32.05   Coordination
   
32.06   Authority
   
32.07   Scope of program
   
32.08   Fees
   
32.09   Board expenses
   
32.10   Special meetings
   
32.11   Appointments made by Chairperson
Health Department
   
32.25   Establishment; powers
   
32.26   Advisory Committee
   
32.27   Continuance of Board of Health
   
32.28   Duties of Chairperson of the County Board
Merit System for Sheriff’s Classified Personnel
   
32.40   Adoption of merit system for Sheriff’s classified personnel
   
32.41   Organization of the Commission
   
32.42   Office and staff
   
32.43   Meetings
   
32.44   Quorum
   
32.45   Voting
   
32.46   Minutes and records
   
32.47   Rules, regulations and procedures; adoption and changes
   
32.48   Ranks of classifications for certification
   
32.49   Positions; classified service
   
32.50   Entry into merit system
   
32.51   Promotion
   
32.52   Certification of tenure
   
32.53   Disciplinary measures
   
32.54   Disciplinary procedures
   
32.55   Testimony and production of books and papers at hearings
   
32.56   Application of Administrative Review Act
   
32.57   Enforcement of orders
   
32.58   Department restrictions for certified personnel
   
32.59   Political affiliations
   
32.60   Prior appointments/certifications
   
32.61   Removal of Merit Commissioner
   
32.62   Appropriations
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH BOARD
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A mental health board is established to provide and supervise mental
health facilities throughout the county by use of tax monies levied in
accordance with statutes.
   (B)   The Mental Health Board in consultation with and advisement with the
State Department of Mental Health, shall have the power to:
      (1)   Review and evaluate community mental health services and
facilities;
      (2)   Submit to the appointing officer and governing body a program of
community mental health services and facilities;
      (3)   Within amounts appropriated therefor execute the program and
maintain the services and facilities as may be authorized under the
appropriations, including amounts appropriated under bond issues if any;
      (4)   Enter into contracts for rendition or operation of services and
facilities on a per capita basis or otherwise;
      (5)   Arrange for the rendition of services and operation of facilities
by other agencies of the governmental unit or county in which the governmental
unit is located with the approval of the governing body;
      (6)   Make rules and regulations concerning the rendition or operations
of services and facilities under its direction or supervision;
      (7)   Employ personnel as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of
an act relating to community health facilities and services and prescribe the
duties of the personnel; and
      (8)   Perform other acts as may be necessary or proper to carry out the
purposes of the acts consistent with the regulations of the Director of the
Department of Mental Health.
      (9)   Construct, repair, operate, maintain and regulate community mental
health facilities to provide mental health services.
      (10)   Accept donations of property and funds for the purposes specified
in this Act.
   (C)   The Board shall have the additional powers as set forth in 405 ILCS
20/3e(2)
(1993 Code, § 32.01) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
Statutory reference:
   Community Mental Health Act, see 405 ILCS 20
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   There is established a Community Mental Health Board which shall
administer the act relating to community health facilities and services and the
Community Mental Health Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the
Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners and this Board shall, as
nearly as possible, be representative of interested groups of the community
such as local health departments, medical societies, local comprehensive health
departments, medical societies, local comprehensive planning agencies, hospital
boards, lay associations concerned with mental health, developmental
disabilities and substance abuse, as well as the general public. Only one
member shall be a member of the governing body. No member of the Community
Mental Health Board may be a full-time or part-time employees of the Department
of Human Services or a Board member, employee or any other individual receiving
compensation from any facility or service operating under contract to the
Board.
   (B)   The term of office of each member of this Board shall be for four
years; provided, however, that of those members first appointed, two shall be
appointed for a term of two years, two for a term of three years and three for
a term of four years. All terms shall be measured from the first day of the
year of appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired time in a
similar manner as original appointments.
   (C)   Any member of the Board may be removed by the appointing officer for
neglect of duty, misconduct or malfeasance in office after being given a
written statement of the charges and an opportunity to be heard thereon.
(1993 Code, § 32.02) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.03 DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties otherwise set out herein, the Mental Health Board
shall be held responsible to control any agencies being subsidized or receiving
any funds of the county for any purpose covered by this act in the following
respects:
   (A)   By annually reviewing and either approving or disapproving budget of
proposed programs of subsidized agencies;
   (B)   By periodically reviewing the budget and activities of all agencies
within the county using county funds for these purposes and the agencies shall
be charged with the responsibility of mailing to each member of the Board an
annual report and budget which shall be submitted before the September meeting
of the Board from year to year. A majority vote of the members of the Board
shall be required for approval of any budget submitted by any agency;
   (C)   By maintaining complete control over the entire operation of any
organization or activity which is funded entirely by the county; and
   (D)   By withholding funds of the county from any agency which is not
operating according to the scope of the annual approved budget and not having
received permission of this Board to change the program.
   (E)   Review and evaluate community mental health services and facilities,
including services and facilities for the treatment of alcoholism, drug
addition, developmental disabilities, and intellectual disabilities;
   (F)   Submit to the appointing officer and the members of the governing body
a written plan for a program of community mental health services and facilities
for persons with mental illness, a developmental disability, or a substance
abuse disorder. Such plan shall be for the ensuing 12-month period. In
addition, a plan shall be developed for the ensuing three-year period and such
plan shall be reviewed at the end of every 12-month period and shall be
modified as deemed advisable.
(1993 Code, § 32.03) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.04 METHODS OF EXPENDING TAX MONEY.
   The Mental Health Board shall function as the agency of the county providing
service and shall have the authority to distribute county funds collected under
the applicable statutes, and in addition to the other dispersing powers as this
Board shall from time to time exercise it may pay any agency a predetermined
quarterly payment for services rendered in accordance with the approved budget
and program of the agency.
(1993 Code, § 32.04) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.05 COORDINATION.
   (A)   In order to provide the broadest possible mental health program within
the county, the Mental Health Board shall work with all outside groups
providing such services to help coordinate all programs and increase the
services available to county residents and prevent duplication of programs
except where necessary.
   (B)   The Board may establish a panel of consultants who will make
themselves available to assist in advising the Board on present or proposed
programs. The panel may include educators, religious leaders, professional
persons in law, mental health, medicine, science and community leaders, all of
whom may be interested in mental health problems and necessary programs.
   (C)   The Board may review and comment on all applications for grants by any
person, corporation, or governmental unit providing services within the
geographical area of the Board which provides mental health facilities and
services, including services for the person with a mental illness, a
developmental disability, or a substance abuse disorder.
(1993 Code, § 32.05) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.06 AUTHORITY.
   The Mental Health Board shall be solely responsible for any and all mental
health programs in the county as are supported by tax monies of the county and
shall operate with the legal advice of the State’s Attorney and the approval of
the County Board for any and all tax levies.
(1993 Code, § 32.06) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.07 SCOPE OF PROGRAM.
   The tax supported mental health programs under the supervision of the Mental
Health Board shall be made available to all residents in the county.
(1993 Code, § 32.07) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.08 FEES.
   Any and all agencies receiving partial support from county tax funds may
operate on the scale of fees as may be from time to time approved by the Mental
Health Board.
(1993 Code, § 32.08) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.09 BOARD EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Mental Health Board shall be empowered to pay any postage,
printing, secretarial and other necessary expenses of its operation from monies
as are levied.
   (B)   Members of the Mental Health Board shall receive travel expenses to
and from meetings of the Board and shall be reimbursed for any expenses
incurred in the performance of the Board.
(1993 Code, § 32.09) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.10 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Chairperson of the Mental Health Board or any two members thereof shall
be empowered to call any special meeting by serving written notice upon each
member of the Board not less than ten days prior to the meeting time, provided
the notice shall inform all members of the date, place, time and purpose of the
special meeting that is called.
(1993 Code, § 32.10) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
§ 32.11 APPOINTMENTS MADE BY CHAIRPERSON.
   Appointments are to be made by the Chairperson with the approval of the
County Board. At least one member of the County Board shall be a member of the
Community Mental Health Board.
(1993 Code, § 32.11) (Ord. passed 12-20-1967)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS.
   (A)   The County Board of Health shall be established consisting of all of
the members of the Madison County Board.
   (B)   The powers of the Board of Health shall be those authorized by 55 ILCS
5/5-25001 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   In accordance with “An Act relating to the care and treatment by
counties of persons afflicted with tuberculosis and providing the means
therefor,” 55 ILCS 5/5-23002(b), as amended, formerly Ill. Rev. Stat., Ch. 34,
Par. 5-23002(b), as amended, the following action is hereby taken:
      (1)   The Tuberculosis Sanitarium and Board of Directors are abolished
and the employees, records, assets and liabilities of the Tuberculosis
Sanitarium and Board of Directors are transferred to and assumed by the newly
created Board of Health; and
      (2)   A tax may be imposed by the County Board up to the maximum rate of
7.5 cents per $100 of assessed valuation.
(1993 Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 94-10, passed 8-17-1994)
§ 32.26 ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The Board of Health shall be advised by a Board of Health Advisory Committee
which shall consist of at least ten members appointed by the Chairperson of the
County Board with the approval of the County Board for terms of three years;
except that of the first appointees, at least four shall serve for three years,
at least four shall serve for two years and at least two shall serve for one
year. At least one member of the Advisory Committee shall be a physician
licensed in the state to practice medicine in all its branches, at least one
shall be a dentist licensed in the state and one shall be a nurse licensed in
the state. All members shall be chosen for their special fitness for membership
on the Advisory Committee.
(1993 Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 94-10, passed 8-17-1994; Ord. 95-02, passed 3-15-
1995)
§ 32.27 CONTINUANCE OF BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The Board of Health created by this subchapter shall continue in effect
until one of the following events:
   (A)   The effective date in an ordinance of the Madison County Board
abolishing the Board of Health; or
   (B)   The effective date of any amendment to the Illinois Compiled Statutes,
or valid state rules or regulations that attempt to reconstitute the Board of
Health in any manner other than consisting of all the members of the County
Board.
(1993 Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 94-10, passed 8-17-1994)
§ 32.28 DUTIES OF CHAIRPERSON OF THE COUNTY BOARD.
   The Chairperson of the County Board shall undertake the following action:
   (A)   Appoint the members of the Advisory Committee to the Board of Health
in accord with §
32.26 of this chapter;
   (B)   Schedule and call to order, at the earliest convenient opportunity,
the first meeting of the Board of Health for the purposes of organizing this
group; and
   (C)   Schedule and call to order the first meeting of the Advisory Committee
to the Board of Health for the purposes of organizing this group.
(1993 Code, § 32.23) (Ord. 94-10, passed 8-17-1994)
MERIT SYSTEM FOR SHERIFF’S CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF MERIT SYSTEM FOR SHERIFF’S CLASSIFIED PERSONNEL.
   (A)   There is created and adopted within the county a Merit Commission,
which will have the duty, pursuant to recognized merit principles of public
employment, of certification for employment and promotion, and, upon complaint
of the Sheriff as further described in this subchapter, to discipline or
discharge as the circumstances may warrant those personnel in the classified
service of the Sheriff.
   (B)   The Merit Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the
Sheriff with the approval of the majority of the members of the County Board.
   (C)   The members appointed shall serve for a term of six years.
   (D)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of a Commissioner, the Sheriff with
the approval of a majority of the members of the County Board, shall appoint a
suitable person to serve the unexpired portion of the Commissioner’s term. If
the Sheriff fails to appoint a person to fill a vacancy within 30 days, the
Chairperson of the County Board shall appoint a person to fill the unexpired
portion of the term with the approval of the majority of the members of the
County Board.
   (E)   No more than two Commissioners appointed may be affiliated with the
same political party.
   (F)   Any members of the Sheriff’s Merit Commission serving at the time of
the adoption of this subchapter, shall serve out the unexpired portions of
their respective terms and shall carry out their duties in accordance with this
subchapter.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.41 ORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The officers of the Merit Commission shall be the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary.
   (B)   All officers shall be elected by a simple majority vote of the Merit
Commission. The term of office of the officers shall be two years or until the
term of office as a member of the Commission shall expire, whichever period is
shorter.
      (1)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and shall perform all
duties required of him or her by these rules, regulations and procedures.
      (2)   The Vice-Chairperson shall preside at meetings in the absence or
disability of Chairperson.
      (3)   The Secretary shall keep the minutes and the records of the
Commission.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.42 OFFICE AND STAFF.
   The Commission shall maintain an office in Edwardsville, Illinois where its
staff assistants and clerks shall function and where its files and records
shall be maintained, the office space to be provided by the County Board.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.43 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held quarterly at its office.
Other meetings may be called as necessary by the Chairperson or upon the call
of two members of the Commission, The Chairperson must notify each of the
Commission members, specifying time and place of the meeting at least three
days prior to the meeting. Commission meetings shall be conducted under
Robert’s Rules of Order. All provisions of the State Open Meetings Act, being 5
ILCS 120/1 et seq., applicable to the Merit Commission shall be complied with.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.44 QUORUM.
   At meetings, two members of the Commission shall normally constitute a
quorum and shall conduct the business of the Commission; however, disciplinary
actions by the Merit Commission and hearings pursuant to Merit Commission
procedures, will require that all three Commissioners must be notified and in
attendance or have an opportunity to participate.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.45 VOTING.
   On all matters brought before the Commission, the concurrence of at least
two members of the Commission shall be necessary for a decision and the action
of the majority shall be the act of the Commission, provided, however, that
changes in rules, regulations and procedures of the Commission require all
three members to be in attendance or have the opportunity to let their views be
known in writing prior to any adoption.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.46 MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   The Commission shall:
   (A)   Maintain personnel records and files as are necessary to execute its
responsibilities. These records and files shall be confidential, except that
any member of this Department shall be permitted, on request, to examine his or
her graded, written examinations and efficiency reports and, pursuant to
applicable state and federal laws, employees will have the opportunity to
examine personnel files pertaining to them;
   (B)   Keep and maintain the minutes of all meetings and report the decision
rendered to appropriate parties;
   (C)   Carefully compile and maintain a transcript of all disciplinary
procedures;
   (D)   Keep and maintain all other records and files necessary to the proper
administration and operation of the Commission’s business, including any
information required for compliance with requests of the County Board, for
reports of activity; and
   (E)   Keep and maintain all reports made to the Commission by the Sheriff
pertaining to appointments, permanent or temporary, all promotions,
suspensions, resignations or vacancies from any cause, and the annual
efficiency reports for each person covered by the merit system provided to the
Merit Commission by the Sheriff. The Commission shall also keep all letters of
commendation, academic achievements and reprimands and such other reports as
the Commission may reasonably receive from the Sheriff pursuant to state’s
statutes.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.47 RULES, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES; ADOPTION AND CHANGES.
   The Commission shall adopt and promulgate appropriate rules, regulations and
procedures necessary for the discharge of its duties, after consideration and a
meeting of the full Commission, Thereafter, changes in the rules, regulations
and procedures may be made by the Commission after the Sheriff and County Board
has been afforded the opportunity of reviewing proposed changes and comments
formally thereon.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.48 RANKS OF CLASSIFICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATION.
   For the purpose of the administration and operation of the merit system, the
ranks of classifications which will require certification of the Merit
Commission for appointment and promotion may be:
   (A)   Classified service - sworn.
      (1)   Captain;
      (2)   Lieutenant;
      (3)   Sergeant;
      (4)   Deputy Sheriff II;
      (5)   Deputy Sheriff I; and
      (6)   Probationary Deputy Sheriff.
   (B)   Classified service - unsworn.
      (1)   Captain;
      (2)   Lieutenant;
      (3)   Sergeant;
      (4)   Jail Officer II;
      (5)   Jail Officer;
      (6)   Probationary Jail Officer; and
      (7)   Court Security Officer.
   (C)   Classified service - technical.
      (1)   Jail Technician II;
      (2)   Jail Technician I;
      (3)   Communications Officer II;
      (4)   Communications Officer II; and
      (5)   Administrator of Business Affairs.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.49 POSITIONS; CLASSIFIED SERVICE.
   (A)   The Merit Commission shall establish job descriptions and minimum
standards for each rank of classification and appointment and promotional
examinations will include assessment of the applicant’s suitability based
thereon.
   (B)   Personnel appointed to positions of Chief Deputy Sheriff, Under
Sheriff, County Administrator, Director of Operations or Administrative
Assistant by the Sheriff are exempt from the jurisdiction of the Merit
Commission and may be assigned a temporary rank by the Sheriff for the term of
their appointment. Personnel appointed as Chief Deputy, Under Sheriff, County
Administrator, Director of Operations or Administrative Assistant are vested
with all authority granted to Deputy Sheriffs but may be removed from the
position with or without cause by the Sheriff and are without recourse to such
removal under this subchapter.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.50 ENTRY INTO MERIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The appointment of all personnel subject to the jurisdiction of the
Merit Commission shall be made by the Sheriff from those applicants who have
been certified by the Commission as being qualified for appointment. The
Commission may, by its rules and regulations, set forth the minimum
requirements for appointment to any position. The Commission may, by its rules
and regulations, set forth the procedure for examination which will include
investigations, examinations and any other method consistent with recognized
merit principles, which in the judgment of the Commission, is reasonable and
practical for any particular classification. Different examining procedures may
be set for the examinations in different classifications but all examinations
in the same classification shall be uniform.
   (B)   The Merit Commission may, by regulations, provide that applicants, who
have served with another Sheriff’s office, Police Department or any other law
enforcement agency, may be exempt from one or more of the minimum requirements
for appointment.
   (C)   Preference will be given in such appointments to persons who have
honorably served in the military or naval services in the United States.
   (D)   All initial appointees shall serve a probationary period of 12 months
during which time, they may be discharged at the will of the Sheriff.
   (E)   The Sheriff shall make appointments from those persons certified by
the Commission as qualified for appointment, however, the Sheriff may reject
any person so certified and shall notify the Commission, in writing, of such
rejection.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.51 PROMOTION.
   (A)   The Merit Commission shall certify to the Sheriff the names of
eligible persons who stand highest upon the promotional register for the rank
to which the position belongs, in accordance with the rules, regulations and
procedures of the Merit Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall make certification for promotion on the basis of
ascertained merit, seniority of service and physical and other qualifying
examinations as promulgated in the Commission rules, regulations and
procedures.
   (C)   The Sheriff shall appoint from the list of certified names from the
promotional register. However, if the Sheriff rejects all persons so certified,
he or she shall state his or her reason for such refusal in writing to the
Commission.
   (D)   All vacancies in the ranks of the classified service above the lowest
shall be filled by promotion except that the Merit Commission may by
regulation, provide that a former Sheriff may be appointed by a successor
Sheriff to any rank after he or she has been certified by the Commission or
that applicants who have served with another Sheriff’s office, a police
department or any other law enforcement agency, may be given credit for
purposes other than pay for time so served and may receive an initial
appointment to a rank above the lowest.
   (E)   Personnel appointed to the higher rank shall be on probation in such
higher rank for a period of 12 months. Such appointees may be demoted by the
Sheriff to their former rank at any time during the period of probation, if in
the opinion of the Sheriff, they have failed to demonstrate the ability and the
qualifications necessary to furnish satisfactory service and the Sheriff has
informed the Merit Commission of such findings.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.52 CERTIFICATION OF TENURE.
   After successfully completing the above-promotional procedure, the promoted
individual shall be certified as tenured at the appropriate position and rank
by the Commission.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.53 DISCIPLINARY MEASURES.
   (A)   Disciplinary measures for actions violating either the rules or
regulations of the Commission or the internal procedures of the Sheriff’s
office may be taken by the Sheriff. Such disciplinary measures may include
suspension of any certified person for reasonable periods, not exceeding a
cumulative 30 days in any 12-month period.
   (B)   The Commission, after a hearing upon charges filed pursuant to this
subchapter, and the finding of guilty thereof, may order any of the following
disciplinary measures which, in the opinion of the Commission, the offense
merits:
      (1)   Suspension for a period not to exceed 180 days;
      (2)   Demotion; and/or
      (3)   Discharge and removal from the Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   If the charges against an accused person are not established by the
preponderance of evidence, that Commission shall make a finding of not guilty
and shall order that the person be reinstated and be paid his or her
compensation for the suspension period, if any, while awaiting the hearing. The
Sheriff shall take such action as may be ordered by the Commission.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.54 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Charges. In all cases where the Sheriff desires to discipline a
subordinate beyond the measures previously described, he or she shall file with
the Commission a written charge in quintuplicate, setting forth a plain and
concise statement of the fact upon which the charge is based and a specific
section or sections of the Sheriff’s Department rules, regulations, procedures
or policies, which the accused member is charged with violating.
   (B)   Hearing. The charges shall be heard by the Commission upon not less
than 14-days’ certified notice. Such notice shall be sent to the Sheriff and to
the accused.
   (C)   Representation by counsel. At such hearing, the accused certified
person shall be afforded full opportunity to be represented by counsel, and be
heard in his or her own defense and to produce proof in his or her defense.
   (D)   Commission representation. The Commission shall be represented by
counsel of its choosing.
   (E)   Sheriff representation. The Sheriff will be represented by the State’s
Attorney.
   (F)   Subpoena power. The Commission shall have the power to secure by a
subpoena with the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
books and papers in support of the charges and for the defense. Each member of
the Commission shall have the power to administer oaths.
   (G)   Procedures. The Commission shall establish by its rules and
regulations, procedures that will enable the Commission to conduct a fair and
impartial hearing on the charges, preserving the rights of all parties
involved.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.55 TESTIMONY AND PRODUCTION OF BOOKS AND PAPERS AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person who shall be served with a subpoena to appear and testify
are to produce books and papers, issued by the Merit Commission, or by any
member thereof, and who shall refuse or neglect to appear or to testify, or to
produce books and papers relevant to such an investigation as commanded in this
subpoena, shall be prosecuted under the provision of applicable state law.
   (B)   Every person who, having taken oath or made affirmation before a
member of the Commission, shall willfully swear or affirm falsehoods, shall be
guilty of perjury and upon conviction shall be prosecuted under the provisions
of applicable law.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.56 APPLICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW ACT.
   The provisions of the Administrative Review Act, being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et
seq., approved May 8, 1945, and all amendments and modifications thereof and
the rules adopted pursuant thereto, shall apply to and govern all proceedings
for the judicial review of any order of the Commission rendered pursuant to
this subchapter.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.57 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS.
   If any provision of this subchapter or any order of the Merit Commission is
violated by any person, regardless of whether that person’s employment is under
the jurisdiction of this act, the Commission may apply to the Circuit Court for
an injunction, or writ of mandamus or any other proper release. The State’s
Attorney of the county shall prosecute such action. If the State’s Attorney
shall refuse to prosecute the action, or fail to begin prosecution of such
action within 30 days after the date the Commission brings the matter to his or
her attention, the Commission may retain special counsel of its own choice to
prosecute such action.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.58 DEPARTMENT RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTIFIED PERSONNEL.
   Any member of the Sheriff’s Department who shall be guilty of any of the
following shall be subject to disciplinary action by the Sheriff and the Merit
Commission:
   (A)   Violate any law or statute of the United States or this state;
   (B)   Violate any ordinance of the county or municipal government;
   (C)   Violate any of the general orders, special orders, rules, regulations
or policies of the Sheriff’s Department which are not inconsistent with state
law or the rules, regulations and procedures of the Merit Commission; or
   (D)   Engage in any activity which is violative of the office or position
held by the certified person.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.59 POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS.
   All appointments, promotions and actions taken under authority of this
subchapter shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter
and the rules and regulations of the Merit Commission without consideration of
the political affiliation of any person.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.60 PRIOR APPOINTMENTS/ CERTIFICATIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter to the contrary, any person
appointed or certified pursuant to the Merit System in effect before the
effective date of this subchapter shall remain under the jurisdiction of the
Commission.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.61 REMOVAL OF MERIT COMMISSIONER.
   No member of a Merit Commission shall be removed except for palpable
incompetence or malfeasance in office upon written charges filed by or at the
direction of the Sheriff or the County Board and heard before the Board of
Hearings provided for in this section. The Chief Judge for the judicial circuit
in which the county is situated and the two Circuit Judges who have longest
held judicial office shall constitute the Board of Hearing. If two or more
Circuit Judges have held judicial office for the same longest or next longest
length of time, choice among those Circuit Judges shall be made by lot. If
there are only two Circuit Judges in the circuit embracing the county, then
those two Judges shall select the third member of the Board of Hearing from
among the Circuit Judges in contiguous circuits. The Board of Hearings shall
hear and determine the charges and its findings shall be final. If the charges
are sustained, the member of the Commission so charged shall be forthwith
removed from office by the Board of Hearings and the Sheriff with the approval
of a majority of the members of the County Board shall thereupon proceed to
fill the vacancy created by such removal. In any proceeding provided for in
this section, the Board of Hearings and each member thereof shall have power to
administer oaths and to compel by subpoena the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of books and papers.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
§ 32.62 APPROPRIATIONS.
   A sufficient sum of money shall be provided each year by the County Board to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter. The County Board may establish per
diem compensation for members of the Commission and shall allow reimbursement
for reasonable and necessary expenses.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012)
CHAPTER 33: LABOR RELATIONS
   To answer questions regarding parties represented by a labor union,
generally refer to the Public Employee Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.
   Ord. 81-3 sets forth provisions regarding labor relations. The decision not
to include Ord. 81-3 within this current code should not be looked upon as an
implied repeal of this material. As such the contents of Ord. 81-3 remain in
full force and effect, unless explicitly repealed by subsequent ordinances or
by the repealer ordinance of this code.
   All labor relations resolutions are adopted by reference.
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
   
34.01   Purchases in excess of $30,000
   
34.02   Purchases greater than $5,000 and up to $30,000
   
34.03   Purchases greater than $1,000 and up to $5,000
   
34.04   Purchases of $1,000 or less
   
34.05   Noncompetitive purchases
   
34.06   Emergency purchases
   
34.07   Director of Purchasing
   
34.08   Miscellaneous
§ 34.01 PURCHASES IN EXCESS OF $30,000.
   (A)   Any purchase of services, materials, equipment, supplies in excess of
$30,000, other than professional services, shall be contracted for by a
contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after adequate public notice of
invitation for bids. Public notice shall be given within a reasonable time
frame of no less than ten calendar days prior to public bid opening. Such
notice will be given by advertisement published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county and internet posting on the County Purchasing
Department website. The public notice shall state the place, date, and time of
bid opening. After formal award of a bid, the resolution shall be posted on
County Purchasing website.
   (B)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the County Board shall
take into consideration the qualities of the articles supplied; their
conformity with the specifications; their suitability to the requirements of
the county; availability of support services; uniqueness of the service,
materials, equipment or supplies as it applies to networked, integrated
computer systems; compatibility to existing equipment; and the delivery terms.
The County Board may also take into consideration whether a bidder is a private
enterprise or a state-controlled enterprise and, notwithstanding any other
provision of this section or a lower bid by a state-controlled enterprise, may
let a contract to the lowest responsible bidder that is a private enterprise.
   (C)   Contracts in cooperation with the federal government, state government
or purchases of used equipment, purchases at auction or similar transactions
which by their very nature are not suitable to competitive bids, or purchases
pursuant to the State Governmental Joint Purchasing Act, being 30 ILCS 525/0.1
et seq., may be made accordingly without formal bids by the county, but will
otherwise meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The county may award a contract without advertising for bids in the
case of purchases and contracts, when individual orders do not exceed $35,000
for the use, purchase, delivery, movement or installation of data processing
equipment, software or services and telecommunications and inter-connect
equipment, software and services. Such contracts shall require the Purchasing
Department to obtain reasonable competition by written quotation for the
services, material, equipment or supplies being purchased. Award shall be made
to business offering lowest responsible quotation having met bid specification.
Adequate records to document the competition shall be maintained. No award
shall be made without prior appropriation and current amounts available in such
fund for payment and approval by the appropriate County Board Oversight
Committee and the County Finance and Government Operations Committee.
   (E)   All purchases in excess of $30,000 or $35,000 for purchases and
services outlined in division (D) above shall require approval of the County
Board. Upon the receipt of bids or quotes in all such cases, the County Board
shall have the final approval of the award of the contract. Such proposals
shall be brought to the County Board after review by the appropriate County
Board Oversight Committee and the Finance Government Operations Committee.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011; Ord. 2016-
04, passed - - ; Ord. 2020-06, passed - - )
§ 34.02 PURCHASES GREATER THAN $5,000 AND UP TO $30,000.
   Any purchase greater than $5,000 and up to $30,000 may be made by the
appropriate department head by having the Purchasing Director obtain adequate
and reasonable competition by written quotation for the services, materials,
equipment or supplies being purchased. Award shall be made to the business
offering the lowest responsible quotation having met bid specification.
Adequate records to document the competition shall be maintained. No award
shall be made without prior appropriation and current amounts available in such
fund for payment and prior approval of the appropriate County Board Oversight
Committee and the County Finance and Government Operations Committee.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011; Ord. 2020-
06, passed - - )
§ 34.03 PURCHASES GREATER THAN $1,000 AND UP TO $5,000.
   Any purchase greater than $1,000 and up to $5,000 may be made by the
appropriate department head having the Purchasing Director obtain three written
or oral quotes when possible for the services, materials, equipment or supplies
being purchased. Where it is not feasible to obtain three quotes, a decision
memo from Purchasing Director will be submitted to file. Award shall be made to
the business offering the lowest responsible quotation. Adequate records to
document the competition shall be maintained. No award shall be made without
prior appropriation and current amounts available in such fund for payment.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011; Ord. 2020-
06, passed - - )
§ 34.04 PURCHASES OF $1,000 OR LESS.
   Purchases of $1,000 or less may be made at the discretion of the Purchasing
Director and the department head.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011; Ord. 2020-
06, passed - - )
§ 34.05 NONCOMPETITIVE PURCHASES.
   (A)   A purchase may be awarded without competitive bidding when a
department head, with the approval of the Director of Purchasing, determines in
writing, after conducting in good faith effort by reviewing the available
sources, that the purchase by its very nature is not suitable to competitive
bids or proposals. Examples of purchases that may not be suitable for
competitive bids or proposals are as follows:
      (1)   There is only one source for the required supply, equipment,
service or construction item;
      (2)   A sole supplier’s item that is required for trial use or testing:
patented or proprietary items with only one manufacturer, contractor or only
one dealer in the area;
      (3)   Used equipment;
      (4)   Purchases at auction; and
      (5)   Certain maintenance contracts which are limited to only one source
for the highest qualified provider.
   (B)   While noncompetitive purchases may not require formal or informal
bidding, they shall require prior approval and oversight as described in §§
34.01,
34.02,
34.03 and
34.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 34.06 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a department head may
enter into an emergency contract for the procurement of services, materials,
equipment and supplies when there exists a threat to public health, welfare or
safety, or to prevent or minimize serious disruption of government service;
provided that such emergency procurements shall be made with such competition
as is practicable under the circumstances. A written determination of the basis
of the emergency and for the selection of the particular contractor shall be
included in the contract file and shall be presented to the appropriate County
Board Oversight Committee and the Finance Government Operations Committee. For
all emergency procurements of $30,000 or more, the appropriate County Board
Oversight Committee and the Finance Government Operations Committee shall
review the actions taken and shall report to the County Board regarding such
purchases. In addition, the department head shall notify the appropriate
Oversight Committee Chair, the Director of Purchasing, or the County
Administrator prior to entering into such contract if practicable under the
circumstances; and if no such prior notification is possible, then within 24
hours after the award of such contract.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011; Ord. 2020-
06, passed - - )
§ 34.07 DIRECTOR OF PURCHASING.
   (A)   The Director of Purchasing shall serve as the principal public
purchasing official for the county, and shall be responsible for the
procurement of services, materials, equipment, supplies and construction in
accordance with this chapter. The Purchasing Director shall report to the
County Administrator, the Finance Government Operations Committee and shall
coordinate and cooperate with all County Board committees, county department
heads and all elected officials. Consistent with this chapter and with the
approval of the Finance Government Operations Committee, the Purchasing
Director may adopt purchasing guidelines and regulations related to the
execution of the duties of this position.
   (B)   The purchasing agent shall assist the Purchasing Director in the
performance of the Director’s duties and the Director may designate the agent
to perform any of the Director’s duties to expedite and fulfill the purposes of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011)
§ 34.08 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Purchases by the County Highway Engineer shall be in accordance with
this chapter, except that such purchases shall be reported to and approved by
the County Board Transportation Committee, and where appropriate under
ordinance forwarded to the County Board for report or approval.
   (B)   This subchapter requires that all parties involved in the procurement,
negotiation, performance or administration of any county contracts act in good
faith. Contract requirements shall not be artificially divided so as to avoid
the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to comply with all applicable federal
and state purchasing requirements, including the Illinois Counties Code, being
55 ILCS 5/. The county acknowledges that in the letting of a particular
contract the procedures may vary depending upon the requirements of the federal
or state funding source, the nature of the purchase or other requirements. This
could include, but is not limited to, the State Joint Purchasing Act, the
Architectural, Engineering and Land Surveying Qualifications Based Selection
Act, 30 ILCS 535/1and any other applicable law, rule or regulation. Whenever
permitted by law, the requirements of this chapter shall provide the minimum
standards for the letting of contracts by the county. Nothing in this chapter
shall prevent any county agency from complying with the terms and conditions of
any grant, gift, bequest or co-operative purchasing agreement that is otherwise
consistent with the law.
   (D)   It is recognized that certain officers/agencies may have independent
statutory authority to purchase their own services, materials equipment and
supplies. These officers/agencies are encouraged to participate in the county
purchasing program.
   (E)   Any actual or prospective bidder may appeal a decision of the Director
of Purchasing by the filing of a timely, written protest to the Director of
Purchasing stating the basis of the appeal. Such appeal shall be reviewed by
the Chairperson of County Finance and Government Operations Committee, the
County Administrator and the Purchasing Director (and, where applicable, the
appropriate county official), whose decision shall be final.
   (F)   Purchases by the Facilities Department Administrator and the SSA#1
Superintendent shall be in accordance with this chapter, except that such
purchases less than $5,000 shall be reported to and approved by the County
Board Facilities and SSA#1 Committees, and where appropriate under ordinance
forwarded to the County Board for report or approval.
   (G)   Grant purchases are to follow the Office of Management and Budgets
(OMB) Uniform Guidance Procurement Standards outlined in 2 CFR Part 200.318 to
200.326 and Appendix ii of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).
(Ord. 2006-013, passed 11-15-2006; Ord. 2011-02, passed 3-16-2011; Ord. 2020-
06, passed - - )
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
   Certain ordinances set forth taxation provisions for the county. The
decision not to include such ordinances in this current code should not be
looked upon as an implied repeal of this material. As such, the contents of
such ordinances remain in full force and effect, unless explicitly repealed by
subsequent ordinances or by the repealer ordinance of this code. In general,
questions regarding this section should be directed to the appropriate county
agency or to state statutes.
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Establishment
   
36.03   Limitations
   
36.04   Compensation
   
36.05   Functions
   
36.06   Oath
   
36.07   Office
   
36.08   Director
   
36.09   Responsibilities of Director
   
36.10   Acting Director
   
36.11   Emergency action
   
36.12   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
36.13   Purchases and expenditures
   
36.14   Reimbursement by the state or federal government
   
36.15   Appropriation; levy of taxes
   
36.16   County disaster emergencies
   
36.17   Authority to accept services, gifts, grants or loans
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The staff assistant to the head of a local government
subdivision with the duty of carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot hostile military or paramilitary
actions, or acts of domestic terrorism.
   DISASTER OPERATIONS. The functions created in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter to be performed by state or local political subdivisions to
alleviate the effects of disaster.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of the state and political subdivisions to
develop, plan, analyze, conduct provide, implement and maintain programs for
disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The consistent nationwide approach
developed and administered in accordance with Homeland Security Presidential
Directive-5 for federal, state, local and tribal governments and private-sector
and non-governmental organizations to work together effectively and
efficiently, to prepare for, prevent, respond to and recover from domestic
incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Any county, city, village or unincorporated town.
   UNITED STATES. The several states, the District of Columbia and the Panama
Canal Zone.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created an Office of Emergency Management Agency to
develop, plan, analyze, conduct provide, implement and maintain programs for
disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery in accordance with the
State Emergency Management Agency Act, being 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq., and the
National Incident Management System (NIMS).
   (B)   This agency will supersede the Civil Defense Agency and Emergency
Services and Disaster Agency heretofore authorized, and shall be known as the
Madison County Emergency Management Agency (thereinafter EMA).
   (C)   The County EMA shall consist of a Director and other administrative
personnel as may be selected by the Director with the approval of the County
Board, and may make such expenditures within the, appropriation therefor as may
be necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   The County EMA shall have jurisdiction over and serve the entire
county. However, it shall not have jurisdiction within a municipality having
its own emergency services and disaster agency organization: provided that such
organization is duly accredited by the County EMA in the manner provided by
Illinois Administrative Code.
(1993 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.03 LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:
   (A)   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute,
except that actions otherwise authorized by this chapter or other laws may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety;
   (B)   Interfere with dissemination of news or comment of public affairs; but
any communications facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instruction in connection with a disaster emergency;
   (C)   Affect the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting forces, units of the armed forces of the United States, or of any
person thereof, when on active duty; but the County Emergency Operations Plan
shall place reliance upon the forces available for performance of functions
related to disaster emergencies; and
   (D)   Limit, modify or abridge the authority of the County Board
Chairperson, the committees and the County Board to exercise any other powers
vested in them under the Constitution, statutes or common law of this state and
county, independent of or in conjunction with any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.04 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the EMA who are paid employees or officers of the county, if
called for training by the State Director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held.
Members who are not county employees or officers shall not receive any
compensation for training by the County Board or the County EMA.
(1993 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.05 FUNCTIONS.
   The County EMA shall:
   (A)   Perform such emergency management and disaster operations;
   (B)   Functions within the county as shall be prescribed in and by the State
Emergency Operations Plan and program prepared by the Governor, and any orders,
rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and in addition
shall perform any duties outside the corporate limits as may be required
pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision,
municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the State
Emergency Management Agency Act;
   (C)   Execute and enforce such orders, rules and regulations as may be made
by the Governor under authority of the State Emergency Management Agency Act.
The County EMA shall have available for inspection at its office all orders,
rules and regulations made by the Governor, or under his or her authority, as
shall be furnished by the State Emergency Management Agency;
   (D)   Prepare and keep current an emergency operations plan for the county,
said plan to be in compliance with the NIMS which is hereby adopted as the
comprehensive approach to incident management for all hazards across the
county;
   (E)   Interrelate with business, labor, industry, agriculture, civic and
volunteer organizations and community leaders in the development of such a
plan;
   (F)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the organization of an incident command system,
or the emergency responsibilities of all local departments and offices and of
the disaster chain of command;
   (G)   Cooperate with the emergency services and disaster operations of
municipalities within the county;
   (H)   Establish, train and maintain such volunteer EMA units as may be
deemed necessary by the Director or the County Board to place the county in a
position to promptly and effectively respond to disaster;
   (I)   Initiate and coordinate planning for the establishment of an emergency
operations center;
   (J)   Prepare, for issuance by the Board Chairperson and County Board,
resolutions, proclamations and regulations as necessary or appropriate in
coping with disaster;
   (K)   Cooperate with federal and state governments and any public or private
agency or entity in achieving any purpose of this chapter and in implementing
programs for disaster mitigation, preparation, response and recovery; and
   (L)   Do all other things necessary, incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.06 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the County EMA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filled with the Coordinator Director.
      “I                             , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution
of the United States territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both
public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take the
obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and
that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to
enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor
have I been a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Madison County
EMA organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence.”
(1993 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.07 OFFICE.
   The Chairperson of the County Board is authorized to designate space in the
county building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Board for the
County EMA organization as its office.
(1993 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.08 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of the County EMA shall be appointed in December by the
Chairperson of the County Board, with confirmation by the Board. The Director
shall be thoroughly versed and qualified by reason of experience or other
proper training and his or her term of office shall be for a period of one year
or as determined at the discretion of the Board and until his or her successor
is appointed, confirmed and qualified. He or she shall receive a salary
consistent with other county department heads and to be determined at the
discretion of the Board and such expenses that are compatible with the other
county department heads and his or her duties and approved by the Board.
   (B)   The Director of the County EMA may be removed from office by the Board
for incompetence, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. In any procedure to
remove the Director of the County EMA from office, a petition shall be filed by
the EMA Advisory or Public Safety Committee with the Board, naming such officer
as defendant and setting forth the particular facts upon which the request for
removal is based. Normal county personnel grievance procedures will be
available and exercised in either dismissing the charges against the Director
of EMA or removing him or her from office.
(1993 Code, § 36.06) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.09 RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the County EMA as prescribed in and
by the state emergency management program subject to the direction and control
of the Chairperson of the County Board. He or she shall coordinate the
activities of all organizations for emergency management and disaster
operations within the county and shall maintain liaison and cooperate with the
emergency services and disaster agencies and emergency management organizations
or municipalities within the county, other counties and cities, and of the
federal and state government.
(1993 Code, § 36.07) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.10 ACTING DIRECTOR.
   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve as the
Director, the Chairperson of the County Board, Assistant Deputy EMA Director,
or any person designated by the Chairperson, shall be and act as Director until
a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 36.08) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.11 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual terrorist attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the
state of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action
or from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the County EMA
to cooperate fully with the State Emergency Management Agency and with the
Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. The EMA
Director will perform any and all actions necessary for the preservation of
life and property, and shall have any and all supplies, equipment and personnel
of the county at his or her disposal.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.12 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The EMA Director may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other counties or
political subdivisions of the state, but no agreement shall be effective until
it has been approved by the Chairperson of the County Board and by the State
Director of EMA.
(1993 Code, § 36.11) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.13 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The County Board may authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to
place the county in a position to combat effectively any disaster and to
protect the public health and safety, protect property and provide emergency
assistance to victims in the case of such disaster.
   (B)   In the event of terrorist attack or any other human-made or natural
disaster, the County Director of EMA is authorized, on behalf of the county, to
procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
such purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory
procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to county
contracts or obligations, as authorized by state law, provided, if feasible,
that the Chairperson of the Board or his or her designated representative be
informed within 24 hours, or sooner, of actions taken or proposed, and follow
any directions, guidelines or restrictions offered.
(1993 Code, § 36.12) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.14 REIMBURSEMENT BY THE STATE OR FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
   The County Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state or federal government in the county for expenses
incident to training members of EMA prescribed by the State Director if EMA and
any other reimbursement by the state incident to EMA activities as provided by
law.
(1993 Code, § 36.13) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.15 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The County Board may make appropriation from the County General Fund for EMA
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for EMA
purposes only, a tax not to exceed $0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all
taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by state law.
However, the amount collectable under the levy shall in no event exceed $0.25
per capita.
(1993 Code, § 36.14) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.16 COUNTY DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A county disaster or emergency may be declared only by the Chairperson
of the County Board. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in
excess of seven days except by or with the consent of the Board. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster emergency
shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with
the County Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a county disaster emergency is to
activate the response and recovery aspects of the County Emergency Operations
Plan and to authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   During a county disaster emergency, the Board Chairperson may suspend
the provisions of any county resolution prescribing procedures for the conduct
of county business, or the orders, rules and regulations of any county agency,
if strict compliance with the provisions of any resolution, order, rule or
regulation would in any way prevent, hinder or delay necessary action in coping
with the emergency, as authorized by the State Emergency Management Agency Act;
provided that, if the County Board meets at such time, the Board Chairperson
shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(1993 Code, § 36.15) (Ord. passed 3-16-1977; Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
§ 36.17 AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS.
   Whenever the federal or state governments or any agency or officer thereof
or whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to county services,
equipment supplies, materials or funds by way of gift or grant for purposes of
emergency management and disaster operations, the county, acting through the
County Board, may authorize any officer of the county to receive such services,
equipment supplies, materials or funds on behalf of the county.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-16-2009)
CHAPTER 37: COUNTY FEES, FUNDS AND POLICIES
Section
Fees
   
37.01   Adopted by reference
County Policies
   
37.15   Identity protection policy
   
37.16   Reimbursement for the cost of medical and hospital services provided to
prisoners in the custody of the County Sheriff
   
37.17   Applicant fee policies
   
37.18   Sale and possession of electronic cigarettes and any alternative
nicotine products
Funds
   
37.30   Animal population control fund
 
   
37.99   Penalty
FEES
§ 37.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county fee schedule, copies of which are on file in the county offices,
is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if
set out at length herein.
COUNTY POLICIES
§ 37.15 IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual in the employ of Madison County government.
      PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY. To intentionally communicate or
otherwise intentionally make available to the general public.
   (B)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   No officer or employee of the county shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual’s
Social Security number;
         (b)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any card
required for the individual to access products or services provided by the
person or entity;
         (c)   Require an individual to transmit his or her Social Security
number over the internet, unless the connection is secure or the Social
Security number is encrypted; or
         (d)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any materials
that are mailed to the individual, through the United States postal service,
any private mail service, electronic mail or any similar method of delivery,
unless state or federal law requires the Social Security number to be on the
document to be mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the
contrary, Social Security numbers may be included in applications and forms
sent by mail, including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection
with the administration of the Unemployment Insurance Act, being 820 ILCS 405/
100 et seq., any material mailed in connection with any tax administered by the
Department of Revenue, and documents sent as part of an application or
enrollment process or to establish, amend or terminate an account, contract or
policy or to confirm the accuracy of the Social Security number. A Social
Security number that may permissibly be mailed under this section may not be
printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer that does not
require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the envelope having
been opened.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this policy no officer or employee
of the county shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Collect, use or disclose a Social Security number from an
individual, unless:
            1.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules or
regulations, or the collection, use or disclosure of the Social Security number
is otherwise necessary for the performance of that agency’s duties and
responsibilities;
            2.   The need and purpose for the Social Security number is
documented before collection of the Social Security number; and
            3.   The Social Security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose.
         (b)   Require an individual to use his or her Social Security number
to access an internet website; and
         (c)   Use the Social Security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
      (3)   The prohibitions in division (B)(2) above do not apply in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   The disclosure of Social Security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors or subcontractors of the county or disclosure to another
governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors or subcontractors if
disclosure is necessary in order for the entity to perform its duties and
responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or subcontractor, prior to
such disclosure, the officer or employee of the county must first receive from
the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the contractor’s or subcontractors
policy that sets forth how the requirements imposed under this policy on the
county to protect an individual’s Social Security number will be achieved;
         (b)   The disclosure of Social Security numbers pursuant to a court
order, warrant or subpoena;
         (c)   The collection, use or disclosure of Social Security numbers in
order to ensure the safety of: county employees, persons committed to
correctional facilities, local jails and other law enforcement facilities or
retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a
county facility;
         (d)   The collection, use or disclosure of Social Security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes;
         (e)   The disclosure of Social Security numbers by a state agency to
any entity for the collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt
or to a governmental agency to assist with an investigation or the prevention
of fraud; and
         (f)   The collection or use of Social Security numbers to investigate
or prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the Federal Fair Credit
Reporting Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq., to undertake any permissible
purpose that is enumerated under the Federal Gramm Leach Bliley Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 6980 et seq., or to locate a missing person, a lost relative or a
person who is due a benefit such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed property
benefit.
      (4)   Any standards of the county for the collection, use or disclosure
of Social Security numbers that are stricter than the standards under this
policy with respect to the protection of those Social Security numbers, then,
in the event of any conflict with the provisions of this policy, the stricter
standards adopted by the county shall control.
   (C)   Public inspection and copying of documents. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this policy to the contrary, all officers and employees of the
county must comply with the provisions of any other state law with respect to
allowing the public inspection and copying of information or documents
containing all or any portion of an individual’s Social Security number. All
officers and employees of the county must redact Social Security numbers from
the information or documents before allowing the public inspection or copying
of the information or documents.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   This policy does not apply to the collection, use or disclosure of
a Social Security number as required by state or federal law, rule or
regulation.
      (2)   This policy does not apply to documents that recorded with a County
Recorder or required to be open to the public under any state or federal law,
rule or regulation, applicable case law, Supreme Court rule or the Constitution
of the State of Illinois. Notwithstanding this division (D), County Recorders
must comply with division (G) below of this policy.
   (E)   Compliance with federal law. If a federal law takes effect requiring
any federal agency to establish a national unique patient health identifier
program, the county shall follow that law.
   (F)   Embedded Social Security numbers. Beginning December 31, 2009, no
officer or employee of the county may encode, or embed a Social Security
number, in or on a card or document, including, but not limited to, using a bar
code, chip, magnetic strip, RFID technology or other technology, in place of
removing the Social Security number as required by this policy.
   (G)   Identity protection requirements.
      (1)   All officers, employees and agents of the county identified as
having access to Social Security numbers in the course of performing their
duties shall be trained to protect the confidentiality of Social Security
numbers. Training shall include instructions on the proper handling of
information that contains Social Security numbers from the time of collection
through the destruction of the information.
      (2)   Only employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain Social Security numbers have access to such information
or documents.
      (3)   Social Security numbers requested from an individual shall be
provided in a manner that makes the Social Security number easily redacted if
required to be released as part of a public records request.
      (4)   When collecting a Social Security number or upon request by the
individual, a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the county is
collecting and using the Social Security number shall be provided.
      (5)   The county shall advise its employees of the existence of the
policy and make a copy of the policy available to each employee, and shall also
make this privacy policy available to any member of the public, upon request.
If the county amends this privacy policy, then the county shall also advise its
employees of the existence of the amended policy and make a copy of the amended
policy available to each employee.
   (H)   Judicial Branch Circuit Clerk. The Judicial Branch and the Circuit
Clerk are not subject to the provisions of this Act, except that the Supreme
Court shall, under its rulemaking authority or by administrative order, adopt
requirements applicable to the Judicial Branch, including Clerks of the Circuit
Court, regulating the disclosure of Social Security numbers consistent with the
intent of this Act and the unique circumstances relevant in the judicial
process.
   (I)   Supersede. This policy does not supersede any more restrictive law,
rule or regulation regarding the collection, use or disclosure of Social
Security numbers.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 4-20-2011) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.16 REIMBURSEMENT FOR THE COST OF MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL SERVICES PROVIDED TO
PRISONERS IN THE CUSTODY OF THE COUNTY SHERIFF.
   (A)   Pursuant to 730 ILCS 125/17, reimbursement by the county for the cost
of hospital and/or physician services provided to inmates in the custody of the
County Sheriff shall be set at the current medical assistance rate pursuant to
the State Department of Public Aid rate.
   (B)   Should the State Department of Public Aid rate for medical assistance
be changed, modified or amended at a future date, upon implementation of said
change, modification or amendment by the Department of Public Aid, the same
rate for medical assistance shall be applicable in the county for the cost of
hospital and/or physician services provided to inmates in the custody of the
County Sheriff.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding now
pending in any court or any rights accrued or liability incurred or any cause
or causes of actions accrued or existing under any prior resolution or
ordinance.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 9-21-2005)
§ 37.17 APPLICATION FEE POLICIES.
   (A)   Persons or business entities licensed or permitted by any agency in
Madison County Government (or its branches) who are more than 60 days behind in
billing or owe licensing fees to any other Madison County entity will be denied
licensure, licensure extension, renewal or permitting applications on the basis
of that debt. Once paid in full or a suitable payment plan is approved by
Madison County, such license or permit application will be accepted and face
the approval process just as if the debt had never been part of the record.
   (B)   An appeal of such administrative action will be to the appropriate
Madison County Board committee wherein that license would ordinarily be
approved. In an emergency, a temporary appeal can be made to the Chairman of
the Madison County Board until the next regular meeting of the appropriate
Madison County Board committee.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed - - )
§ 37.18 SALE AND POSSESSION OF ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES AND ANY ALTERNATE NICOTINE
PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS. Any product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
by any means.
      ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE. Any device that employs a battery or other
mechanism to heat a solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol
intended for inhalation or:
         (a)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended
to be used with or in a device or to refill the device, or
         (b)   Any solution or substance whether or not it contains nicotine,
intended for use in such a device as an electronic cigarette.
         (c)   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE includes, but is not limited to, any
electronic nicotine delivery system, vape pen, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe, electronic hookah, or similar  product or device,
and any components or parts that can be used to build the product or device.
   (B)   Sale or purchase or use by or to persons under 21 years prohibited.
      (1)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase, possess, operate,
distribute, transfer, or otherwise utilize any electronic cigarette or
alternative nicotine product.
      (2)   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute, or furnish any
electronic cigarette, or any alternative nicotine product, to any person under
21 years of age.
      (3)   No person under 21 years of age in the furtherance or facilitation
of obtaining any electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product shall
display or use a false or forged identification card, or transfer, alter, or
deface an identification card.
      (4)   Prior to selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing an
electronic cigarette or alternative nicotine product to another person, the
person selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing the electronic
cigarette or alternative nicotine product shall verify that the recipient
person is a minimum of 21 years of age by examining from identification from
any person that appears to be under 30 years of age. Said identification shall
be a government issued photographic identification card that establishes the
person to be of sufficient age in accordance with state and federal law.
      (5)   Noting in this section shall be interpreted so as to conflict with
410 ILCS 130/60(b), concerning persons under age 21 consuming medical cannabis
by vaping, where the patient vaping the medical cannabis is registered with the
Illinois Department of Public Health to use medical cannabis and complies as a
qualifying patient under 410 ILCS 130/60(b), as now or as hereafter amended.
   (C)   Penalties. Any person or entity violating any provision of this
section shall upon conviction be subject to the following:
      (1)   If a person under age 21 is found in violation of this section and
it is the first time conviction, he or she shall be subject to a fine of up to
$200 or may agree to take and satisfactorily complete an approved program which
includes information and education on the dangers of vaping and substances used
in such products and/or cessation to help stop using. If the offender chooses
to participate in the program, then it must be completed within 90 days of
disposition and satisfactory proof of completion must be provided to the Court
within that time frame. Failure on the part of the offender to complete the
program and provide satisfactory proof of completion shall cause the
disposition to be converted to a $200 fine.
      (2)   If a person under age 21 is found in violation of this section for
a second time within 36 months, he or she shall be subject to a fine of up to
$400 or may agree to completing a substance abuse assessment and successfully
complying with the assessment recommendations. If the offender chooses to
participate in the assessment and its subsequent recommendations, then the
assessment must be completed within 90 days of disposition and satisfactory
proof of completion must be provided to the Court within that time frame.
Failure on the part of the offender to complete the assessment and comply with
its recommendations and provide satisfactory proof of completion shall cause
the disposition to be converted to a $400 fine.
      (3)   If a person under the age of 21 is found in violation of this
section for a third or more time, he or she shall be subject to a fine of up to
$650 for each occurrence.
      (4)   Any business or entity found to be in violation of this section
shall be subject to a fine of up to $650.
   (D)   Severability of provision. Each section, paragraph, sentence clause
and provision of this section is severable, and if any provision is held
unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not affect the
remainder of the section, nor any part hereof, other than that part affected by
such decision.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-15-2020)
FUNDS
§ 37.30 COUNTY ANIMAL POPULATION CONTROL FUND.
   (A)   The Animal Population Control Fund is hereby established and all funds
collected beginning in fiscal year 2010, for the purpose of pet population
control, placed in the fund.
   (B)   The funds shall be used to spay, neuter, or sterilize adopted dogs or
cats or spay or neuter dogs or cats owned by low income county residents who
are eligible for the food stamp program.
   (C)   The funds may be distributed to the county humane organizations that
do pet adoptions.
      (1)   To qualify to receive these funds, each humane organization shall
submit an application applying for the use of the funds. An application must be
approved by the Public Safety Committee of the County Board.
      (2)   Provide a semi-annual report of how the money received is spent and
verifying the funds are used in accordance with this resolution.
(Ord. passed 6-19-2013)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally violates the prohibitions in §
37.15(B) is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 4-20-2011)
CHAPTER 38: 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Section
Surcharge
   
38.01   Imposition of surcharge subject to results of referendum
   
38.02   Definitions
   
38.03   Exemptions
   
38.04   Remittance and return
   
38.05   Overpayment; procedure to obtain credit
Emergency Telephone System Board
   
38.20   Board established
   
38.21   Composition of Board
   
38.22   Term of office
   
38.23   Powers and duties
   
38.24   Meetings
   
38.25   Removal of a Board member
   
38.26   Confidentiality
   
38.27   Annual budget and report
SURCHARGE
§ 38.01 IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE SUBJECT TO RESULTS OF REFERENDUM.
   A surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate of $0.65 per month per in-service
network connection, as hereinafter defined. A network connection shall not be
deemed to be in service where a subscriber’s account is uncollectible.
(1993 Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989; Ord. 89-12, passed 6-21-
1989)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NETWORK CONNECTION. The number of voice grade communication channels
directly between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier’s public
switched network without the intervention of any other telecommunications
carrier’s switched network which would be required to carry the subscriber’s
interpremises traffic.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. Shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in 65
ILCS 5/8-11-2.
(1993 Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The County Clerk shall provide any telecommunication carrier subject to the
surcharge with a certified list of those network connections assigned to the
county to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge. The certified list may be
revised by the county on 60-days’ prior written notice provided to the
telecommunication carriers.
(1993 Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.04 REMITTANCE AND RETURN.
   (A)   The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month following
the expiration of 90 days from the date the County Clerk certifies to any of
the telecommunication carriers who are subject to the surcharge that the
referendum referred to in §
38.01 has passed.
   (B)   In lieu of the telecommunication carriers imposing a 3% accounting and
collection charge on its subscribers as permitted under the Act, each
telecommunication carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to recover said
accounting and collection charge by deducting 3% from the amount of surcharge
otherwise due and owing the county prior to remittance under division (C)
below.
   (C)   Every telecommunication carrier shall remit to the County Treasurer
the amount of surcharge due and owing for each calendar month within 30 days
following expiration of each month to which the surcharge applies, net of any
network or other 911 or sophisticated 911 system charge then due the particular
telecommunication carrier as shown on an itemized bill, and the 3% accounting
and collection charge described in division (B) above.
   (D)   Simultaneously with the remittance described in division (C) of this
section, each telecommunication carrier shall make a return to the County
Treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies stating as follows:
      (1)   The name of the telecommunication carrier;
      (2)   The telecommunication carrier’s principal place of business;
      (3)   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies;
      (4)   The amount of surcharge due; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
(1993 Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.05 OVERPAYMENT; PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN CREDIT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any surcharge due, or to become due, under this chapter from the
telecommunication carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided that no
amounts erroneously paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited. Ninety-days’ prior notice shall be given to the
Emergency Telephone System Board on any credit against a surcharge due.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date
of such amount.
(1993 Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
§ 38.20 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   An Emergency Telephone System Board is hereby established in accordance with
50 ILCS 750/0.01 through 17 and shall be known as the Madison County Emergency
Telephone System Board, hereinafter referred to as the “Board.”
(1993 Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.21 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   The Board shall consist of not fewer than seven members, one of whom must be
a public member, and at least three of whom shall be representative of the 9-1-
1 public safety agencies, including but not limited to police departments, fire
departments, emergency medical services providers, and emergency services and
disaster agencies, and appointed on the basis of their ability or experience. A
member of the county Board may serve on the Emergency Telephone System Board.
Members of the board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed
for their actual and necessary expenses.
§ 38.22 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The initial terms of office for each member of the Emergency Telephone
System Board shall be as follows. One member of the Board shall be appointed
for a term of one year, two members of the Board shall be appointed for a term
of two years, two members of the Board shall be appointed for a term of three
years and two members of the Board shall be appointed for a term of four years.
All subsequent terms of office shall be for a period of four years. All terms
shall be measured from July 1 of the year of appointment. Each Board member
shall continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed and approved.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments.
(1993 Code, § 38.22) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.23 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Emergency Telephone System Board shall have the power and duty to
perform the following functions:
   (A)   Planning of a 911 emergency telephone system;
   (B)   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading or
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of specifications and
coding systems;
   (C)   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed by ordinance adopted by
the County Board, and from any other source, for deposit into the Emergency
Telephone System Fund;
   (D)   Authorizing all disbursements from the Emergency Telephone System
Fund;
   (E)   Hiring any staff necessary for the implementation or upgrade of the
911 emergency telephone system; and
   (F)   The Treasurer of the county shall create an Emergency Telephone System
Fund into which all monies received from the surcharge imposed by the County
Board shall be deposited. No expenditure may be paid from said Emergency
Telephone System Fund except upon the direction of the Board by resolution
passed by a majority of all the members of the Board. Expenditures to be made
from the amount of surcharge collected, and the interest accrued thereon, in
the Emergency Telephone System Fund may be made only to pay for the costs
associated with the following:
      (1)   The design of the 911 emergency telephone system;
      (2)   The coding of the initial master street address guide data base and
updating and maintenance thereof;
      (3)   The repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation of the
system;
      (4)   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic
location identification equipment, a computer aided dispatch system that
records, maintains and integrates information, mobile data transmits equipped
with automatic vehicle locators, and maintenance, replacement and update
thereof to increase operational efficiency and improve the provision of
emergency services;
      (5)   The non-recurring charges related to installation of the 911
emergency telephone system and the ongoing network charges;
      (6)   Other products and services necessary for the implementation,
upgrade and maintenance of the system and any other purpose related to the
operation of the system, including costs attributable directly to the
construction, leasing, or maintenance of any buildings or facilities or costs
of personnel attributable directly to the operation of the system. Costs
attributable directly to the operation of an emergency telephone system do not
include the costs of public safety agency personnel who are an equipment that
is dispatched in response to an emergency call; and
      (7)   The implementation of a computer aided dispatch system or hosted
supplemental 9-1-1 services.
(1993 Code, § 38.23) (Ord. 89-12, passed 6-21-1989; Ord. 91-2, passed 3-20-
1991)
§ 38.24 MEETINGS.
   The Emergency Telephone System Board shall prescribe the time and place of
the regularly scheduled Board meetings and the manner of which special Board
meetings may be called. It shall sit with open doors and shall keep minutes of
its own proceedings which shall be made available for public inspection.
(1993 Code, § 38.24) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.25 REMOVAL OF A BOARD MEMBER.
   A member of the Emergency Telephone System Board may be removed by the
Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice and consent of the County
Board, for neglect of duty, for not attending a Board meeting on at least three
occasions in any one calendar year without an excused absence, for misconduct
and misfeasance in office after being given a written statement of the charges
and an opportunity to be heard thereon.
(1993 Code, § 38.25) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.26 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Any information or data contained in documents furnished by
telecommunication carriers to the Emergency Telephone Board shall be held
completely confidential by the members of said Board and its agents or
employees.
(1993 Code, § 38.26) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
§ 38.27 ANNUAL BUDGET AND REPORT.
   The Emergency Telephone System Board shall annually prepare and submit to
the Finance Committee of the County Board and the full County Board the
following:
   (A)   An annual budget, to be considered, approved and appropriated as part
of the County Budget, showing the estimated receipts and intended disbursements
pursuant to this subchapter for the county fiscal year immediately following
the date the budget is submitted, which date must be at least 60 days prior to
the beginning of the county fiscal year;
   (B)   An annual report detailing the income received and disbursements made
pursuant to this subchapter during the fiscal year, just preceding the date the
annual report is submitted, which date must be within 30 days of the close of
the fiscal year;
   (C)   The annual report and budget shall be made available for public
inspection; and
   (D)   All revenues and expenditures of the Board shall be made a part of the
county’s financial system.
(1993 Code, § 38.27) (Ord. 89-2, passed 1-25-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency Telephone System Act, see 50 ILCS 750/0.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 39: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Definitions
   
39.02   Code Hearing Unit established
   
39.03   Hearing Officers appointment
   
39.04   Hearing Officers training requirements
   
39.05   Rules and regulations
   
39.06   Instituting administrative adjudication proceedings
   
39.07   Subpoenas
   
39.08   Fines payable to the County Auditor
   
39.09   Administrative hearing not exclusive
   
39.10   Administrative hearings
   
39.11   Default
   
39.12   Administrative review
   
39.13   Sanctions; transfer or conveyance of property
   
39.14   Enforcement of Hearing Officer’s order
Rules for the Conduct of Administrative Hearings
   
39.25   General rules
   
39.26   Decorum
   
39.27   Record of proceedings
   
39.28   Cameras and other non-authorized audio-visual recording or broadcasting
devices
   
39.29   Ex parte disclosures
   
39.30   Introduction and opening remarks
   
39.31   Management of the case call
   
39.32   Discovery
   
39.33   Subpoenas of witnesses and documents
   
39.34   Rules of procedure and evidence
   
39.35   Standard of proof
   
39.36   Representation and appearances
   
39.37   Continuances
   
39.38   Defaults
   
39.39   Motion to vacate a default
   
39.40   Dismissal for want of prosecution
   
39.41   Pre-hearing motions
   
39.42   Pre-hearing settlement conferences
   
39.43   Hearings
   
39.44   Waiver, suspension or reduction of fines
   
39.45   Post-hearing motions
   
39.46   Interpreters
   
39.47   Order and other pleading forms
   
39.48   Review of final orders
   
39.49   Reviewing or copying of public records
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE. The county code ordinance that pertains to or regulates any of the
following:
      (1)   Animal control;
      (2)   The definition, identification and abatement of public nuisances;
      (3)   The accumulation, disposal and transportation of garbage, refuse
and other forms of solid waste;
      (4)   The construction and maintenance of buildings and structures;
      (5)   Sanitation or sewage practices; and
      (6)   Zoning and land use related matters.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A county employee and agent authorized to issue
citations for county code violations, in the form of a violation notice and
report form and authorized to conduct inspections of public or private real
property to determine whether code violations exist. However, nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to allow for administrative adjudication of an
ordinance violation, in the case where a state statute or administrative rule
provides for a specific method or procedure to be followed, other than
administrative adjudication, in enforcing a county ordinance.
   CODE HEARING UNIT. An agency of the county government whose function shall
be to expedite the prosecution and correction of code violations as provided by
Division 5-41 of the Counties Code, 55 ILCS 5/5-41005 through 41060.
   HEARING OFFICER. An attorney at law, licensed in the state and in good
standing, and shall be granted the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether
a code violation exists;
      (2)   To hear testimony and accept evidence from the Code Enforcement
Officer, the respondent and all interested parties relevant to the existence of
a code violation;
      (3)   To preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (4)   To issue and sign written findings and a decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists;
      (5)   To impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
to assess costs reasonably related to instituting the proceedings upon finding
the respondent liable for the charged violation. In no event, however, shall
the HEARING OFFICER have the authority to impose a penalty of incarceration.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The legal or beneficial owner of an improved or unimproved
parcel of real estate.
   RESPONDENT. A property owner, waste hauler or other person charged with
liability for an alleged code violation and the person to whom the notice of
violation is directed.
   SOLID WASTE. Demolition materials, food and industrial processing wastes,
garden trash, land cleaning waste, mixed refuse, non-combustible refuse and
trash as defined in the Solid Waste Disposal District Act (70 ILCS 3105/1 et
seq.)
   WASTE HAULER. Any person owning or controlling any vehicle used to carry or
transport garbage, refuse or other forms of solid waste.
(1993 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.02 CODE HEARING UNIT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a code hearing unit which shall be known as the
“Madison County Code Hearing Unit” and same shall be authorized to conduct
administrative adjudication proceedings for the county, its departments and its
officers in order to expedite the prosecution and correction of code
violations.
(1993 Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.03 HEARING OFFICERS APPOINTMENT.
   The Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice and consent of the
County Board, shall appoint one or more Hearing Officers for the purposes in
this section. Said Hearing Officer shall be an attorney licensed in the state
and in good standing. Compensation for said Hearing Officer shall be determined
by the County Board.
(1993 Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.04 HEARING OFFICERS TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to conducting an administrative adjudication proceeding a Hearing
Officer may be required to complete a training program approved by the County
Legislative Committee, which may include the following:
   (A)   Instruction on the Madison County Rules for the Conduct of
Administrative Hearings;
   (B)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations which the
Hearing Officer will adjudicate;
   (C)   Observation of county or another unit of local government’s
administrative hearings; and
   (D)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and
issuing final orders.
(1993 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of administrative
hearings shall be published and kept on file in the office of the County Clerk
where they shall be available to the public for inspection and copying during
normal business hours.
(1993 Code, § 39.05) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.06 INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Violation notice and report form.
      (1)   When a Code Enforcement Officer observes a code violation, the
Officer shall report the violation on a violation notice and report form,
indicating the following: the name and address of the respondent, if known; the
name, address and state vehicle registration number of the waste hauler who
deposited the waste, if applicable; the type and nature of the violation; the
date and time the violation was observed; the names of witnesses to the
violation; and the address of the location or property where the violation is
observed.
      (2)   The violation notice and report form shall contain a file number
and a hearing date noted by the Code Enforcement Officer in the blank spaces
provided for that purpose on the form.
      (3)   The violation notice and report shall state that a failure to
appear at the hearing on the date indicated may result in a determination of
liability for the cited violation and the imposition of fines and assessment of
costs as provided by the applicable county ordinance.
      (4)   The violation notice and report shall also state that upon a
determination of liability and the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust
procedures for judicial review, any unpaid fines or costs imposed will
constitute a debt due and owed to the county.
   (B)   Service of violation notice and report form. A copy of the violation
notice and report form shall be served on the respondent either personally or
by first class mail, postage prepaid, sent to the address of the respondent. If
the name of the respondent property owner cannot be ascertained or if service
on the respondent cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the respondent
property owner by posting, not less than 20 days before the hearing is
scheduled, a copy of the violation notice and report from in a prominent place
on the property where the violation is found.
(1993 Code, § 39.06) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.07 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   At any time prior to the hearing date, at the request of the Code
Enforcement Officer, the attorney for the county, the respondent or the
attorney for the respondent, the Hearing Officer assigned to hear the case may
issue subpoenas directing parties to produce relevant documents or items, or
directing witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing.
   (B)   A Hearing Officer may issue a subpoena only if the hearing officer
determines that the testimony of the witnesses or the documents or items sought
by the subpoena are necessary to present evidence that is:
      (1)   Relevant to the case; and
      (2)   Relates to a contested issue in this case.
   (C)   A subpoena issued under this chapter shall identify:
      (1)   The person to whom it is directed;
      (2)   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any;
      (3)   The date for the appearance of the witnesses or for the production
of the documents or other items described in the subpoena; and
      (4)   The date, time and place for the appearance of the witness or for
the production of the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
(1993 Code, § 39.07) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.08 FINES PAYABLE TO THE COUNTY AUDITOR.
   All fines and other monies paid to the county in accordance with this
chapter shall be remitted to the County Auditor.
(1993 Code, § 39.08) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.09 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, neither the authority
of the Code Hearing Unit to conduct administrative adjudication procedures nor
the institution of such procedures under this chapter shall preclude the county
from seeking remedies for code violations through the use of any other
administrative procedure or court proceeding.
(1993 Code, § 39.09) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.10 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Presentation of county’s case. The case for the county may be
presented by the Code Enforcement Officer or by the State’s Attorney. In no
event, however, may the case for the county be presented by an employee of the
Code Hearing Unit; provided, however, that documentary evidence, including the
notice of violation, which has been prepared by another department or office of
the county, may be presented at the hearing by the Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Presentation of the respondent’s case. The case for the respondent may
be presented by the respondent or by the respondent’s attorney. If the
respondent is a corporation, it may appear through any officer, director,
manager or supervisor of the corporation. An attorney who appears on behalf of
any respondent shall file with the Hearing Officer a written appearance on a
form provided by the Code Hearing Unit for that purpose.
   (C)   Evidence at hearings.
      (1)   Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall preside at the hearing,
shall hear testimony and shall accept any evidence relevant to an alleged code
violation.
      (2)   Testimony. All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
      (3)   Liberal rules of evidence. The formal and technical rules of
evidence shall not apply to the conduct of the hearing. Evidence, including
hearsay, may be admitted if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably
prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
      (4)   Burden of proof. A code violation must be established by a
preponderance of the evidence; provided, however, that the Enforcement
Officer’s signed violation notice and report form, or a copy thereof, shall be
prima facie evidence of the existence of the code violation described in the
form.
      (5)   Record of hearing. The record of all hearings before a Hearing
Officer shall include:
         (a)   All documents presented at the hearing;
         (b)   A copy of the notice of the violation or notice of the hearing;
and
         (c)   A copy of the findings and decision of the Hearing Officer.
      (6)   Finding, decision and order. Upon the conclusion of the hearing,
the Hearing Officer shall make a determination upon the basis of the evidence
as to whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing
and shall be designated as the Hearing Officer’s “Findings, Decision and
Order.” The findings, decision and order shall include:
         (a)   The Hearing Officer’s findings of fact;
         (b)   A determination of whether a code violation exists based upon
the findings of fact;
         (c)   An order imposing a fine or other penalty, directing the
respondent to correct the violation or other sanctions provided in the code for
violations, including the imposition of fines and the recovery of other costs
of the proceedings, if the violation is proved; or an order dismissing the case
if the violation is not proved; and
         (d)   In the case of a finding that a violation exists, a statement
advising the respondent of the right to seek judicial review of the Hearing
Officer’s findings, decision and order.
      (7)   Service of findings, decision and order. A copy of the findings,
decision and order shall be served by personal service or by any method
provided for service of the violation notice and report form under division (C)
(6)(b) above.
(1993 Code, § 39.10) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.11 DEFAULT.
   If at the time set for a hearing the respondent or the respondent’s attorney
fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the respondent in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation and enter a findings, decision and order. A copy of the order
of default shall be served by personal service or by any method provided for
service of the violation notice and report form under §
39.06(B).
(1993 Code, § 39.11) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.12 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   The findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of the county. The Administrative Review Law (735
ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.) and the rules adopted pursuant thereto shall apply to and
govern every action for the judicial review of the final findings, decision and
order of a Hearing Officer.
(1993 Code, § 39.12) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.13 SANCTIONS; TRANSFER OR CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by a
county against a respondent property owner as the result of a finding of a code
violation under this subchapter shall attach to the property, subject to the
interests of all lien holders of record, as well as to the owner of the
property, so that the owner cannot avoid the finding of a code violation
against the owner by conveying or transferring the property to another.
   (B)   Any subsequent transferee or owner of the property takes the property
subject to the findings, decision and order of a Hearing Officer if a notice
consisting of a copy of the order to correct a code violation and imposing any
sanctions and costs, if applicable, and a description of the real estate
affected that is sufficient to identify the property has been filed in the
office of the Recorder by the county prior to the transfer or conveyance to the
subsequent transferee or owner.
(1993 Code, § 39.13) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.14 ENFORCEMENT OF HEARING OFFICER’S ORDER.
   (A)   Fines, sanctions and costs as debt. Any fine or other sanction or
costs imposed, or any part of any fine, or other sanction or costs imposed,
remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust procedures for
judicial review under the Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.)
is a debt due and owed to the county and, as such may be collected in
accordance with applicable law. Any subsequent owner or transferee of property
takes subject to this debt if a notice has been filed pursuant to the foregoing
§
39.13(B).
   (B)   Enforcement in Circuit Court. After expiration of the period within
which judicial review under the Administrative Review Law (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et
seq.) may be sought for a final determination of the code violation, the county
may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court for purposes of obtaining a
judgment on the Hearing Officer’s findings, decision and order. The county may
consolidate multiple findings, decisions and orders against a person or
property in such a proceeding.
   (C)   Supporting documentation. Upon commencement of the action, the county
shall file a certified copy of the findings, decision and order, which shall be
accompanied by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
findings, decision and order were issued in accordance with Division 5-41 of
the Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-41005 through 41060) and the applicable county
ordinance.
   (D)   Service of summons and petition. Service of the summons and a copy of
the complaint for judgment may be by any method provided by § 2-203 of the Code
of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/2-203) or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, provided that the total amount of fines or other sanctions and costs
imposed by the findings, decision and order does not exceed $5,000.
(1993 Code, § 39.14) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
RULES FOR THE CONDUCT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
§ 39.25 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   Creation and amendment of rules. The Director of the Code Hearing
Unit, subject to the approval of the Legislative Committee, shall have the
power to create and amend rules for the fair and efficient conduct of
administrative hearings pursuant to the county code.
   (B)   Scope of rules. These rules shall apply to the conduct of all cases
before the Code Hearing Unit.
   (C)   Supremacy of ordinances. Nothing in these rules shall act to override,
restrict or relax the procedural requirements or provisions of the applicable
provisions of the county code. In the event of a conflict between provisions of
these rules and the county code, the county code shall take precedence.
   (D)   Effective date. These rules shall be in full force and effect upon the
passage of “An Ordinance Amending the Madison County Code by Adding Chapter 39:
Administrative Adjudication of Ordinance Violations” and promulgating “Rules
for the Conduct of Administrative Hearings.”
   (E)   Parties. An action for administrative adjudication shall be brought in
the name of the county as “petitioner.” The alleged violator of an ordinance
shall be referred to as the “respondent.”
(1993 Code, § 39.25) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.26 DECORUM.
   Administrative hearings shall be conducted with proper decorum at all times.
A Hearing Officer is expected to conduct the hearing room, the call and the
proceedings in a timely, orderly and professional manner. A Hearing Officer may
order the temporary removal of any individual who is causing or contributing to
a disruption of the call or proceedings.
(1993 Code, § 39.26) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.27 RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   All proceedings may be recorded by audio tape or by other approved means.
Respondents may, at their own cost, provide a certified or licensed court
reporter to record proceedings. Video or audio recording not authorized by the
Hearing Officer is prohibited.
(1993 Code, § 39.27) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.28 CAMERAS AND OTHER NON-AUTHORIZED AUDIO-VISUAL RECORDING OR BROADCASTING
DEVICES.
   The county hereby adopts and incorporates the order of the Illinois Supreme
Court in In re Photographing, Broadcasting, and Televising Proceedings in the
Courts of Illinois (MR No. 2634). Pursuant to said order, the photographing,
broadcasting or televising of these proceedings, other than those in the
appellate and supreme courts, is prohibited. Therefore, the photographing,
broadcasting or televising of proceedings before a Hearing Officer are
prohibited.
(1993 Code, § 39.28) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.29 EX PARTE DISCLOSURES.
   The county hereby adopts and incorporates Canon 3(A)(6) of the Code of
Conduct for Administrative Law Officers. Therefore, Hearing Officers and other
personnel of the Code Hearing Unit are required to refrain from public comment
about a pending or impending proceeding before the Code Hearing Unit.
(1993 Code, § 39.29) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.30 INTRODUCTION AND OPENING REMARKS.
   A Hearing Officer should begin the Officer’s call by introducing himself or
herself to the litigants and other attendants. Opening remarks should include
informing the citizens as to the nature and manner of the proceedings. Opening
remarks may include information about the order that cases will be called, the
need to maintain proper decorum, continuances, acceptable and unacceptable
defenses, the availability of pre-trial conferences and the range of potential
fines.
(1993 Code, § 39.30) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.31 MANAGEMENT OF THE CASE CALL.
   Cases should be called in the following order to achieve a timely and
efficient management of the call.
   (A)   Pre-tried dismissals or settlements. Matters pre-tried prior to the
call which result in dismissal or settlement of the case shall be called and
placed into the record.
   (B)   Cases with attorneys. Cases, not pre-tried or settled, in which an
attorney has filed a written appearance shall be called. The Hearing Officer
should note in the Officer’s opening remarks that attorneys are not given
preferential treatment, but as officers of the court their presence may be
required before judges in the courthouses.
   (C)   Regular call. Respondents seeking a full hearing shall be called
according to the order on the docket, and the hearing commenced.
   (D)   Additional pre-tried dismissals or settlements. Matters pre-tried
during the call which result in dismissal or settlement of the case shall be
called and placed into the record.
   (E)   Motion to set-aside defaults. Respondents moving to set aside the
default order shall be called and a hearing on the motion commenced. The
Hearing Officer shall first determine whether the motion is timely and whether
the Officer has jurisdiction to entertain the motion. If timely, the Hearing
Officer shall determine the merits of the motion. If the motion is granted, the
Hearing Officer should proceed at once with a hearing on the case.
   (F)   Defaults. Cases in which the respondent does not appear shall be
called. The Hearing Officer shall proceed with a hearing and enter an order on
the record.
(1993 Code, § 39.31) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.32 DISCOVERY.
   Discovery in proceedings before the Code Hearing Unit shall be governed by
Illinois Supreme Court Rule 201(h). Accordingly, no discovery procedure shall
be used in proceedings before the Code Hearing Unit except by leave of a
Hearing Officer.
(1993 Code, § 39.32) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.33 SUBPOENAS OF WITNESSES AND DOCUMENTS.
   Subpoenas in proceedings before the Code Hearing Unit may only be issued by
a Hearing Officer. The availability, number, scope and manner of subpoenas in a
given proceeding are governed by the ordinance particular to the subject matter
or violation in question. In general, subpoenas are issued at the discretion of
the Hearing Officer.
(1993 Code, § 39.33) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.34 RULES OF PROCEDURE AND EVIDENCE.
   The formal and technical rules of civil and criminal procedure and evidence
shall not apply in the conduct of administrative hearings. Evidence, including
hearsay, may be admitted if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably
prudent persons.
(1993 Code, § 39.34) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.35 STANDARD OF PROOF.
   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of the
evidence.
(1993 Code, § 39.35) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.36 REPRESENTATION AND APPEARANCES.
   Parties may represent themselves or may be represented by an attorney. Any
and all counsel appearing on behalf of a respondent in any proceeding before a
Hearing Officer must file a written and signed appearance. PROCEEDING as
defined in this section includes, but is not limited to, any and all requests
for a continuance, hearings on motions, including motions to vacate default
judgments, or hearings on the merits of the case.
(1993 Code, § 39.36) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.37 CONTINUANCES.
   All requests or motions for continuances must be filed in writing with the
Code Hearing Unit. Continuances are not looked upon with favor and shall only
be granted where absolutely necessary for good cause shown. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. The Hearing Officer may grant
continuances only upon a finding of good cause.
(1993 Code, § 39.37) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.38 DEFAULTS.
   If a respondent or respondent’s representative fails to appear for a
properly noticed hearing, the Hearing Officer may find the respondent in
default and proceed with the hearing.
(1993 Code, § 39.38) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.39 MOTION TO VACATE A DEFAULT.
   Any motion to vacate a default must be filed within 35 days of the date a
copy of the findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer is served upon
the respondent. The Code Hearing Unit shall not have jurisdiction to vacate a
default order after the foregoing 35-day period. However, lack of personal
jurisdiction may be raised at any time.
(1993 Code, § 39.39) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.40 DISMISSAL FOR WANT OF PROSECUTION.
   If the Hearing Officer determines that the petitioner has not afforded
proper notice under the applicable ordinance in question, then the case shall
be continued on the call to afford the petitioner an opportunity to resend
notice. If at the continued date the petitioner has not afforded proper notice,
the Hearing Officer shall dismiss the matter for want of prosecution. Said
first dismissal shall be without prejudice.
(1993 Code, § 39.40) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.41 PRE-HEARING MOTIONS.
   Pre-hearing motions should be limited to motions for leave to request
discovery, subpoenas, continuances or vacation of prior default. In matters
where discovery is allowed by the Hearing Officer, discovery related motions
may also be allowed.
(1993 Code, § 39.41) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.42 PRE-HEARING SETTLEMENT CONFERENCES.
   A party and the issuing county department may enter into a settlement or
stipulation of the issues or case and present the same to the Hearing Officer
when the matter is called.
(1993 Code, § 39.42) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.43 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice. A Hearing Officer will first determine whether the petitioner
has afforded proper notice to the respondent. What constitutes proper notice is
governed by the ordinance particular to the subject matter or violation in
question. If notice is improper the matter will be returned to the petitioner
for re-notice or refiling.
   (B)   Presentation of the county’s case. The county bears the responsibility
for presenting its case. In general, the case may be presented by a county
representative (including non-lawyers), live sworn testimony, sworn signed
prima facie documentation or all of these.
   (C)   Respondent’s plea. In the event that the county has met its initial
burdens of notice and evidence of its claim or of a violation, the respondent
or the respondent’s representative shall be asked to enter a plea of “admit —
liable” or “deny — not liable.”
   (D)   Presentation of the respondent’s case and defenses. The defenses
available to the respondent and the manner in which they may be presented are
governed by the ordinance particular to the subject matter or violation in
question. In general, evidence may be presented through live sworn testimony,
admissible documents, admissible exhibits or other admissible evidence.
   (E)   Questions by the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer may ask
questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to ensure the clarity and
completeness of the testimony and record.
   (F)   Constitutional challenges. The Code Hearing Unit is not empowered to
pass upon the constitutionality of a statute, ordinance, rule, regulation or
other legislative or administrative action. See Yellow Cab Co. vs. City of
Chicago, 938 F. Supp. 500 (1996). Parties may, however, make an objection,
without argument, to the constitutionality of a statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation or other legislative or administrative action for the record.
   (G)   Closing arguments. Each party may be afforded an opportunity to make
closing arguments.
   (H)   Ruling. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
make a determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as
to whether a violation exists or does not exist. The determination shall be
recorded in the form of a written order and shall be designated as the Hearing
Officer’s findings, decision and order.
   (I)   Service. Service of the findings, decision and order or any default
order or other order shall be as provided by ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 39.43) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.44 WAIVER, SUSPENSION OR REDUCTION OF FINES.
   In instances where the county code calls for the imposition of a mandatory
minimum fine upon a finding of liability by a Hearing Officer, a Hearing
Officer may not waive, suspend or reduce the imposition of said mandatory
minimum fine.
(1993 Code, § 39.44) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.45 POST-HEARING MOTIONS.
   There shall be no post-hearing motion practice before the Code Hearing Unit.
(1993 Code, § 39.45) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.46 INTERPRETERS.
   The respondent is responsible for supplying respondent’s own interpreter to
provide assistance during the hearing process. Interpreters shall be sworn-in
and shall swear that the interpreter shall provide an accurate translation of
the proceedings.
(1993 Code, § 39.46) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.47 ORDER AND OTHER PLEADING FORMS.
   The Director of the Code Hearing Unit shall have the authority to create and
require the use of preprinted orders and related pleading forms in the hearing
process.
(1993 Code, § 39.47) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.48 REVIEW OF FINAL ORDERS.
   Upon becoming final, an order of a Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of the county, pursuant to the Illinois
Administrative Review Act (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
(1993 Code, § 39.48) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000)
§ 39.49 REVIEWING OR COPYING OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The public records and public case files maintained by the Building and
Zoning Department may be viewed during normal business hours (Monday through
Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.) in the Office of the Madison County Building,
Building and Zoning Department, Room 254, Madison County Administration
Building, 157 North Main Street, Edwardsville, Illinois. No records or file
items may be removed from the premises absent court order. The Building and
Zoning Department reserves the right to require that requests be made in
writing and that extensive or multiple requests be made by appointment. Copies
of public records and public files may be requested through the Freedom of
Information Act. The Building and Zoning Department reserves the right to
require that requests be made in writing. Fees for processing requests shall be
posted by the Building and Zoning Department and shall be paid at the time the
documents are provided.
(1993 Code, § 39.49) (Ord. 98-17, passed 11-18-1998; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-15-
2000; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
CHAPTER 40: ETHICS
Section
Madison County Ethics Ordinance
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Gift ban
   
40.03   Prohibited political activities
   
40.04   False reports; prohibition
   
40.05   Ethics advisor
   
40.06   Ethics training
Economic Interests Addendum Ordinance
   
40.20   Purpose and intent
   
40.21   Definitions
   
40.22   Disclosure of economic interests addendum
   
40.23   Applicability of other laws
   
40.24   Procedures and duties of County Clerk
   
40.25   Addendum to statement of economic interests to be filed with the County
Clerk
 
   
40.99   Penalty
MADISON COUNTY ETHICS ORDINANCE
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who had filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. This term has the same meaning as the term is defined
in § 3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on the
premises under the control of the employer, and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Any authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. This term has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-
1.4 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the county, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor, employees
of the State’s Attorney or employees of the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   EMPLOYER. The County of Madison, Illinois.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value, including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink and honoraria for speaking engagements related
to or attributable to government employment or the official position of an
officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity, but does not include the State’s
Attorney or the Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County
Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any one or more of the following activities:
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets to any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; or
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer;
         (b)   By an employee; or
         (c)   By the officer or other employee directing that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer;
         (b)   With an employee; or
         (c)   With the officer or other employee directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer;
         (b)   By an employee; or
         (c)   By the officer or other employee directing that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee; or
      (5)   Is registered or required to be registered with the Secretary of
State under the Lobbyist Registration Act, being 25 ILCS 170/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 40.02 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no officer
or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any
officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as RECIPIENTS), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined
herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by any federal or state statute, rule,
regulation or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make
a gift that violates this subchapter.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The restrictions in division (A) above do not apply to the
following:
         (a)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
         (b)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code,
or activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate;
         (c)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancée;
         (d)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient of his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the public official or employee
shall consider the circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         (e)   Educational materials and missions;
         (f)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (g)   Intragovernmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purposes
of this subchapter, INTRAGOVERNMENTAL gift means any gift given to an officer
or employee of the employer from another officer or employee of the employer,
and INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or employer of
one governmental entity by an officer or employee of another governmental
entity;
         (h)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee) if the
benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or
employment of the officer or employee and are customarily provided to others in
similar circumstances;
         (i)   1.   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value
on a single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are:
               a.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
               b.   Catered.
            2.   For purposes of this division (B)(1)(i), CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         (j)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the
same conditions for the general public;
         (k)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100; and
         (l)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this subchapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a
gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or
hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.03 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Prohibited activities.
      (1)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined in §
40.01.
      (2)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or
resources of the county in connection with any prohibited political activity.
      (3)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
         (a)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
         (b)   As a condition of employment; or
         (c)   During any compensated time off, including, but not limited to,
holidays, vacation or personal time off.
      (4)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   Permissible activities.
      (1)   Nothing in division (A) above shall be construed to prohibit
activities that are permissible for an officer or employee to engage in as part
of his or her official duties.
      (2)   Nothing in division (A) above shall be construed to prohibit
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
and are not otherwise prohibited under division (A) above.
   (C)   Merit system, federal funds. No person either in a position that is
subject to recognized merit principles of public employment, or in a position
the salary for which is paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is
subject to the Federal Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration
applicable to grant-in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment
or tenure solely because he or she is a member or an officer of a political
committee, or a political party or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.04 FALSE REPORTS; PROHIBITION.
   No person shall intentionally make a false report alleging a violation of
any provision of this subchapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
State’s Attorney or any other law enforcement official.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-19-2004) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.05 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   Appointment of Ethics Advisor. The County Board Chairperson, with the
advice and consent of the County Board, shall designate an Ethics Advisor for
the county. No person shall be appointed as Ethics Advisor who serves as or is
employed as an officer or employee of the county. No person shall be appointed
as Ethics Advisor who is related by blood or marriage, up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected officer of the county.
   (B)   Term of Ethics Advisor. The initial appointee to the position of
Ethics Advisor shall serve a term ending on June 30, 2006. Thereafter,
successive appointments shall be made for a two-year term ending on June 30 of
each even-numbered year. If the position of Ethics Advisor becomes vacant, an
individual shall be appointed to fill the unexpired term in accordance with
division (A) above.
   (C)   Duties of Ethics Advisor. The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to
the officers and employees of the county concerning the interpretation of and
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics laws. The
Ethics Advisor may perform other such duties as may be delegated by the county.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-19-2004)
§ 40.06 ETHICS TRAINING.
   All employees, appointed and elected, are required to receive and pass
Madison County Ethics training annually and no later than 120 days after
employment. Independent contractors, and employees of the State’s Attorney,
Circuit Clerk, and Circuit Court are exempt.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 6-15-2020)
ECONOMIC INTERESTS ADDENDUM ORDINANCE
§ 40.20 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter are to continue to ensure confidence to
the residents of Madison County (hereinafter referred to as “county”) in their
elected and appointed public officials by creating an addendum to the Illinois
Statement of Economic Interests which will provide for a more transparent
government. This subchapter is adopted pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/5-1113 as amended
from time to time. This subchapter is not intended to replace the provisions of
5 ILCS 420/4A et seq. (Disclosure of Economic Interests), but to enact
financial disclosure requirements that require information in addition to that
which is currently required under said Act, as permitted by 5 ILCS 420/4A-101
(Persons Required to File), that reads as follows:
This section shall not be construed to prevent any unit of local government
from enacting financial disclosure requirements that mandate more information
than required by this Act.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012)
§ 40.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOING BUSINESS WITH THE COUNTY OR ANY OTHER LOCAL, PUBLIC GOVERNMENT. The
person, business or professional entity has a relationship of a contractual
nature with the county or any other local, public government in the county
within the last 36 months for the provision of goods or services to the county
or to any unit of the county or any other local, public government in the
county.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. An individual’s spouse, dependent children or others if
the interest herein required to be disclosed is constructively controlled by
the person required to file a conflict of interest disclaimer and/or statement
of economic interest pursuant to state statutes.
   INTEREST. An economic, contractual and beneficial or ownership interest in
the proceeding or action, including an interest in real property affected by
the proceeding or action.
   PROFESSIONAL ENTITY. An entity that provides professional services as
defined in 5 ILCS 420/1-116, that is to say: services rendered in the practice
of law, accounting, engineering, medicine, architecture, dentistry or clinical
psychology. For purposes of this subchapter, PROFESSIONAL ENTITY also includes
any other entity whose business must be licensed or conducted by persons
required to be licensed in their profession.
   REAL PROPERTY. Property consisting of land, buildings, crops or other
resources still attached to or within the land or improvements or fixtures
permanently attached to the land or a structure on it.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012)
§ 40.22 DISCLOSURE OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS ADDENDUM.
   (A)   All elected or appointed county public officials shall file with the
County Clerk, a verified addendum to statement of economic interests responding
in detail to the following questions.
      (1)   (a)   Other than your principal residence, do you or any members of
your immediate family own any interest in real property located within the
county?                                                         .
         (b)   If your answer is affirmative, state the following information
for each such interest owned:
            1.   The nature of your interest in the real property and your
instrument of ownership as defined in 5 ILCS 420/1-115 (deeds, common or
preferred stock certificates, rights, warrants, options, bills of sale,
contracts, interests in proprietorships, partnerships and joint ventures, and
beneficial interests in trusts or land trusts)
                                                                                        .
            2.   The location of the real property (for improved property,
provides the street address; for unimproved property, state its location in
relation to existing streets)
                                                                     .
            3.   The property’s permanent real estate tax identification number
                                                                                                        .
      (2)   (a)   Do you or members of your immediate family own an interest in
any business or professional entity doing business with the county or any other
public/local government agency within Madison County?                        .
Are you or any members of your immediate family an officer or director of any
business or professional entity doing business with the county or any other
local, public government agency within Madison County?
                                           .
         (b)   If your answer to either of the foregoing questions is in the
affirmative, state the following: the name of the business or professional
entity, the nature of your relationship to the business or professional entity;
the type of product produced or service rendered by the business or
professional entity and the extent or percentage of the interest
                                                                                        .
      (3)   (a)   Other than a debt to secure a mortgage upon your principal
residence or business loan are you or members of your immediate family indebted
to any person or business or professional entity doing business with the County
or any other local, public government within Madison County?
         Circle One:   YES   NO
         (b)   If yes, list each such person, business or professional entity
to which you or members of your immediate family are indebted and the amount of
each debt. EXCLUDE: Any liability of $1,200 or less; student loans; installment
loans (cars, household effects and the like); medical and dental debts; credit
card purchases; support or alimony obligations; debts owed to spouse or close
relative; and debts incurred in the maintenance of your household
               .
      (4)   If you or members of your immediate family have been released from
any indebtedness from any person, business or professional entity doing
business with the county or any other local, public government within Madison
County exceeding in its principal amount of $1,200 within the last year without
repaying the total balance due on such indebtedness, list the name of the
creditor providing the release, the nature and the amount of the indebtedness,
and describe the circumstances surrounding the release. EXCLUDE: Any liability
of $1,200 or less; student loans; installment loans (cars, household effects
and the like); medical and dental debts; credit card purchases; support or
alimony obligations; debts owed to spouse or close relative; and debts incurred
in the maintenance of your household
                                                                                                                                     .
   (B)   All elected or appointed county public officials shall file with the
County Clerk, on an annual basis, an addendum to statement of economic
interests in conjunction with the statement of economic interests to be filed
with the Secretary of State pursuant to 5 ILCS 420/4A-105.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.23 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to in any way restrict the
application of any state, local or common law provision with respect to
conflict of interest, malfeasance, misfeasance or nonfeasance in office or
employment that would otherwise be applicable to any individual subject to the
provisions of this subchapter. The provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed to be additional requirements and shall in no way be construed as a
derogation of present statutory penalties and other local remedies for acts
prohibited in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012)
§ 40.24 PROCEDURES AND DUTIES OF COUNTY CLERK.
   (A)   The relevant provisions of 5 ILCS 420/4A et seq. are hereby
incorporated into this code as procedure regarding time for filing, where to
file, notification to persons required to file, penalties for failure to file
and other miscellaneous provisions.
   (B)   The County Clerk will receive and maintain a log of all complaints
made against individuals subject to this subchapter. All complaints against
elected or appointed county officials, county department heads or the County
Administrator alleging a violation of the disclosure provision of this
subchapter shall be submitted to the State’s Attorney for investigation.
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012)
§ 40.25 ADDENDUM TO STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS TO BE FILED WITH THE COUNTY
CLERK.
                                                                            
   (Name of person for which this addendum is filed)
                                                                             
   (List each office or position of employment for
   which this addendum is filed)
                                                                            
   (Full post office address to which notification of an
   examination of this addendum should be sent)
   GENERAL DIRECTIONS
The interest (if constructively controlled by the person making the statement) of a spouse or any other party; including dependent children or others
of interest, shall be considered to be the same as the interest of the person making the statement. Campaign receipts shall not be included in this
statement. If additional space is needed, please attach a supplemental listing.
1.   Other than your principal residence, do you or any members of your immediate family own any interest in real property located within the county?
                                                                       
   If your answer is affirmative, state the following information for each such interest owned:
   a.   The nature of your interest in the real property and your instrument of ownership as defined in 5 ILCS 420/1-115 (deeds, common or preferred
stock certificates, rights, warrants, options, bills of sale, contracts, interests in proprietorships, partnerships and joint ventures, and beneficial
interests in trusts or land trusts).
   b.   The location of the real property (for improved property, provides the street address; for unimproved property, state its location in relation
to existing streets).
   c.   The property’s permanent real estate tax identification number.
                                                                          
                                                                       
2.   Do you or members of your immediate family own an interest in any business or professional entity doing business with the County or any other
public/local government agency within Madison County?                         . Are you or any members of your immediate family an officer or director
of any business or professional entity doing business with the county or any other local, public government agency within Madison County?
                                                     .
   If your answer to either of the foregoing questions is in the affirmative, state the following: the name of the business or professional entity, the
nature of your relationship to the business or professional entity; the type of product produced or service rendered by the business or professional
entity and the extent or percentage of the interest                                                      
.
3.   Other than a debt to secure a mortgage upon your principal residence or business loan are you or members of your immediate family indebted to any
person or business or professional entity doing business with the county or any other local, public government within Madison County?
   Circle One:   YES      NO
   If yes, list each such person, business or professional entity to which you or members of your immediate family are indebted and the amount of each
debt. EXCLUDE: Any liability of $1,200 or less; student loans; installment loans (cars, household effects and the like); medical and dental debts;
credit card purchases; support or alimony obligations; debts owed to spouse or close relative; and debts incurred in the maintenance of your household
                         
                                                                     .
4.   If you or members of your immediate family have been released from any indebtedness from any person, business or professional entity doing
business with the county or any other local, public government within Madison County exceeding in its principal amount of $1,200 within the last year
without repaying the total balance due on such indebtedness, list the name of the creditor providing the release, the nature and the amount of the
indebtedness, and describe the circumstances surrounding the release.
   EXCLUDE: Any liability of $1,200 or less; student loans; installment loans (cars, household effects, etc.); medical and dental debts; credit card
purchases; support or alimony obligations; debts owed to spouse or close relative; and debts incurred in the maintenance of your household
                                                                  
.
Verification:
“I declare that this disclosure of economic interests (including any accompanying attachments) has been examined by me and to the best of my knowledge
and belief is a true, correct and complete statement of my economic interests as required by the Madison County economic interests resolution and
conflicts of interest disclosure ordinance. I understand that the penalty for knowingly and intentionally filing a false or incomplete statement shall
be an ordinance violation subject to fines and penalties not to exceed $1,000 (55 ILCS 5/5-1113).”
                                                                           
(Date of filing)      (Signature of person making the statement)
 
(Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Madison County ethics ordinance.
      (1)   An individual who intentionally violates any provision of §
40.03(A) may be punished by a term of incarceration in the County Jail for a
period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500.
      (2)   An individual who intentionally violates any provision of §
40.02 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any individual who intentionally violates §
40.04 may be punished by a term of incarceration in the County Jail for a
period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500.
      (4)   A violation of §§
40.03(A) or 40.04 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the State’s
Attorney by the filing of an information or sworn complaint in the Circuit
Court charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the
rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the
guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
      (5)   A violation of §
40.02(A) shall be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by the State’s
Attorney by the filing of a sworn complaint in the Circuit Court charging such
offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to applicable rules for
quasi-criminal procedure. Adjudication against the defendant or respondent
shall require establishment of guilt by a preponderance of the evidence.
      (6)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
40.02(A) or 40.03(A) is subject to discipline or discharge.
      (7)   Any complaint alleging a violation of §§
40.01 through
40.05 must be filed with the Circuit Court within one year of the occurrence of
the alleged violation.
   (B)   Economic interests addendum ordinance. The penalty for knowingly and
intentionally filing a false or incomplete statement shall be an ordinance
violation subject to fines and penalties not to exceed $1,000 pursuant to 55
ILCS 5/5-1113. All ordinance violations shall be filed within the County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2004-04, passed 5-19-2004; Ord. 2012-06, passed 6-20-2012)
CHAPTER 41: CHILDREN’S ADVOCACY CENTER
Section
   
41.01   Children’s Advocacy Advisory Board
   
41.02   Advocacy Center established
   
41.03   Open meetings
   
41.04   Removal of Board members
   
41.05   Term
   
41.06   Confidentiality
   
41.07   Annual budget and report
§ 41.01 CHILDREN’S ADVOCACY ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to the Children’s Advocacy Center Act, 55 ILCS 80/1 et
seq., the county shall have a Children’s Advocacy Advisory Board (Advisory
Board). Each of the following county officers or state agencies shall designate
a representative to serve on the Advisory Board: the Sheriff, the State
Department of Children and Family Services, the State’s Attorney and the County
Mental Health Department.
      (2)   The Advisory Board Chairperson may appoint additional members to
the Advisory Board as is deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of the
Children’s Advocacy Center Act. The additional members may include, but are not
limited to, representatives of local law enforcement agencies.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall organize itself and elect from among its
members a Chairperson and such other officers as is deemed necessary. Until a
Chairperson is so elected, the State’s Attorney shall serve as interim
Chairperson.
   (C)   The Advisory Board is hereby granted the powers, duties,
responsibilities and authority authorized by the Act and shall take all action
necessary to ensure that the county complies with the Act.
(1993 Code, § 41.01) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-2002)
§ 41.02 ADVOCACY CENTER ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Children’s Advocacy Center to coordinate
the activities of the various agencies involved in the investigation,
prosecution and treatment referrals of child sexual abuse. The Advisory Board
shall serve as the governing board for the center, and by a majority of votes
of its members, shall submit a proposed annual budget for the operation of the
center to the County Board. The County Board may appropriate funds sufficient
to operate the center. The county may also fund the center from grants,
donations, third-party payors, and appropriation as the county deems to be
appropriate. The county shall establish a Children’s Advocacy Center Fund,
which shall be kept separate and apart from other county funds and shall only
be used for the purposes of this Act.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall pay from the Children’s Advocacy Center Fund
the salaries of all employees of the center, all of whom shall be county
employees, and the expenses of acquiring a physical plant for the center by
construction or lease and maintaining the center, including the expenses of
administering the coordination of the investigation, prosecution and treatment
referral of child sexual abuse under the provisions of the protocol adopted
pursuant to the Act.
   (C)   The Advisory Board of the center shall, by a majority of the vote of
the members, authorize the center to coordinate activities of the various
agencies involved in the investigation, prosecution and treatment referral of
serious child physical abuse cases. The Advisory Board shall provide for the
financial support of these activities in the manner set out in this chapter and
shall submit a budget that includes support for physical abuse and neglect
activities to the County Board, which shall appropriate funds that may be
available pursuant to the referendum provisions of the Act and this chapter.
The county may, at its sole discretion, appropriate funds for the center out of
the general funds of the county, but shall not be obligated to do so.
   (D)   The Advisory Board shall have the authority to hire such employees as
it deems to be necessary to carry out its mission. The Advisory Board shall be
solely responsible for the operation, activities and approval of the
expenditures of the Children’s Advocacy Center. The funds of the Children’s
Advocacy Center shall be subject to audit by the county.
(1993 Code, § 41.02)
§ 41.03 OPEN MEETINGS.
   The Advisory Board shall establish the time and place of the regularly
scheduled Board meetings in the manner in which special Board meetings may be
called. Its meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with the State
Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
(1993 Code, § 41.03) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-2002)
§ 41.04 REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   A member of the Advisory Board may be removed by the Chairperson of the
Advisory Board with the advice and consent of the Advisory Board, for neglect
of duty, misconduct or misfeasance in office after being given a written
statement of the charges and an opportunity to be heard.
(1993 Code, § 41.04) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-2002)
§ 41.05 TERM.
   Members shall be appointed to the Advisory Board for a term of one year
beginning December 1 and ending November 30 of the next year. Members shall
otherwise serve until their successor is appointed and takes his or her
position as a member. Vacancies shall be filled at the discretion of the
appointing authority for the balance of the expiring term.
(1993 Code, § 41.05) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-2002)
§ 41.06 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Any information or data obtained by any member of the Advisory Board or
serving on said Advisory Board shall be held completely confidential by the
members of said Board and its agents or employees.
(1993 Code, § 41.06) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-2002)
§ 41.07 ANNUAL BUDGET AND REPORT.
   (A)   The Advisory Board shall annually prepare and submit to the County
Board Chairperson, the County Clerk, the Finance Committee of the County Board
and the full County Board the following:
      (1)   An annual budget, to be considered, approved and appropriated as
part of the county budget, showing the estimated receipts and intended
disbursements pursuant to this chapter for the county fiscal year immediately
following the date the budget is submitted, which date must be at least 60 days
prior to the beginning of the county fiscal year; and
      (2)   An annual report detailing the income received and disbursements
made pursuant to this chapter during the fiscal year, just preceding the date
the annual report is submitted, which date must be within 30 days of the close
of the fiscal year.
   (B)   The annual report and budget shall be made available for public
inspection.
   (C)   All revenues and expenditures of the Board shall be made a part of the
county’s financial system for the purposes of county audit.
   (D)   The annual report shall include the names of the Advisory Board
members.
(1993 Code, § 41.07) (Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-17-2002)
TITLE V: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
50.   ANIMALS
      
51.   FIREWORKS
      
52.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
53.   NUISANCES
      
54.   PERMIT REGULATIONS
      
55.   FOOD SANITATION PROGRAM
      
56.   TRANSPORTATION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Short title
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Animal Care and Control Program
Administration
   
50.015   Administrator
   
50.016   Personnel and facilities
   
50.017   Funding
   
50.018   Authorization for requiring registration
   
50.019   Duties
   
50.020   Police power; cooperation of Police Department
   
50.021   Reserved
   
50.022   Inspections; entry
   
50.023   Fees for registration of dogs and cats
Impoundment
   
50.040   Impoundment
   
50.041   Registration of impounded dogs and cats
   
50.042   Notice of impoundment/return
   
50.043   Redemption of impounded animal; conditions for redemption
   
50.044   Animals not redeemed
   
50.045   Release without spaying or neutering prohibited
   
50.046   Humane societies exempt
   
50.047   Payment for rabies inoculation
   
50.048   Notice of picking up or confining strays to Animal Care and Control
   
50.049   Dogs and cats in heat
Reporting and Confinement After Biting
   
50.060   Confinement of animal after reported bite
   
50.061   Veterinarian to examine and report to Administrator
   
50.062   Confinement in owner’s house
   
50.063   Post-confinement examination of dog
   
50.064   Noncompliance; violations
   
50.065   Confinement period for animal which has bitten a person
   
50.066   Bite reporting and investigation
   
50.067   Sterilization of biting animals
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
50.080   Enforcement and authorization
   
50.081   Dangerous dogs
   
50.082   Control methods for dangerous dogs
   
50.083   Vicious dogs
   
50.084   Microchip identification of dangerous and vicious dogs
   
50.085   Appeals
   
50.086   Exemptions
   
50.087   Reckless owner
Liability
   
50.100   Liability of owner of dog attacking or injuring person
   
50.101   Killing of dog seen to injure, wound or kill farm animals
   
50.102   Liability of owner of dog causing damage to domestic animals
   
50.103   Exemption from liability
Claims and Reimbursement
   
50.115   Reimbursement procedure for owners of farm animals killed or injured
by dog
   
50.116   Reimbursement amounts
   
50.117   Claims for loss of animals killed or injured by dogs
   
50.118   Payment to owner not a bar to action for damages
Rabies Vaccinations and Rabies
   
50.130   General government powers in prevention of spread of rabies
   
50.131   Inoculation against rabies required annually; tags to be issued
   
50.132   Sale and distribution of vaccine
   
50.133   Vaccination tags provided by county; responsibility for each tag
issued
   
50.134   Vaccination tags honored in all counties
   
50.135   Recognized immunity period
   
50.136   Dogs exhibiting signs of rabies
   
50.137   Unvaccinated impounded dogs
   
50.138   Biting animal considered officially vaccinated
   
50.139   Brains of suspect animals to be submitted for examination
   
50.140   Biting animal not inoculated against rabies
   
50.141   Wild animals
Disposal/Destruction for Humane Reasons
   
50.160   Destruction of animals for humane reasons
   
50.161   Disposal of unwanted animals
Cruelty to Animals
   
50.175   Animal treatment
   
50.176   Animal fighting
   
50.177   Noncompliance
Fees and Animal Control Fund
   
50.190   Authority to require fees
   
50.191   Remittance of fees into Animal Control Fund
Nuisance Provisions
   
50.205   Nuisances
   
50.206   Penalty for nuisance violations
Community Cat Program
   
50.300   Definitions
   
50.301   Purpose
   
50.302   Community cats
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Animal Care and Control
Chapter.”
(1993 Code, § 50.001) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Public Health Administrator of the Madison County Health
Department who shall serve as defined in the Animal Control Act, 520 ILCS 5/
1 et seq.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature, other than humans, which may be affected by
rabies.
   ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL FACILITY. This term used herein describes a facility
qualifying under 510 ILCS 5/2.18, as may be amended, therein referred to as a
pound or animal control facility.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN/ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed
by the Administrator and approved by the Board to perform duties as assigned by
the Administrator to effectuate this chapter pursuant to the Illinois Animal
Control Act, the Illinois Humane Euthanasia in Animal Shelters Act, the
Illinois Humane Care for Animals Act, and the Illinois Animal Welfare Act.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day including holidays that the animal control facility is
open to the public for animal reclaims.
   CAT. All members of the species Felis catus.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. Any animal that is commonly considered to be, or is
considered by the owner to be, a pet, including, but not limited to canines,
feline, and equines.
   CONFINED. The restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or
her agent, to an escape proof building or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
   CONFINED UNDER THE OBSERVATION OF A LICENSED VETERINARIAN. Confined to an
escape proof building or other enclosure away from other animals and the
public, and observed daily by the Administrator or another licensed
veterinarian.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/2.05a, as may
be amended.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed by
the Administrator.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Agriculture of the state, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   DIVISION. The Division of Animal Industries of the State Department of
Agriculture.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMALS. Those animals that are tame and who live in or near
the habitations of human or by habit or special training in association with
humans.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures that may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the vicious dog within
the ENCLOSURE. The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE. If the ENCLOSURE is a room within a
residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the outdoors unless
it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be locked. A vicious dog
may be allowed to move about freely within an entire residence if it is muzzled
at all times.
   ESCAPE PROOF BUILDING. A building or kennel of such strength and structure
to keep a confined animal away from other animals and the public.
   FERAL CAT. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 2.11b, as may be
amended.
   FUR-BEARING ANIMALS. Any of the following species: badger, beaver, bobcat,
coyote, gray fox, mink, muskrat, opossum, raccoon, red fox, river otter,
striped skunk, weasel, woodchuck, wolf or any other wild animals for which the
rabies incubation period is unknown.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further includes
contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   HUMANELY DISPATCHED. The painless administration of a lethal dose of an
agent which shall cause the death of an animal as prescribed by the Veterinary
Medical Association Guidelines for the Euthanasia of Animals, and the Illinois
Humane Euthanasia in Animals Shelters Act. Said method shall not destroy brain
tissue necessary for laboratory examination for rabies. Animals shall be
handled prior to administration of the agent in such a manner as to avoid undue
apprehension by the animal.
   IN HEAT. Showing signs of estrus, a regularly occurring period of sexual
excitability in female members of the Canidae and Feline families.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
   INTACT ANIMAL. An animal that has not been sterilized to render it incapable
of reproducing.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap or chain which shall be of sufficient strength to
keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   OFFICIAL HEALTH CERTIFICATE. A legible record, made on an official form of
the state of origin, or the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service of the
United States Department of Agriculture, and issued by a licensed veterinarian
of the state of origin, a veterinarian in the employ of the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service or a veterinarian in the employ of the United States
Armed Services, which shows that the dog(s) or cat(s) listed thereon meet the
health requirements of the state. The OFFICIAL HEALTH CERTIFICATE shall contain
the name and address of the consignor; the name and address of the consignee;
an accurate description or identification including age, sex and breed of the
dog(s) involved; and shall also indicate the health status of the dog(s),
including the date(s) of vaccination(s), type of vaccine, name of manufacturer,
serial number and amount of vaccine administered.
   OFFICIALLY VACCINATED. The inoculation of a dog or cat with a vaccine as set
forth in 510 ILCS 5/8; administered by a licensed veterinarian by the route and
in the amount recommended by the producer of the vaccine and for which a county
rabies vaccination tag has been issued and properly recorded on a certificate
as prescribed by the Board.
   OWNER. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 2.16, as may be amended.
   PEACE OFFICER. Shall be defined in the Illinois Animal Control Act in
accordance with 510 ILCS 5/2.17a, as may be amended.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society, association
or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the state, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state, or any other business unit.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of physical condition.
   POUND. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/2.18, as may be
amended.
   PROGRAM. The animal care and control program of the county created and
operated in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   RECKLESS DOG OWNER. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 2.18b, as
may be amended.
   RECOGNIZED LABORATORY. A laboratory operated by the State Department of
Agriculture, the State Department of Public Health, any land grant university
or other laboratories approved by the Department of Public Health.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this chapter.
   RETURN. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/2.19-3, as may be
amended.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious disfigurement, protracted impairment of
health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or that is corrected by
plastic surgery.
   STRAY. A domesticated animal for which there is not an owner or apparent
owner.
   STRAYING. A domesticated animal not on the premises of the owner or not
confined or under control by leash or other recognized control methods as set
forth in 1, 2, 3, and 4 under (b) in 8 Ill. Adm. Code 30.140.
   VICIOUS DOG. Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/2.19b, as may be
amended.
   WILD ANIMAL. An undomesticated animal which still retains its wild nature
and whose habitat is generally the woods and which is untamed and
undomesticated, including, but not limited to, a wolf, coyote, or the offspring
of a mating between a wolf or coyote and a dog, including fur-bearing mammals.
(1993 Code, § 50.002) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022; Ord.
2022-07, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 50.003 ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL PROGRAM.
   The County Board and the Administrator shall create an animal care and
control program pursuant to the Illinois Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et
seq., which shall be renamed and hereafter officially identified as Madison
County Animal Care and Control, but shall operate in accordance with 510 ILCS
5/1 et seq. and fulfill all lawful requirements thereof.
(1993 Code, § 50.003) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 50.015 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The County Board Chairperson, with the consent of the
County Board, shall appoint as Administrator, pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/3.
Appointments shall be made as necessary to keep this position filled at all
times.
   (B)   Appointment of deputies. The Administrator may appoint as many Deputy
Administrators and animal care and control wardens or agents to aid him or her
consistent with the budget authorized by the Board. The wardens shall abide by
the provisions set forth in the Illinois Animal Control Act, the Illinois
Humane Care for Animals Act, the Illinois Animal Welfare Act, and the Illinois
Humane Euthanasia in Animal Shelters Act.
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation for the Administrator, Deputy
Administrators and animal control wardens or agents shall be fixed by the
Board.
   (D)   Removal. The Administrator may be removed from office by the County
Board Chairperson, with the consent of the County Board.
(1993 Code, § 50.015) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.016 PERSONNEL AND FACILITIES.
   The Board shall provide necessary personnel, training, equipment, supplies
and facilities and shall operate animal care and control facilities or contract
for their operation as necessary to effectuate the program. The Board may enter
into contracts or agreements with persons to assist in the operation of the
program.
(1993 Code, § 50.016) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.017 FUNDING.
   The Board shall be authorized to utilize monies from the county’s General
Corporate Fund and the Animal Control Fund to carry out the provisions and
intent of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 50.017) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.018 AUTHORIZATION FOR REQUIRING REGISTRATION.
   The Board is authorized by ordinance to require the registration and
microchipping of dogs and cats and shall impose an individual animal
registration fee. All persons selling dogs or cats or keeping registries of
dogs or cats shall cooperate and provide information to the Administrator as
required by the Board, including sales, number of litters and ownership of dogs
and cats. Registration requirements or fees shall not apply to feral cats
pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/8(e).
(1993 Code, § 50.018) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.019 DUTIES.
   (A)   Enforcement of chapter. The Administrator and the Administrator’s
deputies and agents and employees of the County Animal Care and Control
Department shall enforce and abide by all provisions of this chapter and all
policies and procedures set forth by the Animal Control Administrator and the
County Board.
   (B)   Enforcement of state animal control and humane laws. The Administrator
and the Administrator’s deputies and agents or employees of the County Animal
Control Department shall enforce and abide by all sections of the State Animal
Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., the State Humane Euthanasia in Animal
Shelters Act, 225 ILCS 605 et seq., the State Humane Care for Animals Act, 510
ILCS 70, and the Illinois Animal Welfare Act, 225 ILCS 605, including the rules
and regulations relating to the same as duly promulgated by the State
Department of Agriculture.
   (C)   Control and prevention of rabies. It shall be the duty of the
Administrator or Deputy Administrator, through sterilization, humane education,
rabies inoculation, stray control, impoundment, quarantine and any other means
deemed necessary in his or her discretion, to control and prevent the spread of
rabies in the county and to exercise dog and cat overpopulation control
pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/5. It shall also be the duty of the Administrator to
investigate and substantiate all claims made under Section 19 of the Animal
Control Act. Pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/5, those duties may include return,
adoption, transfer to rescues, or other animal shelter, and an other means of
ensuring live outcomes for homeless dogs and cats through sterilizations,
community outreach, impoundment of pets at risk, and any other humane means
deemed necessary to address strays and ensure live outcomes for dogs and cats
that are not a danger to the community or suffering irremediably.
(1993 Code, § 50.019) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.020 POLICE POWER; COOPERATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Police power. The Administrator, Deputy Administrators and animal
control wardens are, for the purpose of enforcing this chapter, clothed with
power of police officers in the county and with the county are peace officers
in the enforcement of this chapter, and of the similar provisions of the state
statutes relating to animals and rabies, including issuance and service of
citations and orders, and, as such peace officers have the power to make
arrests on view or warrants for violations of this chapter and to execute and
serve all warrants and processes issued by any Circuit Court; however, such
officers are prohibited from carrying concealed weapons.
   (B)   Cooperation of Police Department. The Sheriff and his or her deputies
and municipal police officers shall cooperate with the Administrator in
carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the state statutes.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Administrator, Deputy Administrators and animal
control wardens shall aid in the enforcement of the Humane Care for Animals
Act, 510 ILCS 70/1 et seq., and shall have the ability to impound animals and
apply for security posting for violation of that Act.
(1993 Code, § 50.020) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.021 RESERVED.
§ 50.022 INSPECTIONS; ENTRY.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the State
Humane Care for Animals Act, 510 ILCS 70/, the Administrator, or his or her
authorized representatives, agents or deputies, or any law enforcement officer,
may enter upon private premises, provided that the entry shall not be made into
any building that is a person’s residence, to apprehend a straying dog or other
animal, a dangerous or vicious dog or other animal, or a dog or other animal
thought to be infected with rabies. If, after request therefor, the owner of
the dog or other animal shall refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the
officer, the owner shall be in violation of this chapter and of the State
Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
(1993 Code, § 50.022) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 FEES FOR REGISTRATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   The annual fees imposed for the registration of dogs and cats will be
set by the County Board.
   (B)   Feral cats are exempt from the registration fees provided in this
section pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/8.
   (C)   Ten dollars of the registration fee for each intact dog or cat shall
be remitted to the Illinois Pet Population Control Fund. The Board may,
however, by resolution establish a county animal population control fund as
authorized by the Illinois Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and
redirect said $10 to said county fund to the extent permitted by law.
   (D)   Madison County Animal Care and Control Department will designate
grants from the County Pet Population Control Fund, determining which
organization will receive grant funds, with the approval of the Madison County
Board.
(1993 Code, § 50.023) (Ord. 93-11, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2008-12, passed 9-17-2008; Ord.
21, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2019-04, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2021-08, passed 11-
17-2021; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 50.040 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any dog found running at large, contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, shall be apprehended and impounded by the Animal Control
Administrator. For this purpose, the Administrator may utilize any existing or
available public pounds or animal control facility. The dog’s owner shall pay a
$25 public safety fine, $20 of which shall be deposited into the State Pet
Population Control Fund and $5 of which shall be retained by the county.
   (B)   Any dog running at large within the county on any public way or public
place, or upon the private premises of any person other than those of the
keeper of the dog, shall be considered a stray and shall be considered to have
been found running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
whenever:
      (1)   The dog is not on the premises of its owner or keeper and is not
under control by leash or other recognized control methods; unless:
         (a)   The dog is upon private premises, in the presence and company
and under supervision of its owner, and an adult individual with an ownership
or possessory interest in the premises consents to the dog’s presence on his or
her premises; or
         (b)   The dog is upon public premises that specifically allow dogs to
be present off-leash, and the dog is in the presence and company and under
supervision of its owner.
      (2)   The dog does not bear a current rabies inoculation tag as required
by this chapter.
   (C)   Any cat six months of age or older that has not been spayed or
neutered that is found running at large may be impounded.
   (D)   When a dog or cat is apprehended and impounded by the Animal Control
Administrator, or his or her deputies, wardens or agents, the animal shall be
scanned by the Administrator for the presence of a microchip. The Administrator
shall make every reasonable attempt to contact the owner, or caretaker, or
purchaser of the microchip as soon as possible pursuant to the Illinois Animal
Welfare Act, the Humane Euthanasia in Animal Shelters Act, and any procedures
and policies or contracts set forth by the Administrator or the County Board’s
Public Safety Committee.
   (E)   The owner, caretaker, purchaser, or contact shall be entitled to
resume possession of any impounded dog or cat upon compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, if not already in compliance therewith, and the
payment of boarding fees and other charges as determined by the Administrator.
If the animal is not reclaimed it shall be offered for adoption to rescue or
animal shelters for placement.
   (F)   The Administrator may waive the payment of any fees for good cause.
(1993 Code, § 50.040) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.041 REGISTRATION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS AND CATS.
   The County Animal Control Department, upon receiving any dog or cat, shall
immediately make a complete registry thereof. Such registry should include the
sex, whether or not the animal has been sterilized if discernible, breed and
color of the animal; the tag number, if available; the microchip number; a
notation as to whether the animal is registered; and the owner’s name and last
known address.
(1993 Code, § 50.041) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.042 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   When a dog or cat is apprehended, it may be returned or
impounded. If impounded by the Administrator, the animal shall be scanned for
the presence of a microchip. The Administrator or Animal Care and Control
Warden shall make every reasonable attempt to contact the owner, caretaker, or
purchaser of the microchip, or any contact as soon as possible. The
Administrator shall give notice of not less than seven business days to the
owner, caretaker, or purchaser of the microchip, if known, prior to disposal of
the animal. Where the owner, caretaker, or purchaser of the microchip of an
impounded dog or cat is unknown, the dog or cat may be humanely dispatched only
after all reasonable attempts have been made, over a period of not less than
ten days to place the animal with/through a rescue group, humane organization,
or animal shelter. Where the owner, caretaker, or purchaser of an impounded cat
is unknown, the cat may be humanely dispatched or offered to a rescue group or
humane organization or animal shelter, after three business days.
      (2)   Any sick or injured dog or cat, or any litter of puppies or kittens
may be immediately released to any licensed rescue group or animal shelter.
   (B)   Notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner.
Testimony of the Administrator, or his or her authorized agent, who mails the
notice shall be evidence of the receipt of the notice by the owner of the
animal.
(1993 Code, § 50.042) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.043 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMAL; CONDITIONS FOR REDEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   In case the owner or caretaker of any impounded dog or cat
desires to make redemption thereof, he or she may do so by doing the following:
         (a)   Presenting proof of current rabies inoculation, and
registration, if applicable;
         (b)   Paying for rabies inoculation of the dog or cat and
registration, if applicable;
         (c)   Paying the pound for the board of the dog or cat for the period
it was impounded;
         (d)   Paying into the Animal Control Fund an additional impoundment
fee as prescribed by the Board as a penalty for the first offense and for each
subsequent offense;
         (e)   Paying a $25 public safety fine to be deposited into the Pet
Population Control Fund: if it is the dog’s or cat’s first impoundment and the
owner has the animal spayed or neutered within 14 days of redemption and
provides proof of same to the Administrator, the fine shall be refunded; and
         (f)   Paying for microchipping and registration if not already done.
      (2)   The payments required for redemption under this section shall be in
addition to any other penalties invoked under this chapter and the State Public
Health and Safety Animal Population Control Act, 510 ILCS 92/1 et seq.
   (B)   If an intact dog or cat has been impounded by the Administrator for a
second or subsequent time, the animal may only be redeemed if the owner or
other individual desiring to redeem the animal makes arrangements approved by
the Administrator to spay or neuter the animal within 30 days of redemption.
The redeeming individual must pay a deposit of $150 to the Administrator as a
guarantee that he or she will comply with this sterilization requirement. If
the redeeming individual submits satisfactory proof of sterilization to the
Administrator at or before the end of the 30-day period, the deposit shall be
refunded. If the redeeming individual fails to submit such proof, the $150
deposit shall be forfeited to the county, and if the animal is a dog, the
Administrator shall impound it.
   (C)   This shall be in addition to any other penalties invoked under state
law or statutes and this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 50.043) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.044 ANIMALS NOT REDEEMED.
   When not redeemed by the owner, agent or caretaker, a dog or cat that has
been impounded must be scanned for a microchip. If a microchip is present, the
registered owner, caretaker, or microchip purchaser must be notified and a
record kept of the notification. After contact has been made or attempted, dogs
or cats or other animals shall be made available to a licensed humane society,
animal shelter, or rescue group. If no placement is available, it shall be
humanely dispatched pursuant to the Humane Euthanasia in Animal Shelters Act,
510 ILCS 72/1 et seq.
(1993 Code, § 50.044) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 21, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2022-
01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.045 RELEASE WITHOUT SPAYING OR NEUTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Madison County Animal Care and Control Department shall release
any dog or cat when not redeemed by the owner unless the animal has been
rendered incapable of reproduction and microchipped.
   (B)   No animal shelter shall release dogs or cats to an individual
representing a rescue group unless the group has been licensed by the State
Department of Agriculture or is a representative of a not-for-profit out-of-
state organization. Any rescue group receiving animals can transfer those
animals to another licensed rescue group or animal shelter. The Administrator
will report any animal shelters violating this section to the State Department
of Agriculture for investigation.
(1993 Code, § 50.045) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.046 HUMANE SOCIETIES EXEMPT.
   This chapter shall not prevent humane societies, rescue groups, or animal
welfare groups from engaging in activities set forth by their charters;
provided they are not inconsistent with provisions of this chapter and other
existing state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 50.046) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.047 PAYMENT FOR RABIES INOCULATION.
   Any person purchasing or gaining ownership of an impounded dog, with or
without charge or donation, must pay for the rabies inoculation of the dog or
cat, and registration if applicable. Pursuant to the Illinois Animal Control
Act, feral cats are only required to be vaccinated for rabies when they are
sterilized.
(1993 Code, § 50.047) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.048 NOTICE OF PICKING UP OR CONFINING STRAYS TO ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL.
   (A)   In order to prevent the destruction of lost pets and to provide owners
with a central facility through which to locate stray pets, the public pound
shall be notified within 24 hours by any private agency, organization, nuisance
wildlife control operator or individual picking up or confining a stray animal.
   (B)   A private organization or nuisance wildlife control operator confining
a stray domestic animal must turn the animal over to the Administrator and no
private individual, nuisance wildlife control operator or organization shall
dispose of stray animals by killing or abandonment. Return programs are not
abandonment.
   (C)   This section shall not prevent farmers from exercising any right they
may have to destroy animals attacking their livestock or poultry.
   (D)   Any nuisance wildlife control operator conducting business in this
county must follow the provisions set forth in the State Humane Care for
Animals Act, 510 ILCS 70/, and the State Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et
seq.
   (E)   Nuisance wildlife control operators may only pick-up wild animals and
are prohibited from picking up any stray cats or dogs.
(1993 Code, § 50.048) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.049 DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   The owner of any female dog or cat which is in heat shall not keep, harbor
or otherwise maintain such dog or cat in the unincorporated parts of the county
unless the dog or cat is confined in a secure enclosure during the entire
period the dog or cat is in heat, except that it shall be lawful for a dog or
cat in heat to be walked if the dog or cat remains on a leash and is not
permitted to run at large. Any dog or cat in heat which is not so confined will
be declared to be a public nuisance and may be apprehended by the County Animal
Health Department and the Administrator or his or her deputies or agents.
(1993 Code, § 50.049) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
REPORTING AND CONFINEMENT AFTER BITING
§ 50.060 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL AFTER REPORTED BITE.
   When the Administrator receives information that any person has been bitten
by a dog or other animal, the Administrator or his or her authorized
representative shall have that dog or other animal confined under observation
of a licensed veterinarian for a period of ten days. The Department may, by
regulation, permit the confinement to be reduced to a period of less than ten
days.
(1993 Code, § 50.060) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.061 VETERINARIAN TO EXAMINE AND REPORT TO ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog or
other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing to the Administrator
within 24 hours after the dog or other animal is presented for examination,
giving the owner’s name, address, the date of confinement, the breed,
description, age and sex of the dog or other animal, on appropriate forms
approved by the Department.
   (B)   The Administrator shall notify the attending physician or responsible
health agency.
   (C)   At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall submit a
written report to the Administrator advising him or her of the final
disposition of the dog or other animal on appropriate forms approved by the
Department.
(1993 Code, § 50.061) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.062 CONFINEMENT IN OWNER’S HOUSE.
   (A)   When evidence is presented that the dog or other animal was inoculated
against rabies within the time prescribed by law, it may be confined in the
house of its owner, or in a manner which will prohibit it from biting any
person for a period of ten days, if the Administrator, or other licensed
veterinarian, adjudges such confinement satisfactory.
   (B)   The Department, by regulation, permit such confinement to be reduced
to a period of less than ten days.
(1993 Code, § 50.062) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.063 POST-CONFINEMENT EXAMINATION OF DOG.
   At the end of the confinement period, the dog or other animal shall be
examined by the Administrator, or another licensed veterinarian.
(1993 Code, § 50.063) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.064 NONCOMPLIANCE; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Mandatory notification. It is a violation of this subchapter, as well
as state law, for any person having knowledge that any person has been bitten
by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the Administrator promptly.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other
animal to euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog or
other animal known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the
Administrator, or his or her authorized representative.
   (C)   Mandatory compliance with instructions. It is a violation of this
subchapter and state law for the owner of the dog or other animal to refuse or
fail to comply with the written or printed instructions made by the
Administrator, or his or her authorized representative. If such instructions
cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the owner of the dog or
other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The affidavit or testimony of
the Administrator, or his or her authorized representative, delivering or
mailing such instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner of the dog or
other animal was notified of his or her responsibilities.
   (D)   Incurred expenses. Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog or
other animal under this subchapter shall be borne by the owner. The owner of a
biting animal must also remit to the State Department of Public Health, for
deposit into the Pet Population Control Fund, a $25 public safety fine within
30 days after notice.
(1993 Code, § 50.064) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.065 CONFINEMENT PERIOD FOR ANIMAL WHICH HAS BITTEN A PERSON.
   (A)   This subchapter provides that, when approved by the Administrator or
his or her authorized representative, the confinement period for an animal
which has bitten a person may be reduced to less than ten days following a bite
when:
      (1)   It is deemed advisable for humane reasons, i.e., injury or disease
conditions;
      (2)   The animal inflicting the bite had been maintained in a controlled
environment in a research institution for a period of at least six months, or
for the life of the animal;
      (3)   Rabies treatments may endanger the life of the person bitten;
      (4)   Written permission is obtained from the owner of the biting animal;
or
      (5)   The animal is deemed to be a stray by the Administrator.
   (B)   When the animal is confined for a period of less than ten days, it
shall be euthanized at the end of the confinement period and the brain
submitted direct to a recognized laboratory for rabies examination. It shall be
the responsibility of the person requesting the reduced confinement period to
assure that the brain is transported without delay, to a recognized laboratory
so it will arrive in a satisfactory condition for rabies examination.
   (C)   When a person has been bitten by a police dog that is currently
vaccinated against rabies, the police dog may continue to perform its duties
for the peace officer or law enforcement agency, and any period of observation
of the police dog may be under the supervision of a peace officer. The
supervision shall consist of the dog being locked in a kennel, performing its
official duties in a police vehicle, or remaining under the constant
supervision of its police handler.
(1993 Code, § 50.065) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.066 BITE REPORTING AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any medical or law
enforcement personnel, or any other person knowing that a person has been
bitten by an animal or having reason to believe that the wet saliva has come
into direct contact with fresh, open or raw preexistent abrasions or mucous
membranes, to refuse or fail to notify the County Animal Control Department
immediately. For the purposes of this section, IMMEDIATELY means by telephone,
in person or by other than use of the mail.
   (B)   Upon receiving a bite report, the County Animal Control Department
shall record all pertinent information on a standardized form. Records should
show that after a bite report is received, it has been investigated and, if
possible, the biting animal confined. Investigation may include contact with
the person bitten, the parent or guardian of a minor, the attending physician,
the veterinarian and any other appropriate source in order to coordinate
information, refer patients and recommend treatment.
   (C)   The County Animal Control Department will, upon request, take
appropriate measures to assist municipalities in the apprehension of biting
animals.
(1993 Code, § 50.066) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.067 STERILIZATION OF BITING ANIMALS.
   When an animal has been impounded by the Administrator due to a bite report,
and the animal has been documented to have bitten a human on at least two
separate occasions, the animal may not be released unless the animal has been
sterilized, or the owner makes arrangements approved by the Administrator to
sterilize the animal.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01,
passed 3-16-2022)
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 50.080 ENFORCEMENT AND AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The County Board, the Administrator and their agents, employees and
assigns shall comply with and enforce all provisions of the State Animal
Control Act (510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.), the Illinois Humane Euthanasia in Animal
Shelters Act (510 ILCS 72 et seq.), the State Humane Care for Animals Act (510
ILCS 70), the Illinois Animal Welfare Act (225 ILCS 605), and the applicable
regulations duly promulgated by the State Department of Agriculture as
pertaining to vicious or dangerous dogs or other animals.
   (B)   The State’s Attorney of the county is specifically authorized by the
County Board to file a complaint to enjoin all persons from maintaining or
protecting dangerous dogs, vicious dogs, or animals and the State’s Attorney is
specifically directed to abate the same and to enjoin the owner of a dangerous
dog, vicious dog, or other animal to prevent the animal from leaving the
premises of its owner pursuant to law and the aforesaid statute.
(1993 Code, § 50.080) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-
16-2000; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord.
2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.081 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   The Administrator shall follow all statutory procedures set forth in
510 ILCS 5/15.1 in determining whether to declare a dog to be a dangerous dog.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dog or other animal declared dangerous to leave the premises of
its owner when not under control by a recognized control method as provided in
this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   If deemed dangerous, the Administrator shall order:
         (a)   The dog’s owner to pay a $50 public safety fine to be deposited
into the Pet Population Control Fund; and
         (b)   The dog to be spayed or neutered within 14 days at the owner’s
expense and microchipped, if not already done.
      (2)   The Administrator is also specifically authorized to order the
owner of any dog or other animal declared dangerous to comply with one or more
of the following as deemed appropriate under the circumstances for the
protection of the public:
         (a)   Evaluation of the dog by a certified applied behaviorist, a
board certified veterinary behaviorist or other recognized expert in the field
and completion of training or other such treatment as deemed appropriate by
such expert. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated
with evaluations and training ordered under this division (C)(2); and
         (b)   Direct supervision by a competent adult 18 years of age or older
and physically capable of controlling the animal whenever it is on public
premises.
   (D)   The County Animal Control Department has the right to impound a
dangerous dog if the owner fails to comply with any requirements of the State
Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., or the county animal control
ordinance.
   (E)   A municipality shall be assessed a fee of not less than $150 for an
emergency call out that is requested by the municipality and made by an Animal
Control Officer. This fee shall not be assessed for bite cases when the
municipality transports an unvaccinated animal to the animal control facility.
(1993 Code, § 50.081) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-
16-2000; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord.
21, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.082 CONTROL METHODS FOR DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The following shall be accepted as recognized control methods for dangerous
dogs:
   (A)   Placing an animal within an enclosed automobile, truck or other
vehicle not being used as public conveyance of humans, in a manner not
inconsistent with the Humane Care for Animals Act (510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.);
   (B)   Shipping an animal on a public conveyance that is properly confined in
a shipping container conspicuously labeled “DANGEROUS ANIMAL” and constructed
of materials in such a manner to prevent the animal from biting other animals
or the public;
   (C)   Properly muzzling an animal and placing it on a leash of not more than
six feet in length and of sufficient strength to keep the animal under control,
and held by a competent person capable of controlling the animal; or
   (D)   Confining the animal on the premises of the owner in such a manner as
to prevent its coming into contact with the general public or any domesticated
animal owned by another member of the general public.
(1993 Code, § 50.082) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-
16-2000; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord.
2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.083 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   A vicious dog includes any such dog so declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction, as determined by 510 ILCS 5/15.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      (1)   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary
care for the dog;
      (2)   In the case of an emergency or natural disaster where the dog’s
life is threatened; or
      (3)   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
provided that the dog is securely muzzled and restrained with a leash not
exceeding three feet in length, and the dog is under the direct control of the
owner or keeper of the dog, provided that person is a competent adult 18 years
of age or older who is physically capable of controlling the dog.
   (C)   Vicious dog determinations.
      (1)   The Administrator and the State’s Attorney shall follow the
procedures set forth in 510 ILCS 5/15(a) to investigate and, if appropriate,
seek a judicial determination that a given dog should be declared to be
vicious.
      (2)   The Administrator shall determine where an animal sought to be
declared vicious shall be confined during the pendency of the case. The owner
of the dog sought to be declared shall be responsible for any costs associated
with the confinement of the animal during the pendency of the case.
      (3)   If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the owner shall pay a $100
public safety fine to be deposited into the Pet Population Control Fund, and
the dog shall be microchipped and spayed or neutered within ten days of the
finding at the expense of its owner, if any such procedure has not already been
previously done, and the dog is subject to enclosure. A dog found to be a
vicious dog shall not be released to the owner until the Administrator inspects
and approves the enclosure where the animal is to be kept. If an owner fails to
comply with these requirements, the Administrator shall impound the dog and the
owner shall pay a $500 fine plus impoundment fees to the County Animal Control
Department. The court has the discretion to order that a vicious dog be
euthanized.
   (D)   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog
without approval from the court or the Administrator. Whenever the owner or
keeper of a vicious dog within the county relocates outside the county, he or
she shall notify the Administrator. Whenever the owner or keeper of a dog
declared vicious in another county of the state, or comparably designated under
the laws of another state, relocates to the county, he or she shall notify the
Administrator. When the owner of a vicious dog relocates to or within the
county, the Administrator must inspect and approve the enclosure in which the
vicious dog is to be kept.
   (E)   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not
confined to an enclosure is subject to impoundment by the Administrator, an
animal control warden or the law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in
the area. If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the
Circuit Court within 15 working days, the dog may be euthanized. Upon filing of
a notice of appeal, the order of euthanasia shall be automatically stayed
pending the outcome of the appeal. The owner shall bear the burden of timely
notification to the Administrator in writing.
(1993 Code, § 50.083) (Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-16-2000; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.084 MICROCHIP IDENTIFICATION OF DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog, or other animal that has been declared dangerous or vicious
by the Administrator shall have a microchip approved by the Administrator
implanted. The microchip number shall be registered with the Administrator. The
microchip shall be implanted within 30 days of the animal’s designation as
dangerous or vicious.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or other animal declared
to be dangerous or vicious to fail to comply with division (A) above.
(1993 Code, § 50.084) (Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-16-2000; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.085 APPEALS.
   The owner of a dog that has been declared by the Administrator to be
dangerous may appeal said designation within the statutory time limit to the
Circuit Court pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/15.3.
(1993 Code, § 50.085) (Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-16-2000; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.086 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard or police owned dogs are exempt from
the restrictions contained in §§
50.081,
50.082 and
50.083, provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The attack or injury occurred while the dog was performing duties
as expected; and
      (2)   The dog was and continues to be inoculated against rabies in
accordance with the State Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., and county
ordinances requiring same.
   (B)   The owner of any dog exempted under division (A) above shall provide
the Administrator with a description of the dog, its breed, its name and any
other identifying characteristics requested by the Administrator, and shall
further notify the Administrator of any change of address.
   (C)   The owner of any sentry or guard dog exempted under division (A) above
shall keep the Administrator advised of the location where the dog will be
stationed.
   (D)   Any dog exempted under division (A) above, when not under the direct
control by leash and muzzle or other recognized control methods, shall be
confined in such a manner as to prevent it from attacking or injuring any
person who is peacefully conducting himself or herself where he or she lawfully
may be.
(1993 Code, § 50.086) (Ord. 2000-02, passed 2-16-2000; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.087 RECKLESS OWNER.
   Shall be defined pursuant to the Illinois Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 15.5,
as may be amended.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
LIABILITY
§ 50.100 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF DOG ATTACKING OR INJURING PERSON.
   If a dog or other animal, without provocation, attacks or injures any person
who is peaceably conducting himself or herself in any place where he or she may
lawfully be, the owner of the dog or other animal is liable in damages to such
person for the full amount of the injury sustained.
(1993 Code, § 50.100) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.101 KILLING OF DOG SEEN TO INJURE, WOUND OR KILL FARM ANIMALS.
   Any owner seeing his or her livestock, poultry or equidae being injured,
wounded or killed by a dog, not accompanied by or not under the supervision of
its owner, may kill the dog.
(1993 Code, § 50.101) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.102 LIABILITY OF OWNER OF DOG CAUSING DAMAGE TO DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog is liable to a person for all damages caused by
the dog pursuing, chasing, worrying, wounding, injuring or killing any sheep,
goats, cattle, horses, mules, poultry or swine belonging to that person.
(1993 Code, § 50.102) (Ord, 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.103 EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY.
   The County Animal Health Department, its agents, representatives or other
persons authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter, shall not be held
liable for the injury, death or diseased condition of any dog, cat or other
animal as a consequence of the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
except in cases of willful or wanton misconduct.
(1993 Code, § 50.103) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
CLAIMS AND REIMBURSEMENT
§ 50.115 REIMBURSEMENT PROCEDURE FOR OWNERS OF FARM ANIMALS KILLED OR INJURED
BY DOG.
   (A)   Any owner having livestock, poultry or equidae killed or injured by a
dog shall, according to the provisions of the State Animal Control Act, 510
ILCS 5/1 et seq., and upon filing claim and making proper proof, be entitled to
receive reimbursement for such losses from the County Animal Control Fund;
provided he or she is a resident of this state and such injury or killing is
reported to the Administrator within 24 hours after the injury or killing
occurs, and made affidavit stating the number of animals or poultry killed or
injured, the amount of damages and the owner of the dog causing the killing or
injury, if known.
   (B)   The damages referred to in this section shall be substantiated by the
Administrator through prompt investigation and by not less than two witnesses.
The Administrator shall determine whether the provisions of this section have
been met and shall keep a record in each case of the names of the owners of the
animals or poultry, the damages proven and the number of animals or poultry
killed or injured.
   (C)   The Administrator shall file a written report with the County
Treasurer as to the right of an owner of livestock, poultry or equidae to be
paid out of the Animal Control Fund and the amount of such damages claimed.
(1993 Code, § 50.115) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.116 REIMBURSEMENT AMOUNTS.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall, on the first Monday in March of each
calendar year, pay to the owner of the animals or poultry the amount of damages
to which he or she is entitled. Unless the County Board, by ordinance,
establishes a schedule for damages allowed for grade animals or poultry shall
not exceed the following amounts:
      (1)   For goats killed or injured, $30 per head;
      (2)   For cattle killed or injured, $300 per head;
      (3)   For horses or mules killed or injured, $200 per head;
      (4)   For swine killed or injured, $50 per head;
      (5)   For turkeys killed or injured, $5 per head;
      (6)   For sheep killed or injured, $30 per head; and
      (7)   For all poultry other than turkeys, $1 per head.
   (B)   The maximum amounts herein above set forth may be increased 50% for
animals for which the owner can present a certificate of registry of the
appropriate breed association or organization. However, if there is not
sufficient money in the portion of the fund set aside to pay all claims for
damages in full, then the County Treasurer shall pay to such owner of animals
or poultry his or her pro rata share of the money available.
(1993 Code, § 50.116) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.117 CLAIMS FOR LOSS OF ANIMALS KILLED OR INJURED BY DOGS.
   (A)   An owner making claim for loss of animals or poultry killed or injured
by dogs shall report the loss to the Administrator within 24 hours after the
loss occurs, shall have not less than two witnesses who are freeholders of the
county substantiate the loss within 48 hours after the loss occurs, and shall
appear before a member of the County Board within seven days after the loss to
make affidavit.
   (B)   The Administrator or the person designated by him or her shall make an
investigation, shall observe the animals in question, and shall visit the site
where the animals were killed or injured. If the investigator is not a
veterinarian and cannot confirm the claim to be valid, then the Administrator
shall examine the animals or poultry and make written report to be filed with
the County Treasurer as to the cause of death. If the report does not
substantiate loss caused by dogs, the claim shall be denied by the Board.
   (C)   Applications used in making claims for damages for animals or poultry
killed or injured by dogs shall be on forms as prescribed by the Department.
Such forms shall include the amount of claim, the amount paid for each claim,
the number and kind of animals or poultry killed or injured by dogs, and
whether the animals were grade, or crossbred, hybrid, inbred and purebred
animals registered with an appropriate breed association or organization. In
the case of animals registered with an appropriate breed association or
organization, the owner shall surrender the certificate of registry to the
county. A copy of the certificate shall be maintained in the county records and
the original certificate of registry shall be immediately forwarded to the
appropriate breed association or organization for cancellation. Claim forms
shall be available from the Administrator, County Treasurer, Board members and
other county officials designated by the Board.
   (D)   All costs for the two witnesses to substantiate claims for loss of
animals or poultry shall be paid by the owner of the animals or poultry. The
Administrator or veterinarian requested by the Administrator to examine animals
or poultry for which a claim has been made shall be paid from the Animal
Control Fund if the loss is determined to be caused by dogs. If the
veterinarian determines that the loss is due to some other cause, the cost of
his or her services shall be borne by the claimant.
   (E)   The County Treasurer shall annually provide the Department an itemized
list of claims showing the number and kind of animals or poultry killed or
injured by dogs, whether the animals were grade, crossbred, hybrid, inbred and
purebred animals registered with an appropriate breed association or
organization, the amount of claim and the amount paid for each claim. This
report shall be submitted not later than April 1 of each year.
   (F)   For the purpose of this chapter, POULTRY means chickens, ducks and
geese, and shall not include domestic rabbits, guinea fowl, peafowl, pigeons,
pheasants, quail and waterfowl covered by the state or federal game codes.
Also, for the purpose of this chapter, animals other than goats, cattle,
horses, mules, swine, sheep and poultry as defined in this section, even though
kept in captivity, are not eligible for payment under this subchapter.
(1993 Code, § 50.117) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.118 PAYMENT TO OWNER NOT A BAR TO ACTION FOR DAMAGES.
   The payment to any owner of livestock, poultry or equidae of monies out of
the Animal Control Fund for damages resulting from loss or injury to any of
these animals, shall not be a bar to action by the owner against the owner of
the dog committing such injury or causing the loss for the recovery of damages
therefor. The Court or jury, before which the action is tried, shall ascertain
from evidence what portion, if any, of the damages sought to be recovered in
such action has been paid to the plaintiff in the action by the County
Treasurer, and in case the plaintiff in the action recovers damages, the Court
shall enter judgment against the defendant, in the name of the plaintiff for
the use of the county, for the amount which the plaintiff has received on
account of the damages from the County Treasurer, and the residue of the
recovery, if any there be, shall be entered in the name of the plaintiff in the
action to his or her own use. If the amount of the recovery in the action shall
not equal the amount previously paid the plaintiff on account of damages by the
County Treasurer, then the judgment shall be entered as heretofore stated for
the use of the Animal Control Fund, for the full amount of the recovery. The
judgment shall show on its face what portion of the judgment is to be paid to
the Animal Control Fund, and what portion is to be paid to the plaintiff in the
action, and the judgment when collected shall be paid over to the parties
entitled thereto in their proper proportions.
(1993 Code, § 50.118) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
RABIES VACCINATIONS AND RABIES
§ 50.130 GENERAL GOVERNMENT POWERS IN PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF RABIES.
   (A)   Whenever a case of rabies has occurred in a locality, or when the
proper officials of a government unit are apprehensive of the spread of rabies,
the State Department of Agriculture and the County Animal Control Department
shall act to prevent its spread among dogs and other animals. The Department of
Agriculture may order:
      (1)   That all dogs or other animals in the locality be:
         (a)   Kept confined within an enclosure; or
         (b)   Kept muzzled and restrained by leash.
      (2)   That all owners or keepers of dogs or other animals take
prophylactic measures as it deems necessary to prevent the spread of rabies.
The Administrator and the County Animal Control Department shall assist in the
implementation and enforcement of the aforesaid orders; and
      (3)   Other measures as may be necessary to control the spread of rabies.
   (B)   The County Animal Control Department or the Administrator may also
determine the area of the locality in which, and the period of time during
which, such orders shall be effective.
(1993 Code, § 50.130) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.131 INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES REQUIRED ANNUALLY; TAGS TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat four or more months of age shall cause the
dog or cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian each
year, or remain current from a previous inoculation. New residents of the
county owning or keeping a dog or owning a cat four or more months of age shall
register the animal with the Administrator within 30 days after establishing
residence in the county. Evidence of the rabies inoculation shall be entered on
a certificate the form of which shall be approved by the Board, and which shall
contain the microchip number of the animal if it has one and which shall be
signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine. The Board shall
cause a rabies inoculation tag to be issued at a fee established by the Board,
for each dog or cat inoculated against rabies. Pursuant to the Illinois Animal
Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/8, feral cats are exempt from these requirements.
   (B)   If a licensed veterinarian determines in writing that a rabies
inoculation would compromise an animal’s health, then the animal shall be
exempt from the rabies shot requirement, but the owner must still be
responsible for registration and any other applicable fees. In the event the
animal bites a person, the animal will be subject to quarantine under
veterinary supervision as an unvaccinated animal.
(1993 Code, § 50.131) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.132 SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF VACCINE.
   Rabies vaccine for use on animals shall be sold or distributed only to and
used only by licensed veterinarians. Such rabies vaccine shall be licensed by
the United States Department of Agriculture and approved by the Department.
(1993 Code, § 50.132) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.133 VACCINATION TAGS PROVIDED BY COUNTY; RESPONSIBILITY FOR EACH TAG
ISSUED.
   (A)   Rabies vaccination tags. Rabies vaccination tags for dogs shall be
furnished by the county. The Administrator or other county official designated
by the Board shall record the name and address of each person to whom rabies
vaccination tags are issued. The person receiving the tags shall be held
accountable for each tag, and shall return all unused tags upon their
expiration. If that person fails to account for each tag, or refuses to return
unused tags, the county will assess a $5 charge for each tag and may withhold
issuance of additional tags to that person.
   (B)   Veterinarians. Veterinarians who inoculate a dog or cat shall procure
from the county animal control in the county where their office is located
serially numbered tags, one to be issued with each inoculation certificate.
Only one dog or cat shall be included on each certificate. The veterinarian
immunizing or microchipping an animal shall provide the Administrator of the
county in which the animal resides with a certificate of immunization and
microchip number. The Board shall cause a rabies inoculation tag to be issued,
at a fee, set forth in §
50.023, for each dog inoculated against rabies.
   (C)   Procurement of serial number tags. In accordance with 510 ILCS 5/8 and
effective January 1, 2012, veterinarians shall procure from the county animal
control office serial number tags, one to be issued with each inoculation
certificate. This procurement may be made following one of the following
options.
      (1)   Procurement in advance. Veterinarians may pre-purchase tags.
Veterinarians are allowed to return up to 100 unused tags for credit at the end
of the year.
      (2)   Estimated amount of tags. An estimated amount of rabies tags are
provided upfront and payments required each month. This may be done under
either of the following arrangements:
         (a)   Veterinarians collect the tag fee and remit to the Animal
Control Department; or
         (b)   Direct billing. Veterinarians may be billed on a monthly basis
for the total costs of tags issued during the previous month.
   (D)   Tag to be attached. The rabies vaccination tag shall be attached to a
collar or harness and worn at all times by the dog for which the certificate
and tag have been issued, except when such dog is confined.
(1993 Code, § 50.133) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 21, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.134 VACCINATION TAGS HONORED IN ALL COUNTIES.
   (A)   A rabies vaccination tag and certificate shall be honored until
expiration when ownership of a dog is transferred into the county while the dog
is in transit, or if the owner has established residence in another county.
   (B)   Dogs inoculated against rabies prior to entry into the state shall be
recognized as officially vaccinated if the Administrator is presented evidence
that such inoculation was administered by a licensed veterinarian with a
vaccine licensed in 8 Ill. Adm. Code 30.90. The evidence shall include the date
(s) of vaccination(s), type of vaccine, name of manufacturer, serial number and
amount of vaccine administered.
(1993 Code, § 50.134) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.135 RECOGNIZED IMMUNITY PERIOD.
   The provisions of the State Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., as to
the recognized immunity period of animal rabies vaccines, as well as the
sections concerning rabid animal procedures for revaccination, confinement or
destruction shall be the same and are hereby declared to be made part of this
chapter by reference and the Administrator shall enforce the statute, as well
as the rules and regulations of the State Department of Agriculture
appertaining thereto.
(1993 Code, § 50.135) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.136 DOGS EXHIBITING SIGNS OF RABIES.
   The owner of any dog or other animal which exhibits clinical signs of
rabies, whether or not such dog or other animal has been inoculated against
rabies, shall immediately notify the Administrator and shall promptly confine
the dog or other animal, or have it confined, under suitable observation, for a
period of at least ten days, unless officially authorized by the Administrator,
in writing, to release it sooner. Any dog or other animal, whether or not the
exposed dog or other animal has been inoculated against rabies, shall be
confined as recommended by the Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 50.136) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.137 UNVACCINATED IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   Pursuant to 510 ILCS 5/10(b), an owner redeeming an unvaccinated impounded
dog four or more months of age, or any person taking ownership of such a dog as
provided under 510 ILCS 5/11, shall cause that dog to be officially vaccinated
against rabies within five days after the dog is removed from the pound.
(1993 Code, § 50.137) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.138 BITING ANIMAL CONSIDERED OFFICIALLY VACCINATED.
   A biting animal shall, for confinement purposes as set forth in 510 ILCS 5/
13 and this chapter, be considered officially vaccinated against rabies if:
   (A)   The initial rabies vaccination was completed at least 30 days prior to
the biting incident; or
   (B)   The biting animal shall have been previously immunized against rabies
and the biting incident occurred within the recognized immunization period for
the vaccine used.
(1993 Code, § 50.138) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.139 BRAINS OF SUSPECT ANIMALS TO BE SUBMITTED FOR EXAMINATION.
   (A)   The brains of all dogs or other animals which are suspected of having
rabies or the brains from animals which have bitten a person or other animal
and die during the period of observation shall be promptly and properly
submitted to a recognized laboratory for rabies examination.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the person who has the biting
animal confined under his or her observation to see that the brain is properly
submitted to the laboratory without delay.
      (2)   There is no observation period for wild animals so their brains
shall be submitted immediately for rabies examination.
(1993 Code, § 50.139) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.140 BITING ANIMAL NOT INOCULATED AGAINST RABIES.
   If an owner of a dog four or more months of age cannot furnish evidence that
the dog is currently inoculated against rabies and the dog has bitten any
person, this shall constitute prima facie evidence that the owner is in
violation of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 50.140) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.141 WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   The efficacy of rabies vaccine for fur-bearing mammals and wild
animals has not been established. Therefore, there is no observation period
with regard to these animals.
      (2)   When a fur-bearing mammal or wild animal bites a person, dog, cat
or other animal, it should be immediately and humanely dispatched and its brain
shall be submitted to the Administrator, his or her agents or a recognized
laboratory for rabies examination.
   (B)   There is a $6 fee to euthanize and dispose of each wild animal.
(1993 Code, § 50.141) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2010-09, passed 5-19-2010; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
DISPOSAL/DESTRUCTION FOR HUMANE REASONS
§ 50.160 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS FOR HUMANE REASONS.
   (A)   When, in the judgment of the Administrator, his or her authorized
representative, it is determined:
      (1)   That an animal, at the scene of an accident, is obviously injured
beyond medical help; or
      (2)   That an animal presented to the county animal control shelter is:
         (a)   Obviously injured beyond medical help;
         (b)   Carries an infectious disease which would threaten the lives of
other animals housed therein; or
         (c)   Is in a state of cachexia from obvious incurable malignancy;
such animal may immediately be humanely dispatched without regard to any time
limitations otherwise established herein.
   (B)   A report should be made by the Administrator after any such action. A
copy of the report should be kept on file for a reasonable period of time
thereafter.
(1993 Code, § 50.160) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006)
§ 50.161 DISPOSAL OF UNWANTED ANIMALS.
   (A)   A $100 fee will be issued to an owner who relinquishes their dog or
cat to the Madison County Animal Care and Control Department for euthanasia or
turn-in.
   (B)   A $100 fee will be issued to a municipality who brings to the Madison
County Animal Care and Control Department a dog or cat for euthanasia or turn-
in.
(1993 Code, § 50.161) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 21, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022; Ord. 2024-
05, passed 6-13-2024)
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
§ 50.175 ANIMAL TREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly treat, inhumanely kill or cause to be cruelly
treated or inhumanely killed or knowingly allow to be cruelly treated or
inhumanely killed, any animal by beating, torturing, mutilating, starving or
overworking either his or her own dog, cat or other animal, or an animal
belonging to another person.
   (B)   No person shall unnecessarily fail to provide any animal in his or her
charge, or custody as owner or otherwise, with:
      (1)   Sufficient quantity of reasonable good quality, wholesome food and
water;
      (2)   Shelter sufficient for the animal to maintain its body heat and
functions without drawing upon the necessary constituents of its own body and
adequate shelter that minimizes the potential for overheating;
      (3)   Veterinary care when reasonably needed to prevent suffering; and
      (4)   Humane care and treatment.
   (C)   No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, overwork
or otherwise abuse any animal. No person may abandon any animal where it may
become a public charge or may suffer injury, hunger or exposure. The County
Board, the Administrator and their agents, employees and assigns shall comply
with and enforce all provisions of the State Humane Care for Animals Act (510
ILCS 70/1 et seq.).
   (D)   The State’s Attorney of the county is specifically authorized by the
County Board to file a complaint to enjoin all persons from inhumanely or
cruelly treating animals and is specifically directed to abate the same and to
enjoin the owner from continuing to perpetrate such treatment by the owner,
pursuant to law and the aforesaid statute.
(1993 Code, § 50.170) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.176 ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   (A)   No person may own, operate, manage, maintain, charge admission to or
be present at any place used for the purpose of fighting or attempting to fight
any bull, dog, cock or other animal.
   (B)   Upon receiving a complaint of suspected violation of these provisions,
the Administrator or his or her agents and deputies may, for the purpose of
investigating the allegations of the complaint, enter during normal business
hours, upon any premises where the animal or animals described in the complaint
are housed or kept, provided such entry shall not be made into any building
which is a person’s residence, except by search warrant or court order.
Institutions operating under federal license to conduct laboratory
experimentation, utilizing animals for research or medical purposes are,
however, exempt from the provisions of this section. The State’s Attorney and
law enforcement officials shall provide assistance as may be required in the
conduct of investigations.
(1993 Code, § 50.171) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.177 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   (1)   If an investigation under this subchapter discloses that a
violation of this subchapter has been committed, the Administrator or his or
her agents or deputies shall furnish the violator, if known, with a notice of
apparent violation, and state what action is necessary to come into compliance
with this subchapter, and that a maximum of 48 hours may be granted in which to
take corrective action for compliance. If the violator is still unknown after
an attempt to identify ownership or if a review of facts gathered by the
Administrator indicates a violation of this subchapter has occurred, and the
violator, if known, has failed or refused to take corrective action, the animal
or animals may be impounded by the Administrator provided that a notice of
impoundment be given to the owner, in person or sent by certified mail.
      (2)   The notice of impoundment shall include the following:
         (a)   An animal report number;
         (b)   A listing of deficiencies noted;
         (c)   An accurate description of the animal or animals involved;
         (d)   The date on which the animal or animals were impounded;
         (e)   The signature of the Rabies Control Department representative;
and
         (f)   A statement that “the violator may request a hearing to appeal
the impoundment.”
   (B)   A person desiring a hearing shall contact the County Animal Control
Department within seven days from the date of impoundment, and the County
Animal Control Department will hold an administrative hearing within seven days
after receiving a request to appeal the impoundment. If the hearing cannot be
held prior to the expiration of the seven-day impoundment period, the County
Animal Control Department cannot sell, offer for ownership or dispose of the
animal or animals until a final decision is rendered and all of the appeal
processes have expired.
   (C)   Any expense incurred in such impoundment becomes a lien on the animal
and must be discharged before the animal is released from the County Animal
Control Department.
(1993 Code, § 50.172) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
FEES AND ANIMAL CONTROL FUND
§ 50.190 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE FEES.
   The County Board, pursuant to the authority granted to it by 510 ILCS 5/1 et
seq. may require a fee for the registration of dogs and other domesticated
animals, except for feral cats, as they may decide in the future. The
Administrator, his or her agents, deputies and wardens, as well as the
employees of the County Animal Control Department, shall carry out the
provisions of this chapter requiring registration of dogs and other
domesticated animals and the imposition of the registration fees ordained by
resolution of the County Board, as well as any other fees authorized by the
State Animal Control Act and Humane Care for Animals Act, 510 ILCS 70/, and
implemented by the County Board.
(1993 Code, § 50.185) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.191 REMITTANCE OF FEES INTO ANIMAL CONTROL FUND.
   All registration fees collected shall be remitted to the County Treasurer,
who shall place the monies in an Animal Control Fund. This Fund shall be set up
by the Treasurer for the purpose of paying costs of the Animal Control Program.
All fees collected shall be used for the purpose of paying claims for loss of
livestock or poultry as set forth in this chapter and for the following
purposes as established by ordinance of the County Board: funds may be utilized
by local health departments or county nurse’s offices for the purchase of human
anti-rabies serum, human vaccine, the cost for administration of serum or
vaccine, minor medical care, and for paying the cost of stray dog control,
impoundment, education on animal control and rabies, and other costs occurred
in carrying out the provisions of this chapter or any county or municipal
ordinance concurred in by the Department relating to animal control, except as
set forth in this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 50.186) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-
21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
NUISANCE PROVISIONS
§ 50.205 NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be a public nuisance for any owner of a dog to permit said
dog to run at large in any unincorporated area of the county. A dog is deemed
to be running at large if it is on any public way or public place, or upon the
private premises of any person other than those of the keeper of the dog,
unless the dog is under control by leash or other recognized control methods,
However, a dog shall not be deemed to be a nuisance where:
      (1)   The dog is upon private premises, in the presence and company and
under supervision of its owner, and an adult individual with an ownership or
possessory interest in the premises consents to the dog’s presence on his or
her premises; or
      (2)   The dog is upon public premises that specifically allow dogs to be
present off-leash and the dog is in the presence and company and under
supervision by its owner.
   (B)   It shall be a public nuisance for any owner of a cat to permit said
cat to cause damage to any real or personal property of any other person, when
that property is found or located within the unincorporated area of the county.
   (C)   It shall be a public nuisance for any owner of a cat six months of age
or older to permit said cat to run at large in any unincorporated area of the
county. A cat is deemed to be running at large if it is on any public way or
public place, or upon the private premises of any person other than the keeper
of the cat, unless the cat is under control by leash or other recognized
control methods. This section does not apply to any cat that has been spayed or
neutered.
   (D)   It shall be a public nuisance for any person to permit any dog or
other dangerous animal to leave the premises of its owner when not under
control by a recognized control method.
   (E)   Any animal found by the Administrator to be a nuisance may be
impounded in accordance with the provisions of §§
50.040 through
50.049.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01,
passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.206 PENALTY FOR NUISANCE VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who commits any act prohibited by §
50.190 shall be subject to a fine.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01,
passed 3-16-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
COMMUNITY CAT PROGRAM
§ 50.300 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter:
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any free-roaming, feral, or barn cat that may be cared for by
one or more residents of the immediate area and which has no discernable form
of ownership identification. COMMUNITY CAT includes a domesticated cat that an
owner has forsaken entirely or neglected or for which an owner has refused to
provide care and support.
   COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER. A person who provides care, including food, water,
shelter or medical care to a community cat. A community cat caregiver shall not
be considered the owner, custodian, harborer, controller, or keeper of a
community cat.
   EARTIPPING. The removal of the ¼-inch tip of a community cat’s ear,
performed while the cat is under anesthesia, under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian and designed to be an indication that the community cat
has been sterilized and vaccinated for rabies.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that: (i) is born in the wild or is the offspring of a
community or feral cat and is not socialized; or (ii) is a formerly owned cat
that has been abandoned and is no longer socialized; or (iii) lives on a farm.
   FERAL CAT COLONY. A group of cats that congregates, more or less, together
as a unit. Although not every cat in a colony may be feral, any non-feral cats
that congregate with a colony shall be deemed to be a part of it.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.301 PURPOSE.
   To permit implementation of a community cat program (CCP) in Madison County,
Illinois (County) for the purpose of reducing the population of feral and free
roaming cats, benefitting public health, improving the quality of life for
residents, and ensuring the humane treatment of community cats.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.302 COMMUNITY CATS.
   (A)   The Board established the following community cat requirements:
      (1)   All community cats must be cared for on the private property of the
caregiver or with the permission from the owner or property manager if cared
for on the property of another.
      (2)   All community cat caregivers shall make reasonable efforts to have
all free roaming cats within their care sterilized, vaccinated against rabies,
and ear-tipped for easy identification.
      (3)   All community cat caregivers are required to make reasonable
efforts to provide certain necessities to each community cat under his/her care
on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, proper nutrition,
adequate quantities of visibly clean and fresh water and medical care as
needed. If medical care is unavailable or too expensive, the community cat
caregiver must not allow the cat to suffer. Dumping on the ground or dispensing
large quantities of food more than will be immediately eaten by the cats.
      (4)   Community cat caregivers shall make reasonable attempts to remove
young kittens from the field for domestication.
   (B)   Community cats meeting the requirements of this section are exempt
from any licensing requirements under the county code of ordinances.
      (1)   The Administrator shall have the right to remove or authorize the
removal of any free-roaming cat or community cat because of immediate public
health or safety concerns.
      (2)   No community cat shall be released at any governmentally owned or
managed park, natural area, area deemed as environmentally sensitive land or on
any easement adjacent to such lands without approval from the Administrator.
      (3)   Healthy community cats that have been impounded by the
Administrator are exempt from the holding period referenced in the county code
of ordinances and shall be immediately returned to the location at which they
were found, released to the caregiver or adopted. Before being returned to the
location at which they were found or released to a caregiver, community cats
shall be sterilized, ear tipped while under anesthesia under the supervision of
a licensed veterinarian, and vaccinated for rabies.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever such cat is visibly injured
or diseased and appears to be suffering and it reasonably appears that such cat
cannot be expeditiously cured and returned to the field, transferred to a
humane society or private animal nonprofit organization or placed in foster
care, then the Administrator, acting in good faith and upon reasonable belief,
may humanely euthanize the cat upon the advice of a licensed veterinarian.
      (5)   Community cat caregivers shall not be subject to the provisions of
§
50.023, provided that permission from the property owner has been obtained to
care for community cats on the property.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating or aiding in or abetting the violation of any
provision of either the State Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., or this
chapter, or counterfeiting or forging any certificate, permit or tag, or making
any misrepresentation in regard to any matter prescribed by this chapter, or
resisting, obstructing or impeding the Administrator or any authorized officer
in enforcing this chapter, or refusing to produce for inoculation any dog in
his or her possession not confined at all times to an enclosed area, or who
removes a tag from a dog for purposes of destroying or concealing its identity,
is guilty of a petty offense for a first or second offense and shall be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $200. For a third and any subsequent offense,
the State’s Attorney shall prosecute the violations as misdemeanor offenses
against state statutes, being a Class C misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense. The
State’s Attorney to whom the Administrator reports any violation of this
chapter or the State Animal Control Act shall cause appropriate proceedings to
be instituted in the proper courts without delay and to be prosecuted in the
manner provided by law.
   (C)   If the owner of a dog subject to enclosure:
      (1)   Fails to maintain or keep the dog in an enclosure;
      (2)   The dog inflicts great bodily harm, permanent disfigurement,
permanent physical disability upon any other person or causes the death of
another person; and
      (3)   The attack is unprovoked in a place where the person is peaceably
conducting himself or herself and where the person may lawfully be; the owner
shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter, as well as a Class C
misdemeanor. However if the owner knowingly allowed the dog to run at large or
failed to take steps to keep the dog in an enclosure, then, in that case, the
owner shall be guilty of a Class 4 felony. The penalty provided in this section
shall be in addition to any other criminal or civil sanction provided by law.
   (D)   Any person adjudicated guilty of violating §
50.024 shall pay a minimum fine of $200.
   (E)   Any person who commits any act prohibited by §
50.190 shall be subject to a fine not in excess of $500. Further, the State’s
Attorney may bring an action to enjoin any persons from violating §
50.190 and seek an order from the Circuit Court to enjoin the violator from
maintaining such a nuisance.
(1993 Code, § 50.999) (Ord. 92-10, passed 11-18-1992; Ord. 2003-08, passed 11-
19-2003; Ord. 2006-07, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2022-01, passed 3-16-2022)
CHAPTER 51: FIREWORKS
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Sale, use or explosion of fireworks prohibited
   
51.03   County authorized to issue permits
   
51.04   Application for pyrotechnic display
   
51.05   Pyrotechnic display permit requirements
   
51.06   Application for consumer fireworks display
   
51.07   Consumer fireworks display permit requirements
   
51.08   Additional requirements
   
51.09   Novelty fireworks
   
51.10   Protected areas
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS. Those fireworks used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334 or UN0335 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. Part 172.101.
   ASSISTANT. An on-site individual who is at least 18 years of age and who,
under the supervision of the lead pyrotechnic operator, assists with the
safety, setup and discharge of a pyrotechnic display.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer
Products Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and 1507, and
classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States Department of
Transportation under 49 C.F.R. Part 172.101. CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall not
include novelty fireworks.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of
consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect. Synonymous with
CONSUMER DISPLAY.
   CONSUMER OPERATOR. An adult individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup and discharge of the consumer fireworks display and who has completed the
training required in the State Pyrotechnic Use Act, 425 ILCS 35/2.2.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. 1.3G or special effects fireworks or as further defined
in the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act.
   FIREWORKS. 1.3G fireworks, consumer fireworks, display fireworks, special
effects fireworks and any other item defined as fireworks under state law.
FIREWORKS does not include novelty fireworks.
   FLAME EFFECT. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual or audible
effect before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged, in accordance with National Fire Protection Association
160 guidelines, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic Operator
Licensing Act.
   LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR. An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant to
the State Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.
   NOVELTY FIREWORKS. Snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick
noisemakers known as “party poppers,” “booby traps,” “snappers,” “trick
matches,” “cigarette loads” and “auto burglar alarms;” sparklers; toy pistols,
toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing
twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are used, provided
they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when
in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps that contain
less than twenty hundredths grains of explosive mixture.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture or commercial entity.
   PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic
Operator Licensing Act.
   SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS. Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical or
other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
compositions and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are
not labeled as such or identified as “intended for indoor use.” SPECIAL EFFECTS
FIREWORKS are classified as fireworks UN0431 or UN0432 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. Part 172.101.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007)
§ 51.02 SALE, USE OR EXPLOSION OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided it shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or use or
explode any fireworks unless otherwise permitted by state law; except as
provided in this chapter and approved by the county as evidenced by the
granting of a permit for a consumer fireworks display or a pyrotechnic display.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 COUNTY AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE PERMITS.
   (A)   The county is authorized and empowered to grant and issue a permit for
a consumer fireworks display or a pyrotechnic display in the county outside the
corporate limits of any city, village or incorporated town upon a proper
application therefor by any person, being filed with the Building and Zoning
Department pursuant to the terms and provisions of state law. The applicant
must meet all requirements of state law for the conducting of a consumer
fireworks display or pyrotechnic display.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be filed in writing with the
Building and Zoning Department at least 15 days in advance of the date of the
display, and shall include all of the information and documentation required by
§§
51.04 or
51.06 of this chapter as applicable.
   (C)   The applicant shall also submit a copy of the application to the Fire
Chief providing fire protection coverage to the area where the display is to be
conducted.
   (D)   No permit granted by the county for a fireworks display shall be
transferable.
   (E)   A permit shall be issued only after inspection of the display site by
the Fire Chief providing fire protection coverage to the area where the display
is to be conducted, or his or her designee, to determine that the display is in
full compliance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal.
   (F)   Issuance of any permit is conditioned on compliance with the
provisions of state law and the regulations of the State Fire Marshal adopted
hereunder, as well as compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   The permit fee for a pyrotechnic display or a consumer fireworks
display is $25, which must be submitted with the permit application.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 51.04 APPLICATION FOR PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY.
   At the time of filing an application for a pyrotechnic display permit and
upon the payment of all applicable permit fees, the applicant must produce all
of the following:
   (A)   A policy of liability insurance in a solvent and responsible company
authorized to do business in the state in a minimum amount of $1,000,000. The
policy shall insure the applicant against liabilities, judgments, costs,
damages and expenses that may accrue against, be charged to or be recovered
from the applicant for the reason of damage to property or injury to or death
of any person arising from the display. Such insurance coverage shall be an
occurrence based policy, and it shall cover all periods of time when
pyrotechnic materials, including flame effect materials, are in the insured’s
actual or constructive possession, including those times when the materials are
being stored, transported, handled, used, discharged and displayed;
   (B)   Identification information for the pyrotechnic distributor from whom
the fireworks used in the display will be obtained;
   (C)   Identification information for the lead pyrotechnic operator for the
display and a copy of his or her license from the State Fire Marshal; and
   (D)   Identification information for all assistants to the lead pyrotechnic
operator sufficient to enable the county to confirm that each such individual
is at least 18 years of age.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007)
§ 51.05 PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit for pyrotechnic display shall be issued only after the Chief
of the Fire Department providing fire protection coverage to the area of
display, or his or her designee, has inspected the site and determined that the
display can be performed in full compliance with the rules adopted by the State
Fire Marshal.
   (B)   When the application has been approved, the permit shall be signed by
the Administrator of the Building and Zoning Department or his or her designee.
The permit must also be signed by the Fire Chief providing fire protection
coverage to the area where the display is to be conducted. Any permit not
bearing either of the required signatures is not valid.
   (C)   The permit when issued shall name the person designated to serve as
the lead pyrotechnic operator. The lead pyrotechnic operator must be in
possession of and be able to produce his or her license upon request at all
times during the delivery, setup and performance of the display.
   (D)   No individual may serve as an assistant in a pyrotechnic display
unless his or her name and other identification information was submitted to
the county with the initial permit application.
   (E)   After such privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use
and distribution of fireworks for display shall be lawful for that purpose
only.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 51.06 APPLICATION FOR CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY.
   At the time of filing an application for a pyrotechnic display permit and
upon the payment of all applicable permit fees, the applicant must produce all
of the following:
   (A)   A certificate of training demonstrating successful completion of a
consumer fireworks training class approved by the State Fire Marshal;
   (B)   Proof that the applicant has submitted a written request to the Fire
Chief providing fire protection coverage to the area where the display is to be
conducted for a site inspection; and
   (C)   Identification information for the consumer fireworks distributor or
retailer from whom the fireworks used in the display will be obtained.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007)
§ 51.07 CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit for a consumer fireworks display shall be issued only after
the Chief of the Fire Department providing fire protection coverage to the area
of display, or his or her designee, has inspected the site and determined that
the display can be performed in full compliance with the rules adopted by the
State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   When the application has been approved, the permit shall be signed by
the Administrator of the Building and Zoning Department or his or her designee.
The permit must also be signed by the Fire Chief providing fire protection
coverage to the area where the display is to be conducted. Any permit not
bearing either of the required signatures is not valid.
   (C)   The location that a consumer fireworks display will be detonated must
be at least 200 feet in all directions from any spectators, buildings,
structures or property lines, and must be free of any overhead obstructions. A
fire extinguisher or water hose must be present while consumer fireworks are
being prepared for firing or fired.
   (D)   All fireworks used in a consumer fireworks display shall be purchased
or otherwise obtained by the permit holder from a registered consumer fireworks
distributor/retailer in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All permit holders are required to notify the county within 24 hours
after any of the following incidents occurring incidental to a fireworks
display:
      (1)   A fire;
      (2)   An injury to any person resulting from the display; or
      (3)   Damage to property in excess of $500, in the aggregate, resulting
from the display.
   (B)   The county shall, within three days of notification, notify the Office
of the State Fire Marshal of any fire, injury to any person or damage to
property in excess of $500 that resulted from a pyrotechnic display or a
consumer fireworks display.
   (C)   The county shall maintain a copy of each display permit issued for a
minimum of four years from the date of the display. Any reports of fire,
injury, property damage, theft or loss of fireworks that are submitted to the
county shall be maintained with a copy of the display permit.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 NOVELTY FIREWORKS.
   Nothing in the chapter shall be construed to regulate or prohibit the
possession or use of novelty fireworks.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007)
§ 51.10 PROTECTED AREAS.
   No fireworks shall be discharged, ignited or exploded at any point in the
state within 600 feet of any hospital, asylum or infirmary.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the case of a court finding that a person possessing fireworks or
combustibles seized by any officer or employee of the Office of the State Fire
Marshal, the Department of the State Police, Sheriff or Deputy Sheriff was in
possession of these items in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
judgment shall be entered confiscating and forfeiting the property and ordering
its destruction.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter may be fined a
maximum of $1,000 for each such occurrence.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 52: TRAFFIC CODE
   Certain ordinances set forth the traffic and parking schedules and copies of
these ordinances are available from the County Clerk’s office for inspection.
The decision not to include these ordinances in this current code should not be
looked upon as an implied repealer. As such, the contents of these ordinances
remain in full force and effect, unless explicitly repealed by subsequent
ordinances or by the repealer ordinance of this code.
CHAPTER 53: NUISANCES
Section
   
53.01   Title
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Noise prohibitions
   
53.05   Special violations
   
53.06   Exceptions
   
53.07   Authority of this chapter
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall hereinafter be known as the “Madison County Noise
Pollution Act” and may be so cited.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   To prevent noise pollution in that excessive noise endangers physical and
emotional health and well-being, interferes with legitimate business and
recreational activities, increases construction costs, depresses property
values, offends the senses, creates public nuisances and in other respects
reduces the quality of our environment.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOLIDAYS. For purposes of the application of this chapter, the following
shall be considered holidays: New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which may do the following:
      (1)   Causes annoyance or disturbs humans or which has any adverse
psychological or physiological effects on humans;
      (2)   Endangers or injures the health or safety of humans or animals;
      (3)   Causes annoyance or disturbance to a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities; or
      (4)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. A line along the ground surface and its vertical
extension which separates the real property owned by one person from that owned
by another person.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. An area designated for any residential use under the
zoning ordinance of the county.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 53.04 NOISE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to make, continue
or cause to be made or continued any loud, unreasonably loud, disturbing,
unnecessary or excessive noise which unreasonably interferes with the comfort,
health or safety of others.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to permit any noise
as described in division (A) above to be made in or upon any house or premises
owned or possessed by him or her or under his or her management and or control.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 SPECIAL VIOLATIONS.
   The following shall be declared a nuisance and shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For a motor vehicle operator to operate or play any radio, musical
instrument or similar device from said motor vehicle in such a manner as to be
plainly audible to any other person other than the player or operator of the
device at a distance of 20 feet;
   (B)   For a pedestrian to operate or play any radio, musical instrument or
similar device in such a manner as to be plainly audible to any other person
other than the player or operator of the device at a distance of 30 feet;
   (C)   For any person to operate or play any radio, television, musical
instrument or similar device or to produce live music, sound or noise in any
manner which produces or reproduces sound or noise, whether from a business,
residence or any other premises, in such a manner as to be plainly audible
outside of the real property boundary of such business, residence or other
premises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., Central Standard Time
(CST);
   (D)   For any person to keep any animal, which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any ordinary person;
   (E)   For any person to load, unload, open, close or other handling of
boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage trucks or similar
objects between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. CST in such a manner as
to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary;
   (F)   (1)   For any person to operate or permit the operation of any tools
or equipment used in construction, drilling or demolition work in such a manner
that the sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary, at any of the following times:
         (a)   Between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. CST on any day of the week; or
         (b)   At any time on any Sunday or holiday.
      (2)   Public service utilities are exempt from this provision. Further,
no person shall be adjudicated guilty of this provision if he or she
demonstrates the existence of a bona fide emergency that necessitated
performance of the work during prohibited hours.
   (G)   For any person to operate or permit the operation of any mechanically
powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool used outdoors in
residential areas between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. CST so as to
cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property boundary; and
   (H)   For any person to operate a motor vehicle or any internal combustion
engine, which is excessively loud, so as to disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of persons across a residential real property boundary. This includes
excessive noise levels as the result of a defective or modified exhaust system
or as a result of any one or more of the following: unnecessary rapid
acceleration, deceleration, engine revving or tire squealing.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Special performances by a band or orchestra after permits have been
obtained from the county;
   (B)   Ringing of bells or chimes by churches;
   (C)   Any noises or sounds produced by police, fire, rescue or other
emergency vehicles or personnel;
   (D)   Organized school-related programs, activities and other events; and
   (E)   Organized public programs, activities, events, and parades or other
public programs, activities or events authorized by county government.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 53.07 AUTHORITY OF THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall take precedence over any neighborhood covenants.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to violate any of the terms and provisions of
this chapter. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the said terms
and provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be punished by fines as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, the minimum fine shall be $50 and the
maximum fine shall be $250; and
      (2)   For any subsequent offense, the minimum fine shall be $150 and the
maximum fine shall be $1,000.
   (B)   Community service hours may be ordered by the court in addition to the
above mentioned fines and if ordered, said hours must be served within one year
of the date sentence is imposed by proper authorities.
   (C)   The violation of this chapter or any part thereof on more than one day
shall constitute separate offenses.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 11-15-2006)
CHAPTER 54: PERMIT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Applicability
   
54.02   Definitions
Permit Regulations
   
54.15   Permit required
   
54.16   Initial application and procedures
Prohibited Conduct
   
54.30   General violations
   
54.31   Obstruction and display violations
   
54.32   Sign violations
   
54.33   Noise violations
Permit Classifications
   
54.45   Demonstrations
   
54.46   Non-demonstrations or fund raising events
   
54.47   Room assignment and priority
   
54.48   Distribution of leaflets and solicitation funds
Standards of Operation
   
54.60   Business hours and public access
   
54.61   Law enforcement
Poker Runs
   
54.70   Establishment
   
54.71   Permit required
   
54.72   Fee required
   
54.73   Application requirements
   
54.74   Key location
   
54.75   Permit duration
   
54.76   Bond waiver
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Any person or organization wishing to assemble on or in the following county
owned buildings or grounds must submit a permit request pursuant to this
chapter. Permits will only be granted for the use of following county buildings
and grounds: Madison County Administration Building, 157 North Main St.,
Edwardsville; Madison County Animal Control, 2160 East Hwy. 143, Edwardsville;
Madison County Annex III, 130 Hillsboro Ave., Edwardsville; Madison County
Annex IV, 116-118 Hillsboro Ave., Edwardsville; Madison County Annex V, 2125
Troy Rd., Edwardsville; Madison County Courthouse, 155 North Main St.,
Edwardsville; Madison County Detention Home, 100 West Fifth Ave., Edwardsville;
Madison County Handicapped Park, 210 North Main St., Edwardsville; Madison
County Highway Garage, Hwy. 143 and Marine Rd., Edwardsville; Madison County
Jail, 405 Randle St., Edwardsville; Madison County Nursing Home, 2121 Troy Rd.,
Edwardsville; Madison County Parking Lot, Second St., Edwardsville; Madison
County Plaza between the Madison County Courthouse and the Madison County
Administration Building; Madison County Sheltered Care Home, 333 South Main
St., Edwardsville; Madison County Special Service Area #1, 301 East Chain of
Rocks Rd., Granite City; Madison County T.B. Clinic, 2119 Troy Rd.,
Edwardsville; Madison County Vehicle Maintenance Garage, 333 South Main St.
(Rear), Edwardsville.
(1993 Code, § 54.01) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person or organization that submits a written request to the
County Buildings Committee to assemble at county owned property at a particular
time and location for a specified duration of time.
   BUILDING. All county buildings, grounds and parking lots located within the
boundaries of the county listed in §
54.01.
   BUILDINGS COMMITTEE. The Buildings Committee of the County Board.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. An activity whose primary purpose is to obtain a profit
for the benefit of an individual, or business entity organized for profit and
shall not include the solicitation of donation by anyone during a
demonstration, or for charitable purposes, as defined by the Charitable Trusts
Act (760 ILCS 55/1 et seq.) and an Act to Regulate Solicitations and Collection
of Funds for Charitable Purposes (225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.).
   DEMONSTRATION. Demonstrating, picketing, marching, rallying, selling
noncommercial printed matter or materials, moving in procession, holding vigils
and all other forms of public demonstrative activity that involve the
communication or expression whether orally or by conduct, of views or
grievances, engaged in by one or more persons, the conduct of which has the
effect, intent or propensity to draw a crowd of onlookers within 100 feet of
any buildings owned by the county. DEMONSTRATION shall also mean demonstrating,
parading, picketing, speech making, holding vigils, sit-ins or other
activities, conducted for the purpose of demonstrating approval or disapproval
of governmental policies or practices (or the lack thereof), expressing a view
on public issues, or bringing into public notice any issue or other matter.
However, nothing herein shall be construed to govern lobbyists or lobbying as
defined by the Lobbyist Registration Act (25 ILCS 170/1 et seq.), nor shall a
DEMONSTRATION mean the peaceful contact or discussions by one or more persons
with an elected official during business hours concerning a person’s view on
public or personal issues.
   GROUNDS. The grassy or garden areas, and shall exclude all parking areas or
sidewalks.
   INTERFERE or INTERFERENCE. A type of conduct which by its nature tends to
hinder, disrupt or obstruct the orderly function of the official enterprises
being carried on in a county building or on the land of a county building.
   PERMIT. A written request to the County Buildings Committee to assemble at
county owned property at a particular time and location for a specified
duration of time.
   STRUCTURE. Anything built by any person or persons, of any material or
substance, for purposes of display, residence or as part of a demonstration.
This term shall not refer to anything built pursuant to a state or county
contract for construction, remodeling or repair of any state or county property
or building.
(1993 Code, § 54.02) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994)
PERMIT REGULATIONS
§ 54.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A written request addressed to the Buildings Committee must be
submitted at least seven days in advance of the event to be scheduled on or in
a county building or grounds, as listed in §
54.01, unless the requestor can show by the preponderance of the evidence, that
the cause or reason for the requested demonstration, meeting, gathering or
parade was not known, contemplated, reasonably foreseeable, resulted from
changed circumstances or was not in existence within those seven days, except
that no such request shall take precedence over an activity which was
previously scheduled and approved by the Buildings Committee.
   (B)   An applicant shall restore any areas described in the permit to their
pre-use appearance and condition, less reasonable wear and tear, with the
Buildings Committee being the final arbiter of the adequacy of the clean-up.
This division (B) applies to any organization receiving permission from the
Buildings Committee to county buildings and grounds specified in §
54.01 for meetings or gatherings pursuant to §§
54.46 and
54.47.
   (C)   Any organizations permitted to use the Courthouse or the buildings or
grounds specified in §
54.01 shall be responsible for any injury or damage caused by the negligent or
willful misconduct of their members or participants. Any individual causing any
damage or injury to any persons or property are primarily responsible for same.
(1993 Code, § 54.10) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.16 INITIAL APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The written request must be addressed to the Buildings Committee at
157 N. Main, Suite 154, Edwardsville, Illinois 62025, and must include the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the individual, organization, corporation, association,
society, fraternity, sorority, club or group of whatever kind or nature seeking
to use the county building or grounds;
      (2)   The names and addresses of all officers, leaders and marshals;
      (3)   The particular location or room requested;
      (4)   The date requested;
      (5)   The specific hours requested;
      (6)   Any acceptable alternative locations or rooms, dates and hours (in
the event that conflicting requests are received);
      (7)   The estimated number of the participants; and
      (8)   Any equipment to be used or supplied.
   (B)   A written response from the Buildings Committee approving part or all
of the application shall be considered the permit.
   (C)   In the event that the permit request is denied, the Buildings
Committee will mail a written response to the applicant stating the reasons for
denying a permit request in whole or in part. Acceptable reasons for denying a
permit, in whole or in part, include, but are not limited to, situations in
which the intended activity will result in:
      (1)   A conflict in date, time and location with a previously scheduled
activity of a county agency or other applicant;
      (2)   An unreasonable interference with the movement of persons within
the county buildings or on the grounds;
      (3)   An unreasonable interference with the movement of vehicular traffic
in the county parking lots;
      (4)   An unreasonable interference with some other official county
conduct;
      (5)   The creation of a health and/or safety hazard, not occurring in the
area designated by the permit, that will substantially impede the performance
of public business to be conducted in the area;
      (6)   The creation of a health and/or safety hazard, occurring in the
area designated by the permit, that will substantially impede the performance
of public business to be conducted in the area;
      (7)   The creation of a health and/or safety hazard that endangers the
applicant, participants or other persons; or
      (8)   A commercial activity.
   (D)   An applicant denied a permit in whole or in part may modify his or her
request to meet the objections and concerns of the Buildings Committee and may
resubmit the permit request for additional consideration.
   (E)   An applicant whose permit request is denied in whole or in part, may
appeal the Buildings Committee’s denial to the full County Board. The appeal
must be in writing, must state the specific reasons why the Buildings
Committee’s decision was incorrect, and must state what relief is sought. The
appeal must be submitted at least three days prior to the time of the requested
demonstration, to allow the Chairperson sufficient time within which to
consider and decide the appeal. This decision must be in writing and must be
given at least one day prior to the requested demonstration’s time of starting.
The Chairperson’s decision shall be final for the purposes of the
Administrative Review Act (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.).
(1993 Code, § 54.11) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994)
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 54.30 GENERAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person or organization shall damage, destroy, remove, deface,
defile, tarnish or injure in any way state or county property within the
buildings or on the grounds thereof. All persons and organizations engaging in
this type of prohibited activity will be responsible for all costs, expenses,
damages and liabilities resulting from their own actions or the actions of
persons or organizations controlled or directed by them at the time of the
damage to state or county property.
   (B)   Smoking is prohibited inside county buildings, and in other public
places in accordance with the Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 ILCS 82/1.
   (C)   No open flames or open burning of any matter or substance of
whatsoever kind or type is permitted either in or on county buildings, grounds
or parking lots.
   (D)   No skateboard riding is allowed on or in county property or buildings.
   (E)   No animals, except guide dogs or other dogs recognized by the American
with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., as appropriate for assisting
handicapped persons, shall be permitted in county buildings.
(1993 Code, § 54.15) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.31 OBSTRUCTION AND DISPLAY VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person or organization shall block, obstruct or impede any doorway,
stairway, corridor or elevator in any county building.
   (B)   No person or organization shall camp, erect a tent, monument,
structure, display, portable toilet, platform, sign or similar device on or in
county buildings or grounds unless said person or organization has obtained the
permission of the Buildings Committee. Permission shall be granted only if the
display structure is part of symbolic expression in the exercise of free speech
guaranteed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and Article
I, §§ 4 and 5 of the 1970 Illinois Constitution.
(1993 Code, § 54.16) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.32 SIGN VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No posters or signs may be carried into county buildings. Nor may
sticks, poles or laths be used to carry any sign or placard into county
buildings. Further, no chains or ropes may be carried into county buildings,
except by authorized workers, or state and county employees with the permission
of the Buildings Committee.
   (B)   No signs or posters for demonstration purposes may be affixed in any
way to the walls, railings, floors or ceilings of the buildings. No decorations
may be applied by tape, glue or any other type of adhesive material to any part
of any county building unless special arrangements have been made and approved
by the Buildings Committee.
   (C)   No commercial signs, placards or other forms of advertisement for the
sale, display or vending of commercial products or articles may be displayed in
county buildings or on the grounds, except pursuant to contract with the
county.
(1993 Code, § 54.17) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.33 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The noise level from demonstrators, picketers and protestors of any
group or groups, or as individuals within any county building shall not exceed
a decibel level of 85dB(A). If the noise level from these persons exceeds this
limit, the noise level must be immediately decreased to an appropriate level by
decreasing the noise or reducing the numbers of people within the Courthouse to
lower the noise level to the above-specified level.
   (B)   No person or group of persons shall use any electronic loudspeaker,
bullhorn or other amplifying device within the Courthouse building or grounds
unless prior permission of the Buildings Committee is obtained pursuant to the
procedures set out herein. Permission will be granted for demonstrations only.
(1993 Code, § 54.18) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS
§ 54.45 DEMONSTRATIONS.
   (A)   The holding or conducting of any demonstration, public meeting,
gathering or parade on or in county buildings or their grounds is prohibited
unless a permit for such activity is issued by the Buildings Committee pursuant
to §
54.16.
   (B)   Any group seeking a permit hereunder that will have 100 or more
participants at any demonstration shall have one marshal per each 25
participants.
   (C)   Marshals must, by their apparel or some symbol worn or carried, be
readily identifiable as marshals. The marshals must, to the best of their
ability under the circumstances presented, ensure that the permit conditions
are met, that all county ordinances and regulations are complied with, that the
demonstration remains peaceful and orderly and that the participants remain
within the physical boundaries described in the permit.
(1993 Code, § 54.20) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.46 NON-DEMONSTRATIONS OR FUND RAISING EVENTS.
   (A)   The holding or conducting of any sale of baked goods or other items on
or in county buildings or their grounds is prohibited unless a permit for such
activity is issued by the Buildings Committee pursuant to §
54.16.
   (B)   No commercial activity, such as selling real estate, automobiles or
insurance is allowed in the buildings or grounds specified in §
54.01. However, this prohibition shall not refer to any commercial activity
pursuant to a state or county contract, such as the auction of real estate held
by the county.
   (C)   No alcohol or alcoholic beverages are allowed to be sold, given away,
delivered, consumed or used in county buildings.
(1993 Code, § 54.21) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.47 ROOM ASSIGNMENT AND PRIORITY.
   (A)   Official meetings and events scheduled for the benefit of the county
and other agencies of state government will take precedence in the assignment
of buildings, grounds and meeting rooms.
   (B)   Meeting rooms in or on county buildings or grounds may be made
available for other state governmental or special nongovernmental functions on
a first come first serve basis with permission of the Buildings Committee.
   (C)   While groups may request specific meeting space, it is the sole
prerogative of the Buildings Committee to assign rooms based on anticipated
group size, the nature of the event, and the anticipated space needs for
routine events. The Buildings Committee reserves the right to reassign groups
to alternative space or to cancel events with reasonable notice.
   (D)   Where possible, applicants should notify the Buildings Committee of
cancellations at least two days in advance.
   (E)   Any freestanding tables or chairs that will be provided by the
applicant and will be used on uncarpeted floors must have rubber feet, and all
premises must be returned to the condition in which they were originally found.
(1993 Code, § 54.22) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.48 DISTRIBUTION OF LEAFLETS AND SOLICITATION FUNDS.
   (A)   No organization, including charitable organizations and political
parties or candidates, shall distribute leaflets to, or solicit and collect
funds from persons entering or in the buildings specified in §
54.01, except from public sidewalks, walkways within the county building
complexes, or on the Plaza between the County Courthouse and the County
Administration Building.
   (B)   No such distribution or solicitation shall be allowed in any
automobile parking area under the control of the Buildings Committee or within
business areas in the buildings specified in §
54.01.
   (C)   Activities included in divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall not
be allowed unless a permit is issued pursuant to §
54.16, which shall not be withheld if the request pertains to political
activity or charitable solicitation.
(1993 Code, § 54.23) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 54.60 BUSINESS HOURS AND PUBLIC ACCESS.
   (A)   The public business hours of all county buildings except the County
Jail, the County Juvenile Detention Home, the County Nursing Home and the
County Sheltered Care Home are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday,
except holidays declared by the County Board pursuant to § 18 of the Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois (20 ILCS 5/18).
   (B)   Entrance to any building during times other than those stated in
division (A) of this section is strictly prohibited, except by the following
classes of persons who shall be admitted to office areas assigned to them for
their use in carrying out their official duties:
      (1)   Elected county officials;
      (2)   Appointed county officials;
      (3)   Employees and staff of elected and appointed county officials;
      (4)   Any authorized contractor, cleaning, maintenance, repair or other
service employee while performing duties which have been arranged by Buildings
Committee; and
      (5)   Any person who is specifically requested to enter into any building
or office by an authorized individual listed in divisions (B)(1) through (B)
(3).
   (C)   Proper identification of all persons such as a driver’s license, an
official state or county identification card or other document which shows the
identity of the person may be demanded by law enforcement personnel. Factors to
be considered before identification is requested include, but are not limited
to the following:
      (1)   The law enforcement official does not recognize the individual;
      (2)   The individual’s behavior; and
      (3)   The individual’s accessibility to office areas, work areas and
restricted access areas.
(1993 Code, § 54.30) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994)
§ 54.61 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department shall enforce all laws within and on
the County Courthouse and grounds, except the sidewalks, and any buildings and
grounds specified within §
54.01 that are located within the unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The Edwardsville Police Department shall enforce all laws within and
on the County Administration Building and grounds, the sidewalks surrounding
the County Courthouse, and any buildings and grounds specified within §
54.01 that are located within the City of Edwardsville.
   (C)   State statutes applicable to the presentation of order and peace
within the county buildings and grounds listed in §
54.01 include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Hate Crimes, 720 ILCS 5/12-7.1, 730 ILCS 5/5-5-3.2;
      (2)   Disorderly Conduct, 720 ILCS 5/26-1;
      (3)   Mob Action, 720 ILCS 5/25-1;
      (4)   Criminal Trespass to State Supported Land, 720 ILCS 5/21-5;
      (5)   Criminal Damage to State Supported Property, 720 ILCS 5/21-4;
      (6)   Unauthorized Possession or Storage of Weapons, 720 ILCS 5/21-6;
      (7)   Possession of Explosives or Explosive or Incendiary Devices, 720
ILCS 5/20-2;
      (8)   Interference with Judicial Procedure, 720 ILCS 5/32-1 et seq.;
      (9)   Interference with Public Officers,720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.; and
      (10)   Threatening Public Officials, 720 ILCS 5/12-9.
(1993 Code, § 54.31) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994)
POKER RUNS
§ 54.70 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Madison County Board hereby establishes this subchapter permitting the
operation of poker runs within the corporate limits of Madison County.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.71 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to state law, a permit may be issued by the Madison County Clerk to
bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or
veterans’ organizations that operate without profit, which have been in
existence continuously for a period of five years, or is an affiliate of a
national or state organization that has been in existence for five years, or to
a non-profit fundraising organization organized for the sole purpose of
providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group of
individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as a result of an illness,
disability, accident or disaster.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.72 FEE REQUIRED.
   A fee of $0 for each license is established.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.73 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The license and application for license must specify all applicable
information required in 230 ILCS 15/3,
“License—Application—Issuance—Restrictions—Persons Ineligible.” The license
application must contain a sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit
character of the prospective license organization, signed by the presiding
officer and the secretary of that organization; and that the application will
be conducted in accordance with 230 ILCS 15/4, “Conduct of Raffles and Poker
Runs.” The application shall also designate a person who will supervise the
poker run.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.74 KEY LOCATION.
   Poker runs shall be licensed by the applicable county with jurisdiction over
the key location. The license granted by the key location shall cover the
entire poker run, including locations other than the key location. Each license
issued shall include the name and address of each predetermined location.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.75 PERMIT DURATION.
   Licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter may be valid for one poker run
or for a specified number of poker runs to be conducted during a specified
period not to exceed one year.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.76 BOND WAIVER.
   Madison County waives the bond requirement for any eligible organization
issued a license under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-16-2014)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any applicant, member or participant who violates any provision of this
chapter, except §
54.61(C), shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense in
addition to any of the criminal sanctions listed above in §
54.61(C). Each day’s violation shall be considered a separate offense. The
county or any aggrieved party may further obtain any other legal remedy,
including injunctive relief, in order to enforce this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 54.99) (Ord. 94-03, passed 3-16-1994)
CHAPTER 55: FOOD SANITATION PROGRAM
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Adoption of certain state codes by reference
   
55.02   Definitions
Permits
   
55.15   Permit required
   
55.16   Permit issuance
   
55.17   Permit length
   
55.18   Permit renewal
   
55.19   Permit updates
   
55.20   Permit suspension
   
55.21   Permit revocation
   
55.22   Permit classifications
   
55.23   Permit fees
Standards of Operation
   
55.35   Embargo and condemnation
   
55.36   Employee health
   
55.37   Construction and remodeling
Administration and Enforcement
   
55.50   Inspection schedule
   
55.51   Inspection report
   
55.52   Right of entry
Hearings
   
55.65   Hearings before the Health Officer
 
   
55.99   Penalty
   
Schedule A: Food Permit Fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 ADOPTION OF CERTAIN STATE CODES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   In addition to those provisions set forth herein, this section hereby
adopts by reference the current edition and subsequent revisions of the
following:
      (1)   Illinois Department of Public Health Food Service Sanitation Code,
77 Ill. Adm. Code 750; and
      (2)   Bed and Breakfast Act, 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.
   (B)   Three copies of each shall be on file with the office of the County
Clerk.
(1993 Code, § 55.01) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words and
phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and usual sense, except
where used in a technical sense or where context or the intent of the County
Board of Health indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED. The condition of any food:
      (1)   If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity which may render it injurious to health;
      (2)   If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleterious
substance for which no safe tolerance has been established by regulation or in
excess of such tolerance if one has been established;
      (3)   If it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid or
decomposed substance or it is otherwise unfit for human consumption;
      (4)   If it has been processed, prepared, packed, or held under
unsanitary conditions whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or
whereby it may have been rendered injurious to health;
      (5)   If it is in whole or in part the product of a diseased animal or
animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter;
      (6)   If its containers are composed in whole or in part of any poisonous
or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health,
(410 ILCS 620/10).
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12 month period; breakfast
may be provided to the guests only; this term shall not include motels, hotels,
boarding houses or food service establishments (50 ILCS 820/2.a.).
   COMMISSARY. A local health department permitted food establishment that acts
as a base of operations for a mobile food establishment. The commissary
provides facilities for adequate storage of food, food containers, or food
supplies; equipment for adequate washing and sanitazing of food equipment and
utensils; a servicing area for the sanitary disposal of liquid waste; for
handling and disposal of garbage, grease and rubbish originating from the
mobile food establishment; facilities for filling a potable water holding tank
in a sanitary manner.
   CONCESSION STAND. A food establishment that is a permanent food service
stand or building, operating in conjunction with an athletic or  entertainment
event operating no more than 100 days annually.
   EXTENSIVE REMODEL. Any structural additions or alterations to existing
establishments; changes, modifications, and extensions of plumbing, excluding
routine maintenance. Extensive remodeling does not include redecorating,
altering seating design, or reducing seating capacity.
   FARMERS’ MARKET TEMPORARY FOOD PERMIT. A permit valid for one day of
operation per week at the same farmers’ market location in the county up to 24
consecutive weeks.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked or processed edible substance, ice, beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or sale in whole or in part for human
consumption, or chewing gum (77 Ill. Adm. Code 750).
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends food directly
to the consumer, or otherwise provides food for human consumption such as a
restaurant; satellite or catered feeding location; catering operation if the
operation provides food directly to a consumer or to a conveyance used to
transport people; market; vending; location; conveyance used to transport
people; institution; or food pantry; and relinquishes possession of food to a
consumer directly, or indirectly, through a delivery service such as home
delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service
that is provided by common carriers.
      (1)   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS includes an element of the operation such as a
transportation vehicle or central preparation facility that supplies a vending
location or satellite feeding location unless the vending or feeding location
is permitted by the regulatory authority; and an operation that is conducted in
a mobile, stationary, temporary, or permanent facility or location; where
consumption is on or off the premises; and regardless of whether there is a
charge for the food.
      (2)   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT does not include an establishment that offers
only prepackaged  foods that are not time/temperature control for safety foods;
a produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and vegetables; a
food processing plant including those that are located on the premises of a
food establishment; a kitchen in a private home, such as a small family daycare
provider or a bed and breakfast operation as defined in the Bed and Breakfast
Act that prepares and offers food to guests; a private home that receives
catered or home delivered food; a closed family function where food is prepared
or served for individual family consumption; or a cottage food operation. (77
Ill. Adm. Code 750)
   FOOD PANTRY. A public or private nonprofit organization that distributes
food to low-income and unemployed households, including food from sources other
than the Department of Agriculture, to relieve situations of emergency and
distress. (7 USCS § 7501 (Title 7, Agriculture; Chapter 102, Emergency Food
Assistance))
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Administrator of the County Health Department or their
authorized representative.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury based on: 1) The number
of potential injuries, and 2) The nature, severity, and duration of the
anticipated injury. (77 Ill. Adm. Code 750)
   MISBRANDED. The presence of any written, printed or graphic matter upon or
accompanying food or containers of food which is false or misleading.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT A vehicle-mounted food establishment designed and
operated to be readily movable, e.g., mobile truck moving from location to
location continuously. The unit shall not have permanent connections to water,
wastewater, or electricity. This term includes trailer-mounted kitchens. The
mobile food establishment shall not be used for any purpose other than a mobile
food establishment. The mobile food establishment shall not be stored at a
personal residence.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT ANNUAL FOOD SERVICE PERMIT. Is intended for those
who operate at approved locations within Madison County and have obtained the
proper authorization from the county, and cities or municipalities to operate
in accordance to their codes and ordinances. Mobile food establishments who
wish to obtain a temporary food establishment permit and have not obtained an
annual permit may only operate under a temporary food service permit at
temporary events.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any person or his or her agent who makes application for a
permit to operate a food service establishment, retail food store or temporary
food establishment pursuant to this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, co-partnership, company,
corporation, trustee, lessee, receiver, association, municipality or any
political subdivision or department thereof, or any other entity, or its agent.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD. Any time/temperature control for food safety.
(77 Ill. Adm. Code 750)
   SPECIAL EVENT. A unique event at a particular location, such as a
celebration, festival or fundraiser that occurs no more than twice a year.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that operates for a
period of time of not more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a
single event or celebration.
(77 III. Adm. Code 750)
   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD. A food that requires time/
temperature control for safety (TCS) to limit pathogenic microorganism growth
or toxin formation.
(1993 Code, § 55.02) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-
16-2012; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-1-2018)
PERMITS
§ 55.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food establishment,
mobile food establishment, commissary, or temporary food establishment, within
the county, who does not possess a valid permit issued by the County Health
Department. Only a person who complies with the requirements of this chapter
shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. Permits shall not be
transferable from one person to another person nor shall said permit be
transferable to any location, building or place other than that which it was
originally issued. A valid permit shall be posted in every food establishment,
temporary food establishment, or mobile food establishment so as to be clearly
visible to all customers. A valid permit is one that is not suspended, revoked
or expired. Failure to possess a valid permit will result in immediate closure
of a food establishment, mobile food establishment, commissary, or temporary
food establishment within the county.
   (B)   The following establishments shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter:
      (1)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
time/temperature control for safety foods; and
      (2)   Facilities licensed and inspected by the State Department of
Corrections.
(1993 Code, § 55.10) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018) Penalty, see §
55.99
§ 55.16 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a food establishment, mobile food
establishment, commissary, or temporary food establishment must comply with
existing county zoning provisions, where applicable, and shall make written
application for a permit on forms provided by the Health Department. Any
applicant who is not a resident of the county must designate a managing agent
or registered agent who is a resident, and upon whom service may be made.
   (B)   Mobile food establishments seeking a permit shall provide the
following information to the Health Department, in addition to a written
application for a permit, prior to receiving permit:
      (1)   Proof of access to a permitted commissary. Food may not be prepared
in a residence nor in any facility that is not permitted or licensed;
      (2)   Hours of access to the commissary;
      (3)   A list of all items to be prepared and served during the course of
operation;
      (4)   Mobile food establishment itinerary and operating schedule;
      (5)   Proof of access to restrooms;
      (6)   Proof of approval from the local governing body to operate in the
location for which they have applied;
      (7)   A completed plan review provided by the Health Department.
(1993 Code, § 55.11) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.17 PERMIT LENGTH.
   The permit for food establishments, mobile food establishments, or
commissions, shall be for a period of 12 months from the date of issuance.
Temporary establishment permits shall be for a period of no longer than 14 days
in conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(1993 Code, § 55.12) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.18 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   Annual renewal of permits shall be required for continued operation of
the establishment or commissary. Any person desiring to renew a permit shall
make written application on forms provided by the Health Department.
   (B)   Mobile food establishments seeking a permit renewal shall provide the
following information to the Health Department, in addition to a written
application for a permit, prior to renewal of licensure:
      (1)   Proof of access to a permitted commissary. Food may not be prepared
in a residence nor in any facility that is not permitted or licensed;
      (2)   Hours of access to the commissary;
      (3)   A list of all items to be prepared and served during the course of
licensure;
      (4)   Mobile food establishment itinerary and operating schedule;
      (5)   Proof of access to restrooms;
      (6)   Proof of approval from the local governing body to operate in the
location for which they have applied.
   (C)   All permit fees for the annual renewal of permits are due 15 days
prior to the permit expiration date. Persons failing to submit the appropriate
fee and renewal application by the above stated renewal due date shall be
assessed a late payment penalty fee of $50 in addition to the appropriate
permit fee. Failure to submit the total fee and application by the above-
described renewal date may result in a late fee assessment each month and a
lapse in the permit.
(1993 Code, § 55.13) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.19 PERMIT UPDATES.
   (A)   The permit holder has an affirmative and continuing requirement to
update the original and all renewal applications. As a result, the permit
holder must inform the Health Officer of any changes in the information listed
in these applications within 30 days.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section, or knowingly
furnishing false information on the original or renewal applications shall be
grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 55.14) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.20 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permits for food establishments, mobile food establishments,
commissaries or may be suspended by the Health Officer upon notice to the
permit holder of same. Reasons for suspending the permit include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter after
notification by the Health Officer;
      (3)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter within the
time established by the Health Officer;
      (4)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health Officer
access to the permit holder’s building or records;
      (5)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter; or
      (6)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or renewal
applications.
   (B)   Upon making a determination that a suspension is appropriate, the
Health Officer shall advise the permit holder, or their managing or registered
agent, in writing of the intended suspension. The notice shall be delivered in
person by the Health Officer or sent via certified mail. The permit holder may
make a written request for a hearing with the Health Officer before imposition
of the period of suspension according to the procedures set out in the §§
55.65 and
55.66.
   (C)   Permits for food establishments, mobile food establishments,
commissaries or temporary food establishments may be suspended by the Health
Officer without notice to the permit holder when, in the judgment of the Health
Officer, a condition exists that will result in an imminent health hazard to
the public. Upon making a determination that a suspension without notice is
appropriate, the Health Officer shall immediately, without warning or notice,
advise the permit holder, or their managing or registered agent, of said
condition and all food service operation shall be immediately discontinued.
(1993 Code, § 55.15) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.21 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits for food establishments, mobile food establishments,
commissaries may be revoked by the Health Officer upon notice to the permit
holder of same. Reasons for suspending the permit include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Serious violations of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Repeatedly failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health Officer
access to the permit holder’s building or records;
      (4)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter;
      (5)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or renewal
applications;
      (6)   Failure to apply for reinspection within 30 days of the end of a
suspension period imposed for violations of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (7)   When the continuous operation of the business has lapsed for a
period of more than 90 days.
   (B)   Upon making a determination that a revocation is appropriate, the
Health Officer shall advise the permit holder, or their managing or registered
agent, in writing of the intended revocation. The notice shall be delivered in
person by the Health Officer or sent via certified mail. The permit holder may
make a written request for a hearing with the Health Officer before imposition
of the revocation according to the procedures set out in §§
55.65 and
55.66.
(1993 Code, § 55.16) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.22 PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall annually conduct a category
assessment for every food establishment mobile food establishment, or
commissary operating in the county, pursuant to the Local Health Protection
Grant Rules established by the Illinois Department of Public Health (77 Ill.
Adm. Code Ch. 1, Sec. 615). This assessment will result in the facility being
placed into the appropriate category as it relates to food handling operations.
A category shall be deemed an appropriate classification of an establishment
when at least one criteria item describes that establishment’s food handling
operations, and in all cases, the highest appropriate category will apply.
   (B)   The following criteria will be utilized to classify establishments
within the county.
      (1)   Category 1.
         (a)   Whenever cooling of potentially hazardous foods occurs as part
of the food handling operations at the facility;
         (b)   When potentially hazardous foods are prepared hot or cold and
held hot or cold for more than 12 hours before serving;
         (c)   If potentially hazardous foods which have been previously cooked
and cooled must be reheated;
         (d)   When preparing potentially hazardous food for off-premises
service for which time-temperature requirements during transportation, holding
and service are relevant;
         (e)   Whenever complex preparation of foods or extensive handling of
raw ingredients with hand contact for ready-to-eat foods, occurs as part of the
food handling operations at the facility;
         (f)   If vacuum packaging or other forms of reduced oxygen packaging,
or other special processes that require HACCP plan; or
         (g)   Whenever serving immuno-compromised individuals, such as the
elderly, young children under age four and pregnant women are served, where
these individuals compose the majority of the consuming population.
      (2)   Category 2.
         (a)   If hot or cold foods are not maintained at that temperature for
no more than 12 hours and are restricted to the same day service;
         (b)   If preparing foods for service from raw ingredients uses only
minimal assembly; and
         (c)   Foods served at an establishment that require complex
preparation (whether canned, frozen or fresh prepared) are obtained from
approved food processing plants, (high risk) food service establishments or
retail food stores.
      (3)   Category 3.
         (a)   Only pre-packaged foods are available or served in the facility,
and any potentially
hazardous food available are commercially pre-packaged in an approved
processing plant;
         (b)   Only limited preparation of non potentially hazardous foods and
beverages, such as snack foods and carbonated beverages, occurs at the
facility; or
         (c)   Only beverages (alcoholic or non-alcoholic) are served at the
facility.
(1993 Code, § 55.17) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.23 PERMIT FEES.
   Annual permit fees shall be assessed each permitted establishment and
collected by the Health Department and deposited into the Health Department
Fund. Fees shall be based on the classification of the establishment. If the
establishment falls under more than one fee category, then the higher fee
category will apply.
(1993 Code, § 55.18) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2012-03, passed 5-
16-2012; Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-16-2013; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-1-2018)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 55.35 EMBARGO AND CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   (1)   Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Officer to
determine freedom from adulteration or misbranding. The Health Officer may
condemn or embargo (detain) equipment or food when he or she has probable cause
to believe that any food or piece of equipment may be unwholesome or unfit for
use.
      (2)   Such conditions include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Food that has been adulterated;
         (b)   Food that has been misbranded;
         (c)   Any time/temperature control for safety food found to be in the
optimal temperature range of 42 to 134°F without proper paperwork for the
growth of pathogenic food borne bacteria;
         (d)   Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is
found to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsanitary or unsuitable for use
in the preparation, display or service of food; and
         (e)   In the event that food is contaminated as a result of fire,
flood, sewage backup, power outage or similar events.
   (B)   Condemned or embargoed food, food containers or equipment may be
suitably stored by the permit holder unless said storage would pose a risk to
the public health. If a risk exists, immediate destruction shall be ordered by
the Health Officer, or voluntarily destruction may be accomplished by the
permit holder. If the permit holder refuses to voluntarily destroy the
condemned food, food containers or equipment, same shall be held under embargo
until they have been proved satisfactory for human consumption by a certified
laboratory at the expense of the permit holder.
   (C)   No person shall remove or alter a condemnation or embargo order,
notice or tag placed on food, food containers or equipment by the Health
Officer. Said food, food containers or equipment shall not be relabeled,
replaced, reprocessed, repackaged, altered, disposed of, destroyed or placed
back in service without the permission of the Health Officer, except on order
by a Court of competent jurisdiction. The permit holder may make a written
request for a hearing with the Health Officer before imposition of condemnation
according to the procedures set out in §§
55.65 and
55.66.
(1993 Code, § 55.20) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.36 EMPLOYEE HEALTH.
   When the Health Department has reasonable cause to suspect the possibility
of disease transmission by an employee of any establishment regulated by this
chapter, the Health Officer shall investigate the suspected employee and take
appropriate action pursuant to this chapter and state statutes.
(1993 Code, § 55.21) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.37 CONSTRUCTION AND REMODELING.
   (A)   Whenever any establishment, mobile food establishment, or commissary
regulated by the provisions of this chapter is constructed or extensively
remodeled, or whenever an existing structure is converted to use as an
establishment, mobile food establishment, or commissary to be regulated by this
chapter, plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or
conversion shall be submitted to the Health Officer for review and approval
before construction, remodeling or conversion may begin.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement, mechanical plans and construction materials of work areas, and the
type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The Health Officer
shall inspect the proposed establishment, mobile food establishment, or
commissary prior to the beginning or resumption of operations to determine
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and the requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Mobile food establishments must have a source of power to operate
equipment such as cooking equipment, refrigerator units, and pumps. The mobile
food establishment must also have the ability to power equipment while in
motion to maintain minimum temperatures of time/temperature control for safety
food.
   (D)   If the mobile food establishment uses propane, natural gas, or has a
fire suppression hood, proof of approval from the local governing body in the
location for which they have applied shall be provided during the plan review
process to the Health Department.
(1993 Code, § 55.22) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 2-
1-2018)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 55.50 INSPECTION SCHEDULE.
   The Health Department shall conduct unannounced, routine on-site inspections
for each food establishment, mobile food establishment, commissary and
temporary food establishment operating in the county in accordance with the
guidelines established by the State Department of Public Health, 77 Ill. Adm.
Code Ch. 1, § 615 as follows.
   (A)   Category 1 and 1a facilities shall receive three inspections per year,
or two inspections per year if one of the following conditions is met:
      (1)   A certified food service manager is present at all times the
facility is in operation; or
      (2)   Employees involved in food operations receive HACCP training
exercise, in-service training in another food service sanitation area or attend
an educational conference on food safety or sanitation.
   (B)   Category 2 and 2a facilities shall receive one inspection per year.
   (C)   Category 3 facilities shall receive one inspection every two years.
   (D)   Temporary food establishments shall be provided consultation and/or an
on-site inspection a minimum of one time for each permit issued.
(1993 Code, § 55.30) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.51 INSPECTION REPORT.
   Whenever an inspection of an establishment, mobile food establishment, or
commissary is made, the findings shall be recorded on a standardized inspection
report form pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 750. One copy of the completed
inspection report form will be furnished to the permit holder or his or her
agent at the time of inspection. If violations of this chapter exist, the
inspection report shall serve as official notice to the permit holder that the
establishment, mobile food establishment, or commissary is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. The completed inspection report form shall specify
the violations found by the Health Officer, and shall establish a reasonable
time period within which said violations must be corrected.
(1993 Code, § 55.31) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.52 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Health Officer, after proper identification, shall have access at any
reasonable time to any establishment, mobile food establishment, commissary, or
temporary event establishments regulated by this chapter. Reasonable time for
the purposes of this section shall mean at all times the establishment is open
to the public. The Health Officer shall be permitted to examine all areas and
records of the establishment which are reasonably necessary to his or her
inspection or investigation. Denial of access as herein provided shall be
deemed as interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or her
duties, including, but not limited to, denial of access to the permit holder’s
building, mobile unit, temporary event stand or records.
(1993 Code, § 55.32) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
HEARINGS
§ 55.65 HEARINGS BEFORE THE HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Any person affected by any order or notice issued by the Health
Department in connection with the enforcement of any section of this chapter,
may file in the office of the Health Department written request for a hearing
before the Health Officer. Unless stated elsewhere in this chapter, the Health
Officer shall designate a place and hold the hearing at a time within 14 days
from the date on which the written request was filed.
   (B)   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and place
of hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the hearing is to
be held.
   (C)   If, as a result of the hearing, the Health Officer finds that strict
compliance with the order or notice would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order or notice, the
Health Officer may modify or withdraw the order or notice as a condition for
such action may, where deemed necessary, make requirements which are additional
to those prescribed in this chapter for the purpose of properly protecting the
public health.
   (D)   The Health Officer shall render a decision within ten days after the
date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing. An appeal from a
decision of the Health Officer may be made to the Circuit Court of Madison
County, pursuant to the Illinois Administrative Review Act, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et
seq., as amended.
(1993 Code, § 55.40) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any permit holder who violates the provisions of this chapter or any of the
regulations promulgated hereunder, shall be subject to prosecution for an
offense for each and every day on which the violation continues and each day
that the offense continues shall constitute a separate offense. The permit
holder shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense.
Further, the Health Officer, with the approval of the Board of Health, may seek
injunctive relief and fines for noncompliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The County State’s Attorney serves as legal counsel and prosecuting
officer for the Board of Health and Health Department.
(1993 Code, § 55.99) (Ord. 2008-15, passed 11-19-2008; Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-
1-2018)
Schedule "A"
Food Permit Fees
   Permit fees shall be non-refundable once a permit has been issued by the
Health Department.
   Effective December 1, 2018 the fee schedule is as follows:
                                                  Amount
Category 1 Annual Permit                          $375.00
Category 2 Annual Permit                          $375.00
Category 3 Annual Permit                          $150.00
Mobile Food Establishment Annual Service Permit   $375.00
Temporary Permit                                  $75.00
Temporary Permit Late Fee (48 hours before event) $75.00
Plan Review Fee                                   $200.00
Concession Stand                                  $150.00
Food Pantry                                       $40.00
Cottage Food Vendor Registration                  $25.00
Annual Permit Late Payment Fee                    $75,00
Enforcement Penalty Maximum Fine                  $1,000.00
 
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 12-1-2018)
CHAPTER 56: TRANSPORTATION REGULATIONS
Section
   
56.01   Purpose
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Motor vehicles
   
56.04   Alcohol related offenses
   
56.05   Trespass
   
56.06   Defacing property
   
56.07   Littering
   
56.08   Tampering with coin-operated devices
   
56.09   Disorderly conduct
   
56.10   Unlawful weapons
   
56.11   Assault and battery
   
56.12   Spitting
   
56.13   Horses
   
56.14   Hunting
   
56.15   Incorporation by reference
   
56.16   Impoundment of vehicles
 
   
56.99   Penalty
§ 56.01 PURPOSE.
   The following sections shall govern the conduct of persons on or about any
property owned by the county, the County Mass Transit District or any other
transportation entity whether publicly or privately owned, including, but not
limited to, all real property owned and operated by such entities including all
vehicles, bike, walking or other recreational trails, including all railroad
rights-of-way owned by the Transit District. In addition and where applicable,
the following sections shall govern such conduct on private property.
(1993 Code, § 56.01) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, beer and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being, except for any such liquid or
solid containing 0.5% or less, of alcohol by volume.
   LASER POINTER. A hand-held device that emits light amplified by the
stimulated emission of radiation visible to the human eye.
   LASER SIGHT. A laser pointer that can be attached to a firearm and can be
used to improve the accuracy of the firearm.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled by power other than human power
designed to travel on the ground or upon roads by use of wheels, treads,
runners or slides, or to transport persons or property, or pull machinery, and
includes, but is not limited to, all automobiles, vans, buses, trucks,
trailers, motorcycles, off-highway motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles and
tractors. This term does not apply to any motorized wheelchair.
   PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION PROPERTY. Any real property, which the county, Transit
District or a public transportation entity, owns, leases or possesses.
   TRANSIT DISTRICT or TRANSIT DISTRICT PROPERTY. Any real property, which the
County Mass Transit District owns, leases or possesses, including all bike,
walking, and recreational trails and all railroad rights-of-way owned by the
Transit District.
(1993 Code, § 56.02) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002)
§ 56.03 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park a motor vehicle at any time on county or Transit
District property except with the authority from the county or Transit District
or in designated public parking areas.
   (B)   No person shall drive, operate or otherwise bring a motor vehicle into
any Transit District bike, walking or other recreational trail, including all
Transit District railroad rights-of-way, without the prior consent of the
Transit District.
(1993 Code, § 56.03) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.04 ALCOHOL RELATED OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall drink or consume alcoholic liquor in or on any Transit
District motor vehicle, other publicly owned and operated bus service or upon
or across Transit District property.
   (B)   No person shall transport alcoholic liquor in unsealed containers in
or on any Transit District motor vehicle, other publicly owned and operated bus
service, or upon or across Transit District property.
   (C)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall enter any Transit
District motor vehicle or other publicly owned and operated bus service and do
either of the following:
      (1)   Engage in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the
offender, if he or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such
effect on others; or
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition, which presents a risk of
physical harm to himself or herself, a passenger, or Transit District employee
or to the property of another.
(1993 Code, § 56.04) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.05 TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person shall commit a trespass in or on any county, Mass Transit
District or any other transportation entity property.
   (B)   No person shall operate an all-terrain vehicle or off-highway
motorcycle on any land without the prior consent of the owner, whether publicly
owned or privately owned land.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, acts constituting TRESPASS include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   An entry upon county, Transit District or any transportation entity
property, whether publicly or privately owned, or any private property, or any
part thereof in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main entrance
to such premises or any point of approach or entry; or, in violation of any
notice, warning or protest, given orally or in writing by the county, Transit
District or transportation entity;
      (2)   A failure or refusal to depart from county, Transit District or any
other transportation entity property, or any part thereof, when requested,
either orally or in writing, to leave such property by the owner; and/or
      (3)   An entry into or upon any county, Transit District or other
transportation entity motor vehicle without the consent of either the Transit
District or other transportation entity, or a failure or refusal to leave with
any such motor vehicle after being requested to leave by the county, Transit
District or transportation entity.
   (D)   No person shall, without the prior consent of county, the Transit
District or any transportation entity, post up, stick or place any handbill,
showbill, placard or notice in or on any county, Transit District or entity
motor vehicle or building, wall or fence.
(1993 Code, § 56.05) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.06 DEFACING PROPERTY.
   No person shall, without the consent of the county, Transit District or any
other transportation entity, paint, draw, etch or carve, by use of paint, spray
paint, ink, knife or any similar method, on any county, Transit District or
other transportation entity motor vehicle, building wall, fence, door, floor,
sidewalk, pavement, stairway or furniture.
(1993 Code, § 56.06) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.07 LITTERING.
   No person shall have brought in, dump, deposit, throw or leave any bottles,
broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or
refuse or other trash in or on any county, Transit District or any other
transportation entity motor vehicle or upon any county, Transit District or any
other transportation entity property, except in receptacles provided for that
purpose.
(1993 Code, § 56.07) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.08 TAMPERING WITH COIN-OPERATED DEVICES.
   No person shall insert or attempt to insert any slug, counterfeit coin or
other foreign or metallic substance not a coin of the United States currency,
or injure, deface, destroy or otherwise tamper with any county, Mass Transit
District or any other transportation entity coin-operated device.
(1993 Code, § 56.08) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.09 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
Transit District or other transportation entity employees, guests or
passengers, in or on any Transit District or other transportation entity motor
vehicle, or upon Transit District or other transportation entity property, by
doing any of the following:
   (A)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property, or
in violent or turbulent behavior;
   (B)   Making an unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
   (C)   Insulting, taunting or challenging another under circumstances in
which such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
   (D)   Smoking, eating or drinking beverages on a Transit District or other
transportation entity bus;
   (E)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons so as to interfere
with the rights of others and by any act which serves no lawful and reasonable
purpose of the offender;
   (F)   Obstructing or permitting the obstruction of any doorway, stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in such a manner that it interferes with the free use
of such doorway, stairway, aisle, corridor or exit;
   (G)   Creating a condition which is physically offensive to persons or which
presents a risk of physical harm to person or property by any act, which serves
no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
   (H)   Interfere with, disable or incapacitate any dispatcher, driver or
person while they are dispatching, operating or maintaining a Transit District
vehicle, with the intent to endanger the safety of the employee or any
passenger or with reckless disregard for the safety of human life; or
   (I)   Commits an act, including the use of a dangerous weapon, with the
intent to cause harm to a Transit District employee while the employee is
performing Transit District duties.
(1993 Code, § 56.09) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.10 UNLAWFUL WEAPONS.
   No person shall possess or carry any bludgeon, black jack, sling-shot, club,
sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife, commonly referred to as switchblade
knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a
button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife, or possess or carry
with the intent to use the same unlawfully against another, a dagger, dirk,
billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle or other piece of glass,
cutting edge or any other dangerous instrument of like character, or carry
concealed upon his or her person any pistol, revolver or other firearm, into or
upon county, Transit District or any other transportation entity buses,
vehicles or property.
(1993 Code, § 56.10) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.11 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, engage in conduct that
places an employee of the county, the Transit District or any other
transportation entity passenger or employee in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery. The prohibited conduct in this section includes, but is
not limited to, directing a laser pointer or laser sight at or near a county,
Transit District or any other transportation entity passenger or employee.
   (B)   No person shall, without legal justification, intentionally or
knowingly cause bodily harm or make physical contact of an insulting or
provoking nature to a county, Transit District or any other transportation
entity passenger or employee. The prohibited conduct in this division includes,
but is not limited to, directing a laser pointer or laser sight on the person
of a county, Transit District or any other transportation entity passenger or
employee.
(1993 Code, § 56.11) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.12 SPITTING.
   No person shall expectorate in or on any county, Transit District or any
other transportation entity property or motor vehicle.
(1993 Code, § 56.12) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.13 HORSES.
   No person shall ride, lead, walk or otherwise bring any horse, mule, donkey
or other animal for riding into Transit District property, including but not
limited to, any Transit District bike, walking or other recreational trail,
including all Transit District railroad rights-of-way.
(1993 Code, § 56.13) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.14 HUNTING.
   No person shall take, hunt, shoot, pursue, lure, kill, destroy, capture, gig
or spear, trap or ensnare, harass, or attempt to do so, wild birds or wild
animals along, upon, across or from any Mass Transit District bike, walking or
other recreational trail, including all Transit District railroad rights-of-
way.
(1993 Code, § 56.14) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.15 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   The county hereby incorporates by reference and makes a part hereof the
following provisions of the ILCS, and as they may be amended from time-to-time
by the State General Assembly. Violation of these provisions may, at the
discretion of the State’s Attorney’s Office, be enforced as an ordinance
violation:
   (A)   625 ILCS 5/11-204, Fleeing or Attempting to Elude a Police Officer;
   (B)   625 ILCS 5/11-204.1, Aggravated Fleeing or Attempting to Elude a
Police Officer;
   (C)   625 ILCS 5/11-1427, Illegal Operation of an All-Terrain Vehicle or
Off-Highway Motorcycle;
   (D)   625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1, Operation of All-Terrain Vehicles and Off-
Highway Motorcycles on streets, roads or highways;
   (E)   625 ILCS 5/11-1427.4, Disobeying a Signal from Officer to Stop;
   (F)   720 ILCS 5/12-3.05, Aggravated Battery;
   (G)   720 ILCS 5/21-3, Criminal Trespass to Real Property; and
   (H)   720 ILCS 5/36-1, Seizure and Forfeiture of Vessels, Vehicles and
Aircraft.
(1993 Code, § 56.15) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.16 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES.
   In addition to any and all remedies provided in this chapter and the general
provisions of this code, the County Sheriff is hereby authorized to impound any
motor vehicle, which is used in violation of this chapter, or the statutes
incorporated by reference in this chapter. It shall be the sole responsibility
of the owner to pay any and all transportation and storage fees of the motor
vehicle.
(1993 Code, § 56.16) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500. Each and every act in violation
constitutes a separate offense; and, each and every day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 56.99) (Ord. 2002-09, passed 6-19-2002)
TITLE VII: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
70.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
71.   AMUSEMENTS
      
72.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
73.   EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
      
74.   MERCHANTS PROVIDING PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
      
75.   SOLICITORS
      
76.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
77.   BODY ART
      
78.   ELECTRONIC REPORTING OF PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
CHAPTER 70: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
Licensing Regulations
   
70.015   License required
   
70.016   General license provisions
   
70.017   License classifications; license fees
   
70.018   Initial application and procedures
   
70.019   Application update requirements
   
70.020   Persons ineligible to be licensed
   
70.021   Renewal application and process; late fees
   
70.022   License transfers
   
70.023   Special event permits
   
70.024   Location restrictions
Prohibited Conduct
   
70.035   On premises violations
   
70.036   Civil rights violations
   
70.037   Sales promotion violations
   
70.038   Sales violations
   
70.039   Underage persons violations
   
70.040   Miscellaneous alcohol-related violations
   
70.041   Prohibiting sale and possession of substances containing mephedrone
and methylenedioxyprovalerone
Standards of Operations
   
70.055   Hours of operation
   
70.056   Public health standards
   
70.057   Employment of underage persons
   
70.058   Duty to call law enforcement
   
70.059   Display of license and warning signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.070   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
70.071   Commissioner’s powers
   
70.072   Emergency closing
   
70.073   Vicarious liability
   
70.074   Complaint procedures
   
70.075   Hearing procedures
   
70.076   License revocation
   
70.077   Appeal procedures
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
and phrases used in this chapter which are not defined herein shall have the
meaning ascribed to such words and phrases in the Illinois Liquor Control Act,
as amended.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may by the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or solid,
patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of
being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder. No fees provided for in this chapter shall apply to wine intended
for use and used by any church or religious organization for sacramental
purposes, provided that such wine is being purchased from a licensed
manufacturer or importing distributor as defined by the Illinois Liquor Control
Act.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BEER GARDEN. A privately owned outdoor location adjacent to a premises where
alcoholic liquor may be sold and consumed subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such CLUB files with the Commissioner at the
time of its application for a license under this chapter two copies of a list
of names and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of
the election of any additional member his or her name and address; and,
provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of
directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their
annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the CLUB
is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other
compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the CLUB or the members of the club or its guests introduced by members beyond
the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by
the members or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the
general revenue of the club.
   COMMISSIONER. The Chairperson of the County Board shall be the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner in the territory of the county outside the corporate
limits of any city, village or incorporated town. The terms MADISON COUNTY
LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER and LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER mean and are
synonymous with the term COMMISSIONER. This name or term shall mean and include
the License Committee, the County State’s Attorney and the County Sheriff (when
appointed by the Commissioner to assist the Commissioner in the powers and
performance of his or her duties).
   CONTINUOUS OPERATION. Operation of the licensed business for at least five
hours a day for a period of at least five days a week.
   CO-PARTNERSHIP. An association of two or more persons intending to act as
co-owners of a business for profit.
   CORPORATION. Any corporation, domestic or foreign, qualified to do business
in the state under the Business Corporation Act of Illinois, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et
seq. Satisfactory evidence of such qualification shall be furnished to the
county in the form and manner as the Commissioner and County Board shall from
time to time designate.
   COUNTY RETAILER’S LICENSE FOR THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Any liquor
license category or classification described in this chapter, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, other than a manufacturer or non-resident dealer
licensed under 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., who is engaged in this state in
purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic liquors for resale
or reselling at wholesale, whether within or without this state.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works for a holder of a liquor license whether that
holder be an individual, a corporation, a co-partnership, a manager or an
agent. An EMPLOYEE is someone who works for salary or wages or other
compensation. An uncompensated person may be deemed an employee for purposes of
this chapter if that person works under the direction of, or knowledge of a
liquor license holder whether that license holder be an individual, a
corporation, a co-partnership, a partner, a manager or an agent. The word
SERVANT is deemed to be synonymous with the word EMPLOYEE.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent for residential, in which 25 or more
rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and having one or
more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such sleeping
accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT. The Illinois statute, as amended, found at 235
ILCS 5/1 et seq.
   LICENSE COMMITTEE. The five members of the County License Committee.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The place of business or other completely enclosed
location particularly described in a liquor license or an application for a
liquor license where alcoholic liquor is stored, displayed or offered for sale;
or, where drinks containing alcoholic liquor are mixed, concocted, poured or
served for consumption. This term shall include only the permanent structure
housing the licensed business and any enclosed area adjacent to this structure
that is designated as a beer garden. The licensed premises does not include
sidewalks, streets, other portions of the public way, private parking areas or
the property outside such permanent structure and beer garden on the property.
   LICENSEE. All persons who are owners or are in control of any place where
the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they be
individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries,
officers, directors, stockholders, employees, managers or bartenders.
   MANAGER. A person employed by a licensee for the purpose of overseeing the
operation of a licensed business and exercising discretionary authority on
behalf of the licensee during the hours that the manager is on duty.
   NON-ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human
being, and containing 0.5%, or less, of alcohol by volume.
   OFFICIAL. Any person holding elected office, any person appointed to fill a
vacancy created in an elected office, and any law enforcement official.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. A bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of an alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
   PARTNER. Any individual who is a member of a co-partnership.
   PATRON. Any customer, patron or visitor of a licensed establishment who is
not employed by the licensee of such establishment.
   RESIDENT. Any person (other than a corporation) who has resided and
maintained a bona fide residence in the state for at least one year and in the
county in which the premises is covered or the license is located, for at least
90 days prior to making application for such license.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place having regular menus which is kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are
served, and where meals are actually and regularly served, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. In addition, any
business claiming to be a restaurant must document, upon demand, that 50% or
more of its gross receipts are derived from the sale of food, as distinguished
from alcoholic liquor.
   RETAILER. A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent,
servant or employee. The term SALE includes any transfer of alcoholic liquor
from a foreign importer’s license to an importing distributor’s license even if
both licenses are held by the same person.
   SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civic, religious or non-profit organization.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   UNDERAGE. Any person under 21 years of age, the legally minimum age at which
one can lawfully purchase and consume alcoholic liquor.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(1993 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Control Act definitions, see 235 ILCS 5/1-3.01 through 1-3.39
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 70.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall sell at retail any alcoholic liquor or conduct any
place for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, within the limits and
territory of this county without first having obtained a valid retailer’s
license issued by the Commissioner for each premises where the retailer is
located to sell the same. It shall likewise be unlawful for any such person to
sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquors, alcoholic or malt or vinous
beverages in violation of the terms and conditions of such license.
   (B)   A liquor license issued by the Commissioner is required for and with
respect to any building location and premises, within the unincorporated
territory of this county, at or upon which alcoholic liquor is to be sold or
kept or offered for sale at retail.
   (C)   The issuance or possession of a retail liquor dealer tax stamp to any
person, when issued by the United States government, or any of its agencies,
for a then existing tax period, said retail liquor tax stamp shall be and
constitute prima facie evidence that such person is subject to the provisions
of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 70.10) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Scope of Act, see 235 ILCS 5/2-1
§ 70.016 GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No licensee may be under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The application for a license for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
shall be filed with the Commissioner through the office of the County Auditor.
   (C)   All applicable licensing fees shall be paid by the applicant with a
certified check, cashier’s check or money order at the time the application for
license is submitted. Personal checks will not be accepted. In the event that
the liquor license is denied, said license fees shall be refunded to the
applicant.
   (D)   Each liquor license issued under this chapter shall terminate at
midnight on December 31 of the same calendar year of its issuance, unless
sooner revoked as provided in this chapter or under state law.
   (E)   If any question on the application is unanswered or answered
incompletely, such omission shall cause the application to be voided and shall
cause the Commissioner to reject that application.
   (F)   If, after a liquor license is issued, it is discovered that an
application question was left unanswered or was incompletely answered, the
Commissioner shall immediately notify the applicant and licensee of such
omission. The applicant and licensee shall have five business days from receipt
of this notice to supplement the application with a written and sworn
affidavit. Failure to supplement the application within the specified period
will result in immediate revocation of the liquor license.
   (G)   Every license shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the licensee as well as the names of each member of a
co-partnership; the officers and directors of a club; the officers, directors,
manager and authorized agent of a corporation; and the names of the trustee of
a trust;
      (2)   Language that describes with particularity the premises covered by
such liquor license;
      (3)   The class of liquor license issued to the licensee for such
premises; and
      (4)   The signature of the Commissioner and the attestation of the Clerk
of the Liquor Control Commission, with the seal of office affixed thereto.
   (H)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees.
Where the continuous operation of the licensee business has lapsed for a period
longer than 90 days, said license shall expire. However, if the licensee’s
premises have been destroyed or damaged either by fire or an act of God, and
cannot be rebuilt or repaired within a 90-day period, then the Commissioner may
extend the period of time for which the liquor license may be held without
being in continuous operation for an additional 90 days.
(1993 Code, § 70.11) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Res. passed 2-17-2010)
Penalty see, §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Local control, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1 and 4-4
§ 70.017 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All county liquor licenses are for the duration of a normal calendar
year, except where explicitly noted, and shall be classified according to the
following classes.
      (1)   Class A. A tavern and restaurant license shall entitle the licensee
to sell any alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink or pitcher, for
consumption on the premises; or to sell any alcoholic liquor at retail, (where
said alcoholic liquor is enclosed in the original bottle, jug, can, cask,
barrel, keg or other receptacle or container, corked, capped or sealed and
labeled by a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor), for consumption off the
premises.
      (2)   Class B. A package liquor license shall entitle the licensee to
sell any alcoholic liquor at retail, (where said alcoholic liquor is enclosed
in the original bottle, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg or other receptacle or
container, corked, capped or sealed and labeled by a manufacturer of alcoholic
liquor), for consumption off the premises.
      (3)   Class C. A caterer’s license shall entitle the licensee to transfer
alcoholic liquor, (where enclosed in the original bottle, jug, can, cask,
barrel, keg or other receptacle or container, corked, capped or sealed and
labeled by a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor), from the licensee’s premises to
the catered premises where said alcoholic liquor is to be sold at retail by the
drink or pitcher, for consumption on the premises being catered.
      (4)   Class D. A special use license shall entitle a licensee holding a
Class A license to transfer alcoholic liquor, (where enclosed in the original
bottle, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg or other receptacle or container, corked,
capped or sealed and labeled by a manufacturer of alcoholic liquor), from the
licensee’s premises to a designated site for a special event, where said
alcoholic liquor is to be sold at retail by the drink or pitcher, for
consumption at the site of the special event.
      (5)   Class E. A special event license shall entitle a current licensee,
or an educational, fraternal, political, civic, religious or non-profit
organization to sell beer and wine only for consumption at the site of the
special event on the dates designated on the special event license, said period
not to exceed three days for each event. No licensee shall be issued special
event licenses that would authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail for
more than an aggregate of ten days within one calendar year.
   (B)   The fee for a Class A, B or C liquor license shall be payable in
advance, and shall be for the full amount of the licensing fee if purchased by
an initial applicant prior to July 1 of the year the license is requested; and
shall be for half of the full amount of the licensing fee if purchased by an
initial applicant on or after July 1 of the year the license is requested. In
no case, however, will there be a pro rata refund of any unused portions of a
liquor license.
   (C)   License fees.
      (1)   The annual fee for a Class A or B license that is purchased prior
to July 1 of the year the license is applied for is $600.
      (2)   The annual fee for a Class A or B license that is purchased on or
after July 1 of the year the license is applied for is $300.
      (3)   The annual license fee for a Class C license that is purchased
prior to July 1 of the year the license is applied for $200.
      (4)   The annual fee for a Class C license that is purchased on or after
July 1 of the year the license is applied for is $100.
      (5)   The fee for a Class D or E license is $25 per day, for a period not
to exceed ten days in one calendar year.
(1993 Code, § 70.12) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 93-10, passed 12-15-
1993; Ord. 96-10, passed 9-18-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction over retail selling in county boards; minors, see 235 ILCS 5/4-
1
§ 70.018 INITIAL APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   There shall be a 30-day waiting period before the issuance of a
license for retail sale of alcoholic liquor in order to provide sufficient time
for a background check of the applicant. The 30-day period shall begin to run
upon the receipt of a properly completed application by the Commissioner.
   (B)   An application for a liquor license shall be made in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. The office of the Auditor shall forward the
application to the Commissioner who shall assist the Commissioner in the
exercise of his or her powers and the performance of his or her duties as Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   In the case of an applicant who is an individual, the application
shall be in writing, verified by oath or affidavit and signed by the applicant.
   (D)   In the case of a co-partnership, corporation or trust, the information
and statements required by this section shall be furnished at least as to each
partner, as to the president and secretary of the corporation, and as to the
trustee.
   (E)   In the case of an application on behalf of a co-partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, the application shall be in writing, verified
by oath or affidavit, and signed by at least two members of the co-partnership,
firm, association or club; or by the president and secretary of the
corporation; or by the trustee.
   (F)   Said application shall include the following statements and
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, residence address, current telephone number,
sex, date of birth, Social Security number, position and percentage of
ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date of birth, Social Security
number, position and percentage of ownership in the business of every sole
owner, co-partner, trustee, corporate officer, director, manager, authorized
agent and any person who directly or beneficially holding 5% or more of the
shares of the applicant business entity or parent corporations of the applicant
business entity;
      (2)   In the case of a co-partnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation or club, the date of its
incorporation; or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the Business
Corporation Act, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in the state; in
the case of a trust, the date of its creation;
      (3)   The citizenship of the applicant, place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of naturalization and length of
residence in this county;
      (4)   The name and address of the applicant’s business; and in the case
of a corporation, club or trust, the address and telephone number of its
principal office or place of business;
      (5)   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, club or trust, the object for which it was organized or created;
the length of time the applicant has been in business of that character, or in
the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was issued;
      (6)   The name and address of the owner, managing agent or trustee of the
premises if the premises are being purchased under a contract for deed, are
being leased or are held in trust;
      (7)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (8)   The applicant’s retailer’s occupation tax (ROT) registration
number;
      (9)   The applicant’s document locator number on the federal special tax
stamp;
      (10)   A statement as to whether the applicant has made application for a
similar license on the same premises described in the application, and the
disposition of such application;
      (11)   A statement as to whether the applicant has made application for a
similar license on premises other than those described in the application, and
the disposition of such application;
      (12)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been convicted of
any of the following:
         (a)   A felony;
         (b)   A gambling offense;
         (c)   A violation of law concerning the manufacture, possession or
sale of cannabis, narcotics or other controlled substances; and
         (d)   A violation of law concerning the manufacture, possession or
sale of alcoholic liquor.
      (13)   A statement as to whether the applicant is disqualified to receive
a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in state law or in this
chapter;
      (14)   A statement as to whether any previous license for the sale of
alcoholic liquor issued by the federal government; by any state, or subdivision
thereof; or by any county, municipal or village government has been revoked,
and the reasons for such revocation; and
      (15)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state, or of the United States, or any provision of this chapter in the
conduct of business.
   (G)   At the time of filing an application for a liquor license and upon the
payment of all applicable license fees, the applicant must produce a policy of
insurance (dramshop) in a solvent and responsible company authorized to do
business in the state insuring said licensee against liability for any injury,
death or property loss or damage which said licensee may incur while operating
under the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act and this chapter.
      (1)   Said policy of insurance must be issued with policy limits of
$30,000 dollars per occurrence for the loss or damage of any person’s property,
$30,000 per occurrence for the injury of any person and $40,000 per occurrence
for loss of means of support resulting from the death or injury of any person;
or, with a combined single limit of $100,000 per occurrence.
      (2)   Each applicant must produce a certificate of such insurance
indicating that the insurer will notify the Commissioner of any cancellation of
said insurance policy no less than ten days prior to cancellation of such
insurance policy for any reasons.
      (3)   The term of the insurance policy must be co-extensive with the term
of the liquor license.
      (4)   Termination or lapse of the licensee’s insurance (dramshop)
coverage shall be grounds for the revocation of such license.
   (H)   File an affidavit with the office of the Auditor disclosing any
outstanding debt owed by the applicant to the county or state. If the applicant
is a co-partnership, then this disclosure requirement shall apply to every
person entitled to a share in the profits thereof. If the applicant is a trust,
then this shall apply to the trustee and trust. If the applicant is a
corporation for profit, the disclosure requirements of this subdivision shall
apply to the corporation and all shareholders owning more than 5% of the shares
of the corporation applicant.
(1993 Code, § 70.13) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 94-16, passed 11-16-
1994; Res. passed 2-17-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Application for state license; license application fee, see 235 ILCS 5/7-
1 and 7-2
§ 70.019 APPLICATION UPDATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The application for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor has an
affirmative and continuing requirement to update the original application. As a
result, all applicants must inform the Commissioner of any changes in the
information listed in the application within 30 days. Such changes which must
be reported to the Commissioner, and which require the filing of a supplemental
affidavit or sworn statement include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Any change in co-partners, trustees, managers or authorized agents,
must be reported to the office of the Auditor and must include the name,
residence address, sex, date of birth, Social Security number, position and
percentage of ownership (if any) of any person not previously included in the
original application;
      (2)   All internal changes in a corporation pertaining to change of name,
officers, directors and stockholders directly or beneficially holding in the
aggregate more than 5% of said corporate stock, and must include the name,
residence address, sex, date of birth, Social Security number, position and
percentage of ownership (if any) of any person not previously included in the
original application;
      (3)   All new co-partners, trustees, managers, authorized agents,
officers, directors or stockholders directly or beneficially holding more than
5% of a corporation must satisfy all of the eligibility requirements of a
liquor licensee as provided in this chapter; and
      (4)   Any change in the status of the premises to be licensed, including,
but not limited to, changes in zoning classification, revocation of special use
permit and incorporation or annexation by a municipality or village.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section, or knowingly
furnishing false information on the liquor license application shall be grounds
for immediate suspension or revocation of any liquor license held by such
applicant or licensee.
(1993 Code, § 70.14) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Res. passed 2-17-2010)
§ 70.020 PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO BE LICENSED.
   No license for the sale of alcoholic liquor shall be issued to the following
applicants:
   (A)   Any applicant who is not a resident of the county;
   (B)   Any applicant who is not a citizen of the United States of America;
   (C)   Any applicant who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which the applicant resides or the premises to be licensed are
located;
   (D)   Any applicant who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, who the Commissioner determines, after investigation, has not been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust;
   (E)   Any applicant who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping
a house of ill fame;
   (F)   Any applicant person who has been convicted of pandering or other
crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   Any applicant whose license has been revoked for cause, pursuant to
the rules promulgated under this chapter or under state law;
   (H)   Any applicant who is ineligible for or fails to receive a license to
sell alcoholic liquor at retail from the state;
   (I)   A co-partnership, if any member of the limited or general partnership
would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
residence within the county;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such
corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residence within the county;
   (K)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., to transact business in the state;
   (L)   Any applicant whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required
of an applicant;
   (M)   A corporation, association or co-partnership that does not employ a
manager or agent;
   (N)   Any applicant who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or
who has forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any
such violation;
   (O)   Any applicant who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of cannabis, narcotics
or other controlled substances, or who has forfeited bond to appear in court to
answer charges for any such violation;
   (P)   Any applicant who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, nor does he or she have a lease thereon for a minimum period
of one year, a contract for deed or a land trust;
   (Q)   Any applicant who has not recorded the deed, contract for deed, lease
or trust for the premises with the Office of the Auditor;
   (R)   Any applicant who is a law enforcement official, including members of
the Commission; any mayor, alderman or member of a city council or commission;
any president or member of a village board of trustees; or a Chairperson or
member of the County Board; and no official shall be interested in any way,
either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, retail sale or distribution
of alcoholic liquors;
   (S)   Any applicant who has been convicted of a gambling offense as
prescribed by any of subsections of 720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(10) or
28-3, as heretofore or hereafter amended, or as prescribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (T)   Any premises where there has not been an inspection and approval as
complying with the laws of the county as to the zoning requirements, building
construction and sanitation facilities, including the provision of an
“unobstructed view” as required by the State Liquor Control Act; or
   (U)   Any applicant who knowingly submits false or incomplete information on
a liquor license application.
(1993 Code, § 70.15) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Res. passed 2-17-2010)
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Persons ineligible to be licensed, see 235 ILCS 5/6-2
§ 70.021 RENEWAL APPLICATION AND PROCESS; LATE FEES.
   (A)   Any licensee may renew the license at the expiration thereof, provided
that the licensee is then qualified to receive a license, and that the premises
for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purposes; and,
provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the County Board
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   To renew a liquor license, an applicant must submit an affidavit to
the office of the Auditor, stating that the information and statements
contained in the original application have not changed. Upon such affidavit
being filed, the license may be renewed without the filing of an application as
provided in this section.
   (C)   If the information and statements contained in the original
application have changed then, the applicant must submit a supplement to the
original application. This supplement shall be in writing, verified by oath or
affidavit, and signed by the applicant if an individual. In the case of a
renewal application on behalf of a co-partnership, firm, association, club or
corporation, the application shall be in writing, verified by oath or
affidavit, and signed by at least two members of the co-partnership, firm,
association or club; or by the president and secretary of the corporation; or
by the trustee.
   (D)   There shall be a 30-day waiting period before the issuance of a
renewal license for retail sale of alcoholic liquor in order to provide
sufficient time to verify the contents of the renewal application. The 30-day
period shall begin to run upon the receipt of a properly completed renewal
application by the Commissioner.
   (E)   To avoid any possible lapse in the liquor license renewal, all renewal
applications must be received before November 30 of the same year that the
liquor license is to expire. If the licensee fails to renew the county liquor
license on or before November 30 of the year prior to the expiration of the
license, said licensee any not engage in any activities for which a liquor
license is required until the licensee applies for a renewal license and remits
all applicable fees, including late fees.
   (F)   No retailer’s license shall be renewed if such retailer is delinquent
in filing any required tax returns or paying any amounts owed to the county
until the applicant is issued a certificate by the County Treasurer stating
that all delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid by cashier’s check,
certified check, money order or cash.
   (G)   No retailer’s license shall be renewed if the Illinois Department of
Revenue has reported to the Illinois Liquor Control Commissioner or the County
Commissioner that such retailer is delinquent in filing any required tax
returns or paying any amounts owed to the state until the applicant is issued a
certificate by the Department of Revenue stating that all delinquent returns or
amounts owed have been paid by guaranteed remittance or a payment agreement to
pay all amounts owed has been accepted by this same Department.
   (H)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees.
Where the continuous operation of the licensee business has lapsed for a period
longer than 90 days, said license is not eligible for renewal.
      (1)   However, if the licensee’s premises have been destroyed or damaged
either by fire or an act of God, and cannot be rebuilt or repaired within a 90-
day period, then the Commissioner may extend the period of time for which the
liquor license may be held without being in continuous operation for an
additional 90 days.
      (2)   If the 90-day period elapses without the licensee returning to
continuous operation of the premises, the license for said premises shall
expire, and the applicant-licensee must make a new application for license.
   (I)   All applicable renewal fees shall be paid by the applicant with a
certified check, cashier’s check or money order at the time the application for
license is submitted. Personal checks will not be accepted. In the event that
the renewal license is denied, said license fees shall be refunded to the
applicant.
   (J)   Failure to supplement the renewal application when required, or
violation of any provision of this chapter may result in immediate suspension
or revocation of the liquor license.
   (K)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section, or knowingly
furnishing false information on the liquor license application shall be grounds
for immediate suspension or revocation of any liquor license held by such
applicant or licensee.
   (L)   Late fees. The late fee applicable under division (E) of this section
for license renewal applications not received before November 30 of the same
year that the liquor license is to expire is $100.
(1993 Code, § 70.16) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 93-10, passed 12-15-
1993; Res. passed 2-17-2010)
§ 70.022 LICENSE TRANSFERS.
   (A)   No existing liquor license shall be transferred or renewed in the name
of a different licensee. Any change in the licensee shall require filing a new
application and complete compliance with the application requirements herein.
Change in the licensee shall include sale or transfer of more than 5% of the
stock of a licensed corporation. The issuing of a new license in the event of
any such change shall be subject to all the requirements and conditions of this
chapter.
   (B)   A liquor license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for not to
exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked as provided in this
chapter or under 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq. Said license shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated.
   (C)   A liquor license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license
but not longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee.
   (D)   A person licensed pursuant to this chapter is authorized to sell
alcoholic liquor only at the premises, place or location described in the
application and license. An existing licensee may apply for a change of
location license transfer only when the licensee intends to abandon the
currently licensed location, when the proposed site for the new location is not
prohibited by this chapter, and when the licensee may properly be licensed
under the rules stated in this chapter. Such location may be changed only upon
written approval of the Commissioner.
   (E)   No request for a change of location shall be approved prior to the
expiration of 30 days from the date the application for a change of location is
filed. At the time of filing the request for a change of location, the licensee
may be required to pay a filing fee.
(1993 Code, § 70.17) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Transferability, see 235 ILCS 5/6-1
§ 70.023 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS.
   (A)   The Commissioner is authorized and empowered to grant and issue to any
person, corporation or association, that holds a valid license to sell at
retail alcoholic liquors, issued by the State Liquor Control Commission of this
state, a permit authorizing the person to sell wine or beer only, and at a
particular place or premises to be described in the permit, for a period not to
exceed three days, which days are to be specified in the permit, upon the
payment by the applicant for the permit. No person, corporation or association
shall be issued permits that would authorize the sale of beer only for more
than an aggregate of ten days during any one calendar year.
   (B)   Upon proof being made to the Commissioner that no beer or other
beverage was sold, or offered for sale, pursuant to the permit on the day, and
at the place named in the special event permit, the Commissioner may issue to
the same person named in the permit a new permit to sell wine or beer only for
the period not used, for use at the same premises without any additional fee
being paid by the person, and upon the surrender and cancellation of the
original permit.
   (C)   The application procedure for the issuance of a special event license
shall be the same as that for any other license classification as set out in
this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 70.18) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Application for state license; prerequisites, see 235 ILCS 5/7-1
   Definition of special event retailer, see 235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1
§ 70.024 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church; school, (other than an institution of higher
learning); hospital; home for the aged; home for the indigent; home for
veterans, their spouses or children; or military or naval station; provided
that prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs, restaurants, food shops or other places where the
sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business carried on, if such
place of business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes
prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to the
renewal of a license for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of
any church or school where such church or school has been established within
such distance since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a
church, this distance shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the issuance of a special event
license to a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any
such sales are limited to periods when such groups are assembled on the
premises solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor, for
consumption on the premises, if the premises sought to be licensed is within
250 feet, excluding streets, alleys and public ways, of an existing premises
licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor. Said distance shall be measured from
property line to property line; provided, however, that this prohibition shall
not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, restaurants or clubs. Nor
shall this restriction apply to a renewal licensee where said place of business
was established, licensed and operated continuously prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
   (E)   No license shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any undertaking establishment or mortuary.
   (F)   No license shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor at
any store or other place of business where the majority of customers are
underage or school age, or where the principal business transacted consists of
school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such underage
children.
(1993 Code, § 70.19) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Retail sales near churches, schools and the like, see 235 ILCS 5/6-11
   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like, see 235 ILCS 5/6-12
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 70.035 ON PREMISES VIOLATIONS.
   No person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail under this chapter
shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Permit any employee, agent, entertainer or patron to perform any lewd
or lascivious act, including, but not limited to, any demonstration, dance,
performance or exhibition on the licensed premises where said person engages in
any of the following conduct:
      (1)   Exposure of the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic region;
      (2)   Exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
or pubic region;
      (3)   Exposure of any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof;
      (4)   Performance or simulated performance of acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any other
sexual acts; or
      (5)   Display of moving pictures, photographic slide presentations, video
presentations or video projection presentations depicting acts or simulated
acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation,
flagellation or any other sexual acts.
   (B)   Employ or use the services of any person in the sale or service of
alcoholic liquor in or upon the licensed premises while such person is
unclothed or in such attire, costume or clothing so as to result in conduct
prohibited in division (A) above;
   (C)   Keep, place, maintain or operate any gambling device or instrument in
or upon the premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic liquor is sold
or given away, except as explicitly permitted under state statutes:
      (1)   Accept, receive or borrow money, or anything else of value directly
or indirectly from any person connected with or in any way representing any
manufacturer or distributor of any coin-operated or amusement licensed
premises; and
      (2)   However, the provisions of this division (C) shall not apply to
commissions or rental fees arising out of the use of such coin-operated or
amusement device on the licensed premises.
   (D)   Suffer any drunkenness, fighting, unlawful games, riotous or
disorderly conduct whatsoever, in any premises kept or occupied for the purpose
of sale at retail of alcoholic liquor.
(1993 Code, § 70.30) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.036 CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS.
   No person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail under this chapter
shall violate any patron’s civil rights by personally or vicariously committing
any of the following acts:
   (A)   Permitting an officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations,
advantages, facilities and privileges of any premises in which alcoholic
liquors are authorized to be sold, subject only to the conditions and
limitations established by law and applicable alike to all citizens;
   (B)   Refusing to serve alcoholic liquor to a person who presents
identification that he or she is 21 years of age or more provided that unless
the licensee, officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
reasonably doubts the authenticity of the offered identification; or
   (C)   Refusing to serve alcoholic liquor to a person who presents
identification that he or she is 21 years of age or more when the refusal of
service by the licensee, officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee is based in any part on the person’s race, color, creed, religion,
national origin or sex.
(1993 Code, § 70.31) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Civil rights in licensed premises, see 235 ILCS 5/6-17
§ 70.037 SALES PROMOTION VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Licensees are prohibited from selling, offering or delivering, during
any specified period of the business day, alcoholic drinks at lower prices than
would be charged for said drinks during the remainder of the business day; or
selling, offering or delivering, during a specified period of the business day,
alcoholic drinks of increased serving proportions without increasing the price,
as part of a “happy hour,” “double drinks” or “two-for-one” sales promotion.
   (B)   Licensees are also prohibited from selling, offering or delivering to
any person an unlimited quantity of alcoholic drinks during any specified time
period for a single, fixed price, except at private functions. For purposes of
this section, private functions are those not open to the public and held only
in a room not accessible by patrons of the premises other than those
individuals attending the private function.
   (C)   Licensees are further prohibited from selling, offering or delivering
alcoholic drinks to any person or class of persons on any one business day at
lower prices than would be charged the general public on any other business day
as part of a “ladies’ night,” “men’s night” or “college night” sales promotion.
   (D)   Licensees are additionally prohibited from encouraging or permitting
any game or contest on the licensed premises that involves drinking alcoholic
liquor or the awarding of alcoholic liquor as a prize.
   (E)   The prohibitions in this section are not intended to prevent a
licensee from offering free food or entertainment, including alcoholic
beverages as part of a meal package, or offering room services to registered
guests in hotels licensed for such services.
(1993 Code, § 70.32) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Happy hours prohibited, see 235 ILCS 5/6-28
§ 70.038 SALES VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No licensee, agent or employee shall knowingly allow an underage
person to purchase, be served, accept or otherwise possess any alcoholic or
non-alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises.
   (B)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
shall sell, give away or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under
the age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or
service.
   (C)   No licensee, agent or employees, shall suffer or permit any underage
person to patronize, frequent or loiter in any establishment deriving its
principal business from the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises; or remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or
situated in the room or place where such licensed premises are located.
      (1)   However, this prohibition shall not apply to any underage person
who is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or spouse, or to any licensed
premises which derives its principal business from the sale of service or goods
other than alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   Nor do the prohibitions apply to any underage person who is engaged
in lawful employment to the extent such persons’s presence at the licensed
premises is necessary in connection with said employment and is permitted by
this chapter.
   (D)   No licensee, agent or employees, shall sell, give away, permit to be
sold or served or given away any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person or
to any person known to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane or mentally
ill person, mentally deficient person or person in need of mental treatment.
   (E)   No licensee can sell, give away, permit to be sold or served or given
away for consumption on the licensed premises any distilled spirits except by
the glass, or any malt or vinous beverage except in individual servings not
exceeding 13 fluid ounces.
      (1)   However, this division (E) does not apply to unrestricted
licensees, unrestricted club licensees, unrestricted package goods licensees
and unrestricted service industry licensees.
      (2)   Nor should this division (E) be construed to prohibit a licensee
from selling pitchers, carafes or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are
customarily sold as such and delivered to two or more persons at one time.
   (F)   No person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall sell, give away,
permit to be sold or served or given away for consumption on the licensed
premises any alcoholic liquor from a drive-in window or other similar opening
in the licensed premises to any patron occupying a motor vehicle at the time of
such sale. Nor shall any person licensed pursuant to this chapter provide curb
service sales of alcoholic liquor to any patron occupying a motor vehicle at
the time of such sale upon the premises, a public street or private property.
   (G)   If a licensee, agent or employee believes or has reason to believe
that a sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because the
prospective recipient is underage, said licensee, agent or employee shall,
before making such sale, gift or delivery demand presentation of some form of
positive identification containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in
the performance of his or her official duties.
      (1)   A licensee, his or her agent or employee may refuse to sell, serve,
give or deliver alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce
adequate written evidence of identity and age by production of a document
issued by the federal, state or county government, or subdivision or agency
thereof, including, but not limited to, the following documents:
         (a)   A motor vehicle operator’s license;
         (b)   A registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective
Service Act, being 50 U.S.C. App. §§ 451 et seq.; or
         (c)   An identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces.
      (2)   Proof that the licensee, or his or her employee or agent, demanded,
examined and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any transaction
forbidden by this chapter is competent evidence and may be considered in any
general complaint, suspension or revocation proceedings based thereon.
      (3)   In order to reasonably rely upon written evidence regarding a
patron’s identity and age, a licensee, agent or employee shall use the prudent
judgment of a reasonable and informed person, and shall scrutinize said written
evidence of age and identity by doing the following:
         (a)   Determine if the physical description and photograph (if any) on
the document presented matches that of the presenting person;
         (b)   Determine whether the plastic seal on the identification card is
intact or broken; and
         (c)   In the case of an Illinois driver’s license, determine whether
the seventh and eighth digits in the driver’s license number (excluding the
beginning initial) match the stated date of birth located elsewhere on the
driver’s license.
      (4)   If from the foregoing, a reasonable person would or should doubt
the authenticity of the identification card, then the person offering the
identification must not be sold, served or delivered any alcoholic liquor.
   (H)   The giving away or delivery of any alcoholic liquor for the purpose of
evading any provision of this chapter; or the taking of orders or the making or
agreements regarding the sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor at or within
any premises while the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited; or any other
shift or device to evade any provision of this chapter is prohibited and shall
constitute unlawful selling.
(1993 Code, § 70.33) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Purchase or acceptance of gift of liquor by persons under 21, see 235 ILCS
5/6-20
   Sale to and possession by persons under 21, intoxicated persons, persons
under legal disability or in need of mental treatment, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 70.039 UNDERAGE PERSONS VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No underage person may misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or receiving alcoholic liquor in any premises licensed under this
chapter, or in any manner make any attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No underage person shall at any time have any alcoholic liquor in his
or her possession. However, this does not apply to an underage person who is a
lawfully engaged as an employee of said licensee, to the extent necessary in
connection with such employment.
   (C)   No underage person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification
card, use another person’s identification, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
(1993 Code, § 70.34) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Purchase or acceptance of gift of liquor by persons under 21, see 235 ILCS
5/6-20
   Sales to and possession by person under 21, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 70.040 MISCELLANEOUS ALCOHOL-RELATED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall possess, sell or transfer an altered or defaced
identification card, another person’s identification card, or a false or forged
identification card.
   (B)   No person shall obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   (C)   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other publicly owned or controlled space.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly permit a gathering of two or more persons at
a residence which the person occupies or owns, where one or more of the persons
present are under 21 years of age and one of the following factors also
applies:
      (1)   The owner or occupant of the residence knows that any such person
present who is under the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any
alcoholic beverage, in violation of a provision of state statute or this
chapter; or
      (2)   The owner or occupant of the residence knows that the person under
the age of 21 left the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (E)   No person shall rent a hotel or motel room from the proprietor or
agent thereof for the purpose of or with the knowledge that such room shall be
used for the consumption of alcoholic liquor by persons under the age of 21
years of age.
   (F)   No person shall transport, carry or possess any alcoholic or non-
alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place except where such alcoholic or non-alcoholic liquor is
in the original package with an unbroken seal.
(1993 Code, § 70.35)
Statutory reference:
   Purchase or acceptance of gift of liquor by persons under 21, see 235 ILCS
5/6-20
   Sales to and possession by person under 21, see 235 ILCS 5/6-16
§ 70.041 PROHIBITING SALE AND POSSESSION OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING MEPHEDRONE
AND METHYLENEDIOXYPROVALERONE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MDPV. Includes any material, compound, mixture or preparation containing
any quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the
central nervous system, including their salts, isomers and salt of isomers of
3.4 Methylenedioxprovalerone, Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-methoxymethcathinone, 4-
Fluormathcathinine and 3-Fluoromethcathinone.
      POSSESS. With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively in control, of a substance. A person has
actual possession if he or she has the substance on his or her person or within
easy reach and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual
possession, has the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or
control over the substance either directly or through another person or persons
is in constructive possession of it.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any agent, manager or
employee of any licensee, whether on or off the licensed premises, to possess,
sell, offer to sell, deliver, distribute, gift or publicly display for sale any
substance containing MDPV as defined in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any agent, manager or
employee of any licensee, whether on or off the licensed premises, to possess
by consumption any substance containing MDPV as defined in division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Any violation of division (B) of this section shall constitute grounds
for the imposition of discipline upon the licensee’s liquor license. In
addition, the State’s Attorney is authorized to initiate proceedings in the
Circuit Court for an ordinance violation and/or for injunctive relief for any
such violation.
   (D)   The Sheriff and the license investigator shall cooperate to notify any
licensee offering any substance containing MDPV for sale of the unlawfulness of
said product. The Sheriff shall report any continued sale of said substances to
the State’s Attorney so that the State’s Attorney may seek any necessary
injunctive relief in the Circuit Court to remove said product from sale, offer
for sale, gift or public display.
(Ord. 2011-04, passed 5-18-2011) Penalty, see §
70.999
STANDARDS OF OPERATIONS
§ 70.055 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No persons licensed hereunder as a retailer of alcoholic liquor shall
sell, dispense, furnish or give away any alcoholic liquor between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Mondays through Saturdays, nor between the hours of
3:00 a.m. and noon on Sundays. The time referred to shall be either Central
Standard Time or Daylight Savings Time, whichever is in effect at the time in
this state. The licensee shall be responsible for posting signs indicating the
times when alcoholic liquor may be legally purchased.
   (B)   No licensee shall permit any person to consume any alcoholic liquor on
the premises during the hours specified herein and all customers of the
licensee shall vacate the licensed premises during the hours specified herein.
Provided, however, that on days other than Sunday, patrons of the licensed
premises shall be permitted to remain on the premises until 2:30 a.m. and shall
be permitted to consume any alcoholic liquor they had purchased on the premises
prior to 2:00 a.m.; and further provided that on Sundays, patrons of the
licensed premises shall be permitted to remain on the premises until 3:30 a.m.
and shall be permitted to consume any alcoholic liquor they had purchased on
the premises prior to 3:00 a.m.
   (C)   No person licensed to operate a beer garden shall sell, dispense,
furnish or give away any alcoholic liquor for consumption in the outdoor,
privately owned portion of the licensed premises between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Mondays through Saturdays, nor between the hours of
midnight and noon on Sundays.
   (D)   During the prohibited hours of sale, every premises where alcohol is
sold at retail by the drink or pitcher, for consumption on the premises, must
abide by the following conditions:
      (1)   The premises must be kept closed, and no person other than the
licensee, an immediate family member of the licensee or an employee shall be
permitted to remain therein;
      (2)   All doors directly opening into or out of the premises must be
securely locked during the prohibited hours of sales; and
      (3)   The above prohibitions listed in divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above
apply only to premises where alcohol may be sold by the drink or pitcher, for
consumption on the premises.
(1993 Code, § 70.40) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 94-04, passed 3-16-
1994) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.056 PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS.
   (A)   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for retail sale, shall be kept in clean and sanitary
condition and shall be kept in full compliance with provisions regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
   (B)   Every person licensed hereunder who shall sell any alcoholic liquor
for consumption on the premises of such licensed premises shall keep and
maintain the licensed premises equipped with running hot and cold water, and
adequate sanitary washing facilities for the cleansing of glasses and service
utensils, and shall provide separate and adequate toilet facilities for both
males and females, and shall comply with all health, sanitary and inspection
requirements of this code.
   (C)   All licensees dispensing draught beer shall have coils and other
equipment used in drawing draught beer cleaned at least once every week in some
manner or means, either chemical or mechanical. The use of steam or hot water
alone is not permissible. A record shall be kept of the dates when the cleaning
was done, signed by the person who actually performed the cleaning.
(1993 Code, § 70.41) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.057 EMPLOYMENT OF UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any underage person to draw, pour or mix any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any underage person to sell, serve or deliver
alcoholic liquor in a licensed retail premises, unless all of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The underage person is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   The underage person is a bona fide employee of a retail licensee;
and
      (3)   The licensee, manager, agent or other employee of the licensed
retail premises is present on said premises with the underage person.
(1993 Code, § 70.42) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction over retail selling; minors, see 235 ILCS 5/4-1
§ 70.058 DUTY TO CALL LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee shall refuse to
call and summon law enforcement personnel or shall fail to call or summon law
enforcement personnel when a reasonable request to do so is made by another
person.
   (B)   A licensee, agent, servant or employee shall call and summon law
enforcement personnel whenever any fight, disturbance or any other violation of
the law comes to his or her attention.
(1993 Code, § 70.43) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.059 DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND WARNING SIGNS.
   All persons licensed to sell alcoholic liquor must post, in a conspicuous
place, the following documents:
   (A)   The county certificate of license;
   (B)   A sign which clearly reads:
      “GOVERNMENT WARNING: ACCORDING TO THE SURGEON GENERAL, WOMEN SHOULD NOT
DRINK ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING PREGNANCY BECAUSE OF THE RISK OF BIRTH
DEFECTS.”
   (C)   A sign which clearly reads:
      “WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE: YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE OF
UP TO $500 UNDER THE MADISON COUNTY LIQUOR CODE IF YOU PURCHASE, RECEIVE,
ACCEPT OR ACQUIRE ALCOHOLIC OR NON-ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR IF YOU MISREPRESENT YOUR
AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING, RECEIVING, ACCEPTING OR ACQUIRING ALCOHOLIC
OR NON-ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.”
(1993 Code, § 70.44) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Display of birth defect warning signs, see 235 ILCS 5/6-24a
   Displaying license, see 235 ILCS 5/6-24
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.070 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board shall be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner in the territory of the county outside the corporate limits of any
city, village or incorporated town. This person is charged with the
administration of the appropriate provisions of state law relating to alcoholic
liquor, and the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Commissioner may appoint the five members of the License Committee
of the County Board, the State’s Attorney and the Sheriff to assist him or her
in the exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties set out in this
chapter and by state law. When so appointed, each of these persons shall each
be known as an Assistant Local Liquor Control Commissioner, and may exercise
the same powers as the Commissioner.
(1993 Code, § 70.50) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Local Liquor Control Commissioner, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 70.071 COMMISSIONER’S POWERS.
   The Commissioner shall have the following powers, functions and duties with
respect to licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   To grant and issue liquor licenses to applicants within the limits and
territory of the county, outside the corporate limits of any incorporated city,
village or town, upon the manner provided by this chapter and by state law
relating to alcoholic liquor, and not otherwise;
   (B)   To review any written objections of concerned citizens in opposition
of the granting of the liquor license. The Commissioner may deny an application
for a county liquor license if the issuance of such license would tend to
create a law enforcement problem, result in or add to an undue concentration of
licenses, or have a deleterious impact on the health, safety or welfare of the
community in which the licensed premises is to be located;
   (C)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder, to determine whether any provisions
of state law or any of the provisions of rules or regulations adopted by local
or state commissions are being violated, and at the time to examine the
premises of the licensee in connection therewith;
   (D)   To receive complaints from any citizen within this jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of the laws of this state relating to alcoholic liquor or
the provisions of this chapter or code have been or are being violated, and to
act upon such complaints;
   (E)   To appoint a special investigator to investigate as to compliance with
or violation of the provisions of this chapter by a person selling intoxicating
liquor at retail within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner;
   (F)   To examine or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
license or for the renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation has been served in the manner provided by law;
   (G)   To examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any
applicant or licensee;
   (H)   To hear testimony and take proofs for his or her information in the
performance of his or her duties and for this purpose to issue subpoenas, as
provided by law, which shall be effective in any part of this state, for the
purpose of obtaining any information desired by the Commissioner under this
section;
   (I)   To suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for cause all licenses
issued to persons for premises within the territory of the county outside the
corporate limits of any incorporated city, town or village, for any one or more
of the following reasons:
      (1)   Making by the licensee of any false statement as to a material fact
in any application for license;
      (2)   Failure of a licensee to submit a tax return or filing a fraudulent
tax return;
      (3)   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally determined
to be due and owing;
      (4)   Violation by the licensee of any of the provisions of the Criminal
Code of Illinois;
      (5)   Violation by the licensee, an agent or a servant, of any of the
provisions of the laws of this state in relation to alcoholic liquors or dram
shops;
      (6)   Willful violation by the licensee, an agent or a servant of any
rule or regulation of the Illinois Liquor Control Commission or of the Local
Liquor Control Commission; and/or
      (7)   Violation by the licensee, an agent or a servant of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act, 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq., or a foreign
corporation functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of
authority issued under that Act has violated this Act by selling or offering
for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer’s license;
   (K)   To receive fees for licenses issued hereunder and to pay the same
forthwith to the County Treasurer;
   (L)   To draw his or her order on the Treasurer for the payment by the
Treasurer, out of license fees collected, of all reasonable expenses incurred
by the Commissioner for necessary printing, stationary and postage; and
   (M)   To keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all licenses issued
hereunder and shall furnish the County Clerk, Treasurer and the County Sheriff
each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license or the
revocation of any old license, the Commissioner shall give written notice of
such action to each of these officers within five days of any such action.
(1993 Code, § 70.51) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Powers, functions and duties, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4 through 4-5
§ 70.072 EMERGENCY CLOSING.
   (A)   In all cases where, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the public
peace or the welfare of the community, is likely to be threatened or endangered
by the keeping open of such places where intoxicating liquor is sold at retail
or dispensed, it shall be lawful for the Commissioner, without notice or
hearing, to close such premises upon the issuance of a written order which
shall state the reasons for such closing, commanding and enjoining any or all
persons so licensed by the county and their servants and agents from selling,
giving away or permitting any alcoholic liquors to be imbibed in or about their
premises during the time mentioned in said order.
   (B)   In any event, no such emergency order shall be valid beyond seven
days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period. If
such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business(es) on
the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business(es).
   (C)   The County Sheriff may order, at his or her discretion, a licensed
premises to be closed without hearing for a period of 24 hours, if the premises
constitutes a crime scene, and such closing could prevent the loss or
destruction of evidence and facilitate a police investigation, or if the
premises was the scene of a violent disturbance involving injury or threat to
citizens or the use of firearms. Such closing, and the reasons thereof, will be
documented by the County Sheriff and a report submitted to the Commissioner.
(1993 Code, § 70.52) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Revocation or suspension of local license, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 70.073 VICARIOUS LIABILITY.
   (A)   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such
owner or person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as said licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
   (B)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or
other agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act
of such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable
in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by the
licensee personally.
(1993 Code, § 70.53) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Acts of agent or employee; liability of licensee, see 235 ILCS 5/10-3
   Owner of premises permitting violation, see 235 ILCS 5/10-2
§ 70.074 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following parties shall have the right to file a complaint with
the Commissioner stating that a liquor licensee has been or is violating any
rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission, any state statute
regarding alcoholic liquor, or any provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   The State’s Attorney’s office;
      (2)   The Sheriff’s Department;
      (3)   Any law enforcement official; or
      (4)   Any resident of this county residing within the territory of the
county outside the corporate limits of any incorporated city, town or village.
   (B)   The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the person making the
complaint. The complaint shall state the provisions believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which this belief is based.
   (C)   If the Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that the alleged facts provide reasonable cause for
such belief, then the Commissioner shall set the matter for hearing and shall
serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing, and of
the particular charge(s) in the complaint.
   (D)   A presumption of a violation of the provisions of this chapter is
created where evidence that the licensee has been found guilty of violating any
of the following is presented:
      (1)   A state law in the conduct of a licensed business;
      (2)   A state law upon the premises; or
      (3)   Any provision of this chapter.
   (E)   Prima facie evidence of a violation of the provisions of this chapter
is provided by evidence that any person other than the licensee has been found
guilty of violating any of the following:
      (1)   A state law upon the premises; or
      (2)   Any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Proof of a violation of any provision of this chapter by a clear
preponderance of the evidence shall be sufficient cause for suspension or
revocation of any license issued under this chapter, irrespective of whether or
not a conviction has been obtained in any court.
   (G)   In all prosecutions under this chapter, it shall be sufficient to
state that the act complained of took place in a territory where such sales
were prohibited. It shall not be necessary to state or set forth facts alleging
any of the following:
      (1)   The name(s) of any person to whom alcoholic liquor was sold;
      (2)   The kind of alcoholic liquor sold;
      (3)   A description of the premises where sold; and
      (4)   Knowledge of the principal (licensee) of acts committed by any
agent or employee.
(1993 Code, § 70.54) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Act of agent or employee; liability of licensee, see 235 ILCS 5/10-3
   Owner of premises permitting violation, see 235 ILCS 5/10-2
§ 70.075 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Commissioner may revoke or suspend any liquor license issued by
this county, or fine the licensee, if he or she determines that the licensee
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, any applicable rule or
regulations established by the State Liquor Control Commissioner, any state law
regarding alcoholic liquor or any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Commissioner has reason to believe that any continuing
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises then such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses not involving alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   In situations in which the welfare of the county or its citizens are
not immediately threatened, the Commissioner shall give a licensee three days
written notice at which time hearing will be held to determine whether the
county liquor license should be revoked or suspended. The licensee shall have
the right to appear at the hearing and defend himself or herself.
   (D)   The Commissioner shall conduct said hearing, and the County State’s
Attorney or his or her designee shall be allowed to present evidence against
the licensee.
   (E)   The hearing shall be open to the public, and an official record of the
hearing shall be maintained and preserved either through tape recordings or by
the efforts of a certified shorthand reporter or stenographer. All written
evidence shall be preserved.
   (F)   The Commissioner shall within five days after such hearing, if he or
she determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, state the
reason(s) for such determination, the period of suspension or revocation or the
amount of fine levied in a written order. The licensee shall be served with a
copy of this written order shall be served a copy of such written order within
five days of the issuance of said order.
(1993 Code, § 70.55) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Complaint of violation, see 235 ILCS 5/7-7
   Revocation or suspension of local license, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 70.076 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   When any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall have been
revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the period
of one year thereafter for conducting the business of selling alcoholic liquor
in the premises described in such revoked license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this
chapter for a licensee to continue to operate under its license after said
license has been revoked by the Commissioner.
(1993 Code, § 70.56) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Powers of local commissioners, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
   Revocation or suspension of local license, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
§ 70.077 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   Whenever any order or action of the Commissioner, levying or refusing to
levy a fine on a licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or
suspending or refusing to revoke or suspend a license, or refusing for more
than 30 days to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license
is appealed to the State Commission, the appeal shall be limited to a review of
the official record of the proceedings of the Local Liquor Control Commission.
(1993 Code, § 70.57) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals from order of local commission, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event that the Commissioner finds any licensee or holder of a
retail liquor license or his or her agent or employee, guilty of violating any
provision of this chapter, the Commissioner may order one or more of the
following:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $1,000 per violation, nor more than $10,000
maximum in total fines, against any licensee during the period of the license;
      (2)   Reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the Commissioner;
      (3)   Reasonable hearing costs, including court reporter’s fees incurred
at the hearing;
      (4)   Suspension of the licensee’s liquor license for a period not to
exceed 30 days; and
      (5)   Revocation of the licensee’s liquor license.
   (B)   In the event that the Commissioner finds any underaged person or
patron of a licensed premises guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter, the patron may be fined an amount up to $500 for each violation
charged.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, or any of the
regulations promulgated hereunder, shall be subject to an offense for each and
every day on which such violation continues, and each day that the offense
continues shall be regarded as constituting a separate offense.
   (D)   The aforesaid remedies shall be in addition to all other remedies and
penalties available to the county or to the Commissioner, both at law or in
equity and not in lieu thereof. Any penalties, costs or fees assessed under
this chapter shall be payable upon the order of the Commissioner unless notice
of appeal has been filed by the licensee, in which case payment is stayed until
the final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   The minimum fine for any violation of §
70.041 shall be $500.
(1993 Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 93-09, passed 12-15-1993; Ord. 2011-04, passed 5-18-
2011)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals from order of local commission, see 235 ILCS 5/7-9
   Jurisdiction over retail selling in county boards; minors, see 235 ILCS 5/4-
1
   Powers and duties of the Commissioners, see 235 ILCS 5/3-12
   Powers of local Commissioners, see 235 ILCS 5/4-4
   Revocation or suspension of local license; fine, see 235 ILCS 5/7-5
CHAPTER 71: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
71.01   License required; application; effect of noncompliance
   
71.02   Compliance with standards and regulations
   
71.03   Enforcement
   
71.04   Duties of County Clerk
   
71.05   Length of license
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; EFFECT OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate any establishment,
amusement machine or device engaged in the business of providing entertainment,
recreation or amusement to the public within the limits of the county, but
outside the limits of incorporated cities, villages and towns therein, without
first obtaining a license. Places of entertainment, recreation or amusement
shall include, but are not limited to, arcades, theaters, carnivals and
circuses, motorcycle, horse and auto races, rodeos, bowling alleys, pool halls,
riding stables, dance halls, golf driving ranges and golf courses (regular or
miniature), swimming pools, fishing resorts, skating arenas, baseball parks,
skeet shooting ranges and turkey shoots and any other similar places of
amusement, and shall also include restaurants and taverns and other places
containing coin-operated mechanical devices for the providing of music and
recreation.
   (B)   The applicant or owner shall complete an application for license on a
form furnished by the County Clerk.
   (C)   In the event any person, firm or corporation operating any amusement
as set out in division (A) above fails to obtain a license, the owner of the
premises, coin-operated amusement devices or other amusement machines shall be
liable for obtaining a license and shall also be subject to the criminal charge
set out in §
71.99.
(1993 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968; Ord. 82-7, passed 11-17-1982;
Ord. 83-5, passed 11-16-1983) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   All places hereinabove described shall comply with all state and local
health and sanitary standards and with the local and state fire code
regulations.
(1993 Code, § 71.02) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968; Ord. 82-7, passed 11-17-1982;
Ord. 83-5, passed 11-16-1983) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Investigation and License Committee of the County Board is charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 71.03) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968; Ord. 82-7, passed 11-17-1982;
Ord. 83-5, passed 11-16-1983)
§ 71.04 DUTIES OF COUNTY CLERK.
   The County Clerk is authorized and empowered to issue the annual licenses
provided for herein, under his or her signature and seal, to eligible
applicants as determined by the Investigation and License Committee. The
issuance of the licenses by the Clerk shall be under the direction of the
Committee. No license issued by the Clerk shall be transferable.
(1993 Code, § 71.04) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968; Ord. 82-7, passed 11-17-1982;
Ord. 83-5, passed 11-16-1983)
§ 71.05 LENGTH OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be for a period of a calendar year
from January 1 to December 31 (both days included). The Investigation and
License Committee of the County Board is hereby authorized and empowered to
direct the issuance of the license for less than one year. The fee for six
months or less shall be one-half the fee the establishment would have to pay
for one full year.
(1993 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968; Ord. 82-7, passed 11-17-1982;
Ord. 83-5, passed 11-16-1983)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   The conduct of an establishment such as described in this chapter and
required to be licensed thereunder, without first obtaining the licenses as
therein provided, shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not less than $50
nor more than $500, in accordance with applicable state law.
(1993 Code, § 71.99) (Ord. 83-5, passed 11-16-1983)
CHAPTER 72: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Title of chapter
   
72.002   Purpose of chapter
   
72.003   Existing franchise and agreements
   
72.004   Definitions; word usage
   
72.005   Compliance with laws
   
72.006   Captions
   
72.007   No recourse against county
   
72.008   Rights and remedies
   
72.009   Incorporation by reference
   
72.010   Force majeure
   
72.011   Public emergency
   
72.012   Connections to system; use of antennas
   
72.013   Calculation of time
Grant of Franchise
   
72.025   Grant of franchise
   
72.026   Franchise required
   
72.027   Length of franchise
   
72.028   Franchise characteristics
   
72.029   Franchisee subject to other laws, police power
   
72.030   Interpretation of franchise terms
   
72.031   Operation of a cable system without a franchise
   
72.032   Acts at franchisee’s expense
   
72.033   Eminent domain
   
72.034   Exclusive contracts and anticompetitive acts prohibited
Applications for Grant, Renewal, Modification or Transfer of Franchise
   
72.045   Written application
   
72.046   Application for grant of a franchise, other than a Cable Act renewal
franchise
   
72.047   Application for grant of a Cable Act franchise renewal
   
72.048   Contents of franchise and renewal applications
   
72.049   Application for modification of a franchise
   
72.050   Franchise transfers
   
72.051   Filing fees and deposits
   
72.052   Public proceedings
   
72.053   Intergovernmental cooperation
Construction Provisions
   
72.065   System construction schedule
   
72.066   Construction procedures
   
72.067   Construction standards
   
72.068   Area served
   
72.069   Line extension requirements
   
72.070   System tests and inspections
   
72.071   Use of public property
   
72.072   Interference with public projects
   
72.073   Publicizing proposed construction work
   
72.074   System maintenance
   
72.075   Continuity of service
System Facilities, Equipment and Services
   
72.090   Compliance with franchise agreement
   
72.091   Full service to municipal buildings
   
72.092   Cable channels for commercial use, local commercial television signals
and noncommercial educational television
   
72.093   Technical standards
   
72.094   Interconnection
   
72.095   Integration of advancements in technology
   
72.096   System design review process
   
72.097   Emergency alert system
Operation and Reporting Provisions
   
72.110   Open books and records
   
72.111   Communication with regulatory agencies
   
72.112   Reports
   
72.113   Records required
   
72.114   Performance evaluation
   
72.115   Voluminous materials
   
72.116   Retention of records; relation to privacy rights
Consumer Service and Privacy Protection Law
   
72.130   Adoption
   
72.131   Enforcement
   
72.132   Penalties
   
72.133   Customer credits
Rate Regulation
   
72.145   Service and equipment rates
Cable Video Service Fee
   
72.160   Cable/video service fee
   
72.161   Applicable principles
   
72.162   No impact on other taxes due from holder
   
72.163   Audits of cable/video service provider
   
72.164   Late payments
Insurance; Surety; Indemnification
   
72.175   Insurance required
   
72.176   Qualifications of sureties
   
72.177   Policies available for review
   
72.178   Additional insureds; prior notice of policy cancellation
   
72.179   Failure constitutes material violation
   
72.180   Indemnification
Performance Guarantees and Remedies
   
72.195   Security fund
   
72.196   Performance bond
   
72.197   Failure constitutes material violation
   
72.198   Remedies
   
72.199   Shortening, revocation or termination of franchise
   
72.200   Remedies cumulative
   
72.201   Relation to insurance and indemnity requirements
Rights of Individuals Protected
   
72.215   Discriminatory practices prohibited
   
72.216   Equal employment opportunity
   
72.217   Subscriber privacy
 
   
72.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Glossary of terms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 TITLE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Cable Communications
Regulatory Code.”
(1993 Code, § 72.001) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-
20-2013)
§ 72.002 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The county finds that further development of cable systems has the
potential to be of great benefit to the county and its residents and
businesses. Cable technology is rapidly changing, and cable plays an essential
role as part of the county’s basic infrastructure. Cable systems extensively
make use of scarce and valuable public rights-of-way, in a manner different
from the way in which the general public uses them, and in a manner reserved
primarily for those who provide services to the public, such as utility
companies. A cable company currently typically faces very limited competition;
thus, the grant of a franchise has the effect of giving the holder extensive
economic benefits and places the holder in a position of public trust. Because
of these facts, the county finds that public convenience, safety and general
welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers vested in the
county or such persons as the county so designates to protect the public and to
ensure that any franchise granted is operated in the public interest. In light
of the foregoing, the following goals, among others, underlie the provisions
set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Cable service should be available to as many county residents and
businesses as possible and provide the widest possible diversity of information
sources and services to the public.
      (2)   A cable system should be capable of accommodating both present and
reasonably foreseeable future cable-related needs of the community.
      (3)   A cable system should be constructed and maintained during a
franchise term so that changes in technology may be integrated to the maximum
extent possible into existing system facilities, taking into account all
relevant factors including costs.
      (4)   A cable system should grow and develop and be responsive to the
needs and interests of the community.
   (B)   The county intends that all provisions set forth in this chapter be
construed to serve the public interest and the foregoing public purposes, and
that any franchise issued pursuant to this chapter be construed to include the
foregoing findings and public purposes as integral parts thereof.
(1993 Code, § 72.002) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.003 EXISTING FRANCHISE AND AGREEMENTS.
   To the extent permitted by law, this chapter shall apply to franchises and
other agreements in effect at the time of adoption of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.003) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.004 DEFINITIONS; WORD USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CABLE ACT. Title 47 of the United States Code, Chapter 5, Subchapter V-A,
47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as amended from time to time.
      CABLE SERVICE. The term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
      COMMISSION. The Illinois Commerce Commission.
      COUNTY. The County of Madison, Illinois, and its agencies, departments,
agents and employees acting within their respective areas of authority.
      COUNTY BOARD or BOARD. The governing body of the county.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission, its designee or any successor
governmental entity thereto.
      FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the county and a franchisee that sets forth,
subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will
be exercised.
      FRANCHISE AREA. The area of the county that a franchisee is authorized to
serve by its franchise agreement.
      FRANCHISE TRANSFER.
         (a)   Any transaction in which:
            1.   Any ownership or other right, title or interest of more than
10% in a franchisee or its cable system is transferred, sold, assigned, leased,
sublet, mortgaged or otherwise disposed of or encumbered directly or
indirectly, voluntarily or by foreclosure or other involuntary means, in whole
or in part;
            2.   There is any change in or substitution of, or acquisition or
transfer of control of, the franchisee or any person which has more than a 10%
interest in a franchisee or has responsibility for or control over a
franchisee’s operations or over the system; or
            3.   The rights or obligations held by the franchisee under the
franchise are transferred, directly or indirectly, to another person.
         (b)   CONTROL means the legal or practical ability to direct the
affairs of another person, either directly or indirectly, whether by
contractual agreement, majority ownership interest, any lesser ownership
interest or in any other manner.
         (c)   A rebuttable presumption that a change, acquisition or transfer
of control has occurred shall arise upon the acquisition or accumulation of a
10% or larger ownership interest by any person or group of persons acting in
concert, none of whom already have more than a 50% ownership interest, alone or
collectively.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, FRANCHISE TRANSFER does not
include:
            1.   Disposition or replacement of worn out or obsolete equipment,
property or facilities in the normal course of operating a cable system,
including the renewal or extension of equipment or property leases and
contracts;
            2.   Acquisition, transfer, sale or other disposition of leases,
licenses, easements and other interests in real property in the normal course
of operating a cable system and not involving the relinquishment of any right
or power affecting the franchisee’s ability to provide services in whole or in
part; or
            3.   Pledge or mortgage of a franchisee’s assets to a financial
institution in return for sums necessary to construct or operate (or both) the
cable system, provided that such pledge or mortgage and related agreements
obligate and limit such financial institution as follows: any foreclosure or
exercise of lien over the franchise or facilities shall only be by assumption
of control over the entire cable system; prior to assumption of control, the
institution shall notify the county that it or a designee acceptable to the
county will take control of and operate the system, and shall submit a plan for
such operation ensuring continued service and compliance with this chapter, and
all franchise obligations during the term the institution exercises such
control; and the institution shall not exercise control for longer than one
year unless extended by the county for good cause and shall prior to the
expiration of such period (as extended) obtain the county’s approval of a
franchise transfer for the remaining term of the franchise or award of a new
franchise to another qualified person pursuant to this chapter.
      FRANCHISEE. A person that has been granted a franchise by the county in
accordance with this chapter.
      GROSS REVENUES. All consideration of any kind or nature, including,
without limitation, cash, credits, property and in-kind contributions received
by the holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable
service or video service within the holder’s cable service or video service
area within the county.
         (a)   GROSS REVENUES shall include the following:
            1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service;
            2.   Event-based charges for cable service or video service,
including, but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
            3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video
service equipment;
            4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation and
repair charges;
            5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable
service or video service, including, but not limited to, service order and
service termination charges;
            6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments;
            7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service within the
county. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
county divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement;
            8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder’s network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder’s network,
such as a “home shopping” or similar channel, subject to division (a)9. below;
            9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is
bundled or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities or
applications, the portion of the holder’s revenue attributable to the other
services, capabilities or applications shall be included in the gross revenue
unless the holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the
revenue from its books and records that are kept in the regular course of
business; and
            10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b).
         (b)   GROSS REVENUES do not include any of the following:
            1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad
debt, subject to 220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
            2.   Refunds, discounts or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state-issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service;
            3.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or non-video service in accordance with the holder’s books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards or orders;
            4.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in
which the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser’s subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the County and pay the fee permitted by 220
ILCS 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
            5.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal or any other
governmental entity, collected by the holder of the state-issued authorization,
and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use
taxes;
            6.   Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
            7.   Amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
         (c)   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of GROSS REVENUES to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 ILCS 5/21-801(b) which would otherwise be
paid by the cable service or video service.
      HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the Commission pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-
401.
      NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
      NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions that are within the
control of a franchisee. Conditions that are not within the control of a
franchisee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages in excess of two hours in length, telephone network
outages and severe or unusual weather conditions. Conditions that are within
the control of a franchisee include, but are not limited to, special
promotions, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods,
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system, and power outages of two hours or
less in length.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, limited liability corporation or
partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, organization, corporation
or other entity, or any lawful successor thereto or transferee thereof, but
such term does not include the county.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The surface, the air space above the surface and
the area below the surface of any public street, right-of-way, highway, lane,
path, alley, way for public service facilities, sidewalk, boulevard, drive,
bridge, tunnel, park, parkway, waterway, easement, playgrounds, school grounds
or similar property in which the county now or hereafter holds any property
interest, which, consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may
be used for the purpose of installing and maintaining a cable system. No
reference herein, or in any franchise agreement, to a PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall
be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by the county that its interest
or other right to control the use of such property is sufficient to permit its
use for such purposes, and a franchisee shall be deemed to gain only those
rights to use as are properly in the county and as the county may have the
undisputed right and power to give.
      RFP. Request for proposal.
      SALE. Any sale, exchange or barter transaction.
      SERVICE. The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers
and the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the Commission
pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
      SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
      SERVICE PROVIDER FEE. The amount paid under this chapter and 220 ILCS 5/
21-801 by the holder to a county for the service areas within its territorial
jurisdiction.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person who legally receives any cable service delivered
over a cable system and the county in its capacity as a recipient of such
service.
      USER. A person utilizing part or all of a cable system for purposes of
producing or transmitting video programming or other programming services as
contrasted with the receipt thereof in the capacity of a subscriber.
      VIDEO SERVICE. Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that
is required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and
which is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the
public right-of-way without regard to delivery technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332(d)
or any video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail or other services
offered over the public internet.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense and vice versa, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and vice versa, and the masculine gender includes
the feminine gender and vice versa. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory,
and “may” is permissive. Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly contrary
to the context, terms, phrases, words and abbreviations not defined herein
shall be given the meaning set forth in Title 47 of the United States Code,
Chapter 5, Subchapter V-A, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., as amended, and
regulations issued pursuant thereto, and, if not defined therein, their common
and ordinary meaning. For convenience, federal and state definitions are set
forth in Appendix A to this chapter, which glossary may be revised by the
County Attorney to reflect subsequent changes in federal law without the need
for an amendment of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.004) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-
20-2013)
§ 72.005 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   Each franchisee shall comply with all federal and state laws, as well as
local ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations heretofore and hereafter
adopted or established during the entire term of its franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.005) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.006 CAPTIONS.
   The captions to sections throughout this chapter are intended solely to
facilitate reading and reference to the sections and provisions of this
chapter. Such captions shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this
chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.006) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.007 NO RECOURSE AGAINST COUNTY.
   Without limiting such immunities as the county or other persons may have
under applicable law, including, but not limited to, 47 U.S.C. § 555a, a
franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the county or its
officials, members, boards, commissions, agents or employees for any loss,
costs, expense, liability or damage arising out of any action undertaken or not
undertaken pursuant to a franchise agreement or any provision or requirement of
this chapter or because of the enforcement of this chapter or the county’s
exercise of its authority pursuant to this chapter, a franchise agreement or
other applicable law, unless such recourse is expressly authorized by statute,
this chapter or other ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 72.007) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.008 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The rights and remedies reserved to the county by this chapter are
cumulative and shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other
rights and remedies which the county may have with respect to the subject
matter of this chapter.
   (B)   The county hereby reserves to itself the right to intervene in any
suit, action or proceeding involving any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Specific mention of the materiality of any of the provisions herein is
not intended to be exclusive of any others for the purpose of determining
whether any failure of compliance hereunder is material and substantial.
   (D)   No franchisee shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter by reason of any failure of the county to
enforce prompt compliance. Nor shall any inaction by the county be deemed to
waive a provision or render void any provision of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.008) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.009 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall by implication include
a provision which shall incorporate by reference this chapter into such
franchise as fully as if copied therein verbatim.
(1993 Code, § 72.009) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.010 FORCE MAJEURE.
   A franchisee shall not be deemed in default of provisions of its franchise
where performance was hindered by war or riots, civil disturbances, floods or
other natural catastrophes beyond the franchisee’s control, and a franchise
shall not be revoked or a franchisee penalized for such noncompliance, provided
that the franchisee takes prompt and diligent steps to bring itself back into
compliance and to comply as soon as reasonably possible under the circumstances
with its franchise without unduly endangering the health, safety and integrity
of the franchisee’s employees or property, or the health, safety and integrity
of the public, public rights-of-way, public property or private property.
(1993 Code, § 72.010) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.011 PUBLIC EMERGENCY.
   In the event of a public emergency or disaster as determined by the county,
acting through such officials as may be available given the emergency
conditions, a franchisee immediately shall make the cable system, employees and
property, as may be reasonably necessary, available for use by the county or
other civil defense or governmental agency designated by the county for the
term of such emergency or disaster for emergency purposes. In the event of such
use, a franchisee shall waive any claim that such use by the county constitutes
a use of eminent domain, provided that the county shall return use of the
system, employees and property to the franchisee promptly after the emergency
or disaster has ended.
(1993 Code, § 72.011) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.012 CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM; USE OF ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Subscribers shall have the right to attach devices to a franchisee’s
system to allow them to transmit signals or services for which they have paid
to VCRs, receivers and other terminal equipment. Subscribers also shall have
the right to use their own remote control devices and converters, inside wire
and other similar equipment, subject to market availability, and a franchisee
shall provide information to subscribers which will allow them to adjust such
devices so that they may be used with the franchisee’s system.
   (B)   A franchisee shall not, as a condition of providing service, require a
subscriber or potential subscriber to remove any existing antenna, or
disconnect an antenna except at the express direction of the subscriber or
potential subscriber, or prohibit or discourage a subscriber from installing an
antenna switch, provided that such equipment and installations are consistent
with applicable codes.
   (C)   Regardless of changes in technology and equipment, channels,
facilities and equipment for public, educational and governmental use will
remain accessible to subscribers and users.
(1993 Code, § 72.012) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.013 CALCULATION OF TIME.
   Unless otherwise indicated, when the performance or doing of any act, duty,
matter or payment is required under this chapter or any franchise agreement,
and a period of time is prescribed and is fixed herein, the time shall be
computed so as to exclude the day of the act, event or default after which the
designated period of time begins to run and include the last day of the
prescribed or fixed period of time, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, in which event the period runs until the next day which is neither a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. If the period is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. This section shall not apply in the context of obligations which
continue on a daily basis, such as the obligation to operate a cable system.
(1993 Code, § 72.013) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
GRANT OF FRANCHISE
§ 72.025 GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   Except where a state issued authorization to a cable and video provider, in
accordance with 220 ILCS 5/, a franchise authorization is required; no use of
public rights-of-way for installation or construction of cable or video service
without obtaining first a state-issued authorization or local franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.020) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-
20-2013)
§ 72.026 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may construct, operate or maintain a cable system or provide
cable service over a cable system within the county and outside of a
municipality without a franchise granted by the county authorizing such
activity. No person may be granted a franchise without having entered into a
franchise agreement with the county pursuant to this chapter. For the purpose
of this provision, the operation of part or all of a cable system within the
county and outside of a municipality means the use or occupancy by facilities
of public rights-of-way within the county and outside of a municipality whether
or not any subscriber within the county and outside of a municipality is
served. A system shall be deemed as using or occupying public rights-of-way
even though such use or occupancy is solely by reason of use of distribution
facilities furnished by a telephone or other company pursuant to tariff or
contract. A system shall not be deemed as operating within the county and
outside of a municipality even though service is offered or rendered to one or
more subscribers within the county and outside of a municipality, if no public
right-of-way is used or occupied. The location within the county and outside of
a municipality of a microwave or similar relay, interconnection or program
origination facility not involving the use or occupancy of public rights-of-way
shall not be deemed operation within the county and outside of a municipality.
In all respects, franchise agreements shall be issued so as to provide equal
protection under the law and to prevent unlawful disparate treatment of persons
which operate or construct cable systems or provide cable services over a cable
system, including as required by 55 ILCS 5/5-1095.
   (B)   To the extent a common carrier (or any other person) is providing
video programming to subscribers using radio communications, such common
carrier (or other person) must obtain a franchise as required pursuant to this
chapter but shall not be subject to requirements imposed by the Cable Act
through this chapter. To the extent a common carrier is providing transmission
of video programming on a common carrier basis, such common carrier must obtain
a franchise as required pursuant to this chapter but shall not be subject to
requirements imposed by the Cable Act through this chapter (but this section
shall not affect the treatment of a facility of a common carrier as a cable
system). To the extent a common carrier (or any other person) is providing
video programming by means of an open video system pursuant to certification
approved by the FCC, such common carrier (or other person) need not obtain a
franchise pursuant to this chapter but shall be subject to requirements imposed
by the Cable Act through this chapter as permitted by federal law, and shall
pay to the city fees on gross revenues for the provision of cable service equal
to and in lieu of the franchise fee imposed hereunder on cable operators in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. To the extent that a common
carrier is providing video programming to its subscribers in a manner other
than that described above in this division (B), such common carrier must obtain
a franchise as required pursuant to this chapter and shall be subject to
requirements imposed by the Cable Act through this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.021) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.027 LENGTH OF FRANCHISE.
   No franchise shall initially be granted for a period of more than 20 years
or less than four years, except that a franchisee may apply for renewal or
extension pursuant to this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.022) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.028 FRANCHISE CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   A franchise authorizes use of public rights-of-way for installing,
operating and maintaining cables, wires, lines, optical fiber, underground
conduit and other devices necessary and appurtenant to the operation of a cable
system to provide cable services within a franchise area, but does not
expressly or implicitly authorize a franchisee to provide service to, or
install a cable system on private property without owner consent through
eminent domain or otherwise (except for use of compatible easements pursuant to
and consistent with § 621 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 541(a)(2)), or to use
publicly or privately owned poles, ducts or conduits without a separate
agreement with the owners.
   (B)   A franchise shall not mean or include any franchise, license or permit
for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the county
and outside of a municipality as generally required by the ordinances and laws
of the county other than this Cable Communications Regulatory Code, or for
attaching devices to poles or other structures, whether owned by the county or
other person, or for excavating or performing other work in or along public
rights-of-way. A franchise shall not confer any authority to provide
telecommunications services or any other communications services besides cable
services. A franchise shall not confer any implicit rights other than those
mandated by federal, state or local law.
   (C)   A franchise is non-exclusive and will not explicitly or implicitly:
preclude the issuance of other franchises to operate cable systems within the
county and outside a municipality; affect the county’s right to authorize use
of public rights-of-way by other persons to operate cable systems or for other
purposes as it determines appropriate; or affect the county’s right to itself
construct, operate or maintain a cable system, with or without a franchise;
provided, however, that in considering whether to grant a franchise in addition
to an existing franchise, the county shall comply with state law, including 55
ILCS 5/5-1095.
   (D)   Once a franchise agreement has been accepted and executed by the
county and a franchisee, such franchise agreement shall constitute a valid and
enforceable contract between the franchisee and the county, and the terms,
conditions and provisions of such franchise agreement, subject to this chapter
and all other duly enacted and applicable laws, shall define the rights and
obligations of the franchisee and the county relating to the franchise.
   (E)   All privileges prescribed by a franchise shall be subordinate to any
prior lawful occupancy of the public rights-of-way, and the county reserves the
right to reasonably designate where a franchisee’s facilities are to be placed
within the public rights-of-way through its generally applicable permit
procedures without materially adding to the obligations of the franchisee.
   (F)   A franchise shall be a privilege that is in the public trust and
personal to the original franchisee. No franchise transfer shall occur without
the prior written consent of the county upon application made by the franchisee
pursuant to this chapter and the franchise agreement, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld, and any purported franchise transfer made without
application and prior written consent shall be void and shall be cause for the
county to revoke the franchise agreement.
(1993 Code, § 72.023) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.029 FRANCHISEE SUBJECT TO OTHER LAWS, POLICE POWER.
   (A)   A franchisee shall at all times be subject to and shall comply with
all applicable federal, state and local laws, including this chapter. A
franchisee shall at all times be subject to all lawful exercise of the police
power of the county, including, but not limited to, all rights the county may
have under 47 U.S.C. § 552, all powers regarding zoning, supervision of
construction, assurance of equal employment opportunities, control of public
rights-of-way and consumer protection.
   (B)   No course of dealing between a franchisee and the county, or any delay
on the part of the county in exercising any rights hereunder, shall operate as
a waiver of any such rights of the county or acquiescence in the actions of a
franchisee in contravention of such rights except to the extent expressly
waived in writing or expressly provided for in a franchise agreement.
   (C)   The county shall have full authority to regulate cable systems,
franchisees and franchises as may now or hereafter be lawfully permissible.
Except where rights are expressly waived by a franchise agreement, they are
reserved, whether or not expressly enumerated.
(1993 Code, § 72.024) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.030 INTERPRETATION OF FRANCHISE TERMS.
   (A)   In the event of a conflict between this chapter and a franchise
agreement, the provisions of the franchise agreement control except where the
conflict arises from the lawful exercise of the county’s police power.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter and a franchise agreement will be
liberally construed in accordance with generally accepted rules of contract
construction and to promote the public interest.
(1993 Code, § 72.025) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.031 OPERATION OF A CABLE SYSTEM WITHOUT A FRANCHISE.
   Any person who occupies public rights-of-way for the purpose of operating or
constructing a cable system or provides cable service over a cable system and
who does not hold a valid franchise from the county shall be subject to all
requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to, its provisions
regarding construction and technical standards and franchise fees. In its
discretion, the county at any time may by ordinance: require such person to
enter into a franchise agreement within 30 days of receipt of a written notice
to such person from the county that a franchise agreement is required; require
such person to remove its property and restore the affected area to a condition
satisfactory to the county within such time period; grant a revocable permit to
operate for a period not to exceed two years provided such period begins on the
expiration date of a franchise previously issued to such person; direct
municipal personnel to remove the property and restore the affected area to a
condition satisfactory to the county and charge the person the costs therefor,
including by placing a lien on the person’s property as provided in connection
with abating nuisances; or take any other action it is entitled to take under
applicable law. In no event shall a franchise be created unless it is issued by
ordinance of the county pursuant to this chapter and subject to a written
franchise agreement.
(1993 Code, § 72.026) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.032 ACTS AT FRANCHISEE’S EXPENSE.
   Any act that a franchisee is or may be required to perform under this
chapter, a franchise agreement or applicable law shall be performed at the
franchisee’s expense, without reimbursement by the county, unless expressly
provided to the contrary in this chapter, the franchise agreement or applicable
law.
(1993 Code, § 72.027) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.033 EMINENT DOMAIN.
   Nothing herein shall be deemed or construed to impair or affect, in any way
or to any extent, the county’s power of eminent domain. The county may exercise
its right of eminent domain on behalf of a franchisee consistent with 55 ILCS
5/5-1095.
(1993 Code, § 72.028) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.034 EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS AND ANTICOMPETITIVE ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No franchisee or other multichannel video programming distributor
shall enter into or enforce an exclusive contract for the provision of cable
service or other multichannel video programming with any person, or demand the
exclusive right to serve a person or location, as a condition of extending
service to that or any other person or location.
   (B)   No franchisee or other multichannel video programming distributor
shall engage in acts that have the purpose or effect of limiting competition
for the provision of cable service or services similar to cable service in the
county and outside of a municipality, except for such actions as are expressly
authorized by law.
   (C)   Property owners, condominium associations, managing agents, lessees
and other persons in possession or control of any residential building within a
franchise area shall comply with 55 ILCS 5/5-1096.
(1993 Code, § 72.029) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
APPLICATIONS FOR GRANT, RENEWAL, MODIFICATION OR TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE
§ 72.045 WRITTEN APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application shall be filed with the County Clerk for: grant
of an initial franchise; renewal of a franchise under 47 U.S.C. § 546(a)
through (g) or § 546(h); modification of a franchise agreement; or franchise
transfer. An applicant shall demonstrate in its application compliance with all
requirements of this chapter and all applicable laws.
   (B)   To be acceptable for filing, a signed original of the application
shall be submitted together with ten copies. The application must be
accompanied by the required filing fees, conform to any applicable request for
proposals and contain all required information. All applications shall include
the names, addresses and telephone numbers of persons authorized to act on
behalf of the applicant with respect to the application.
   (C)   All filed applications shall be made available by the County Clerk for
public inspection. Each filed application shall be reviewed promptly by the
county for completeness.
(1993 Code, § 72.040) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.046 APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF A FRANCHISE, OTHER THAN A CABLE ACT RENEWAL
FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a franchise other than a Cable Act
renewal franchise, the County Board may commence a proceeding to identify the
future cable-related needs and interests of the community. Upon completion of
that proceeding, or after receipt of the application if no such proceeding is
commenced, the County Board shall either evaluate the application or issue an
RFP, which shall be mailed to the applicant and made reasonably available to
any other interested person. The procedures, instructions and requirements set
forth in an RFP shall be followed by each applicant as if set forth and
required herein. The county may seek additional information from any applicant
and establish deadlines for the submission of such information. If the county
issues an RFP, it shall evaluate all timely responses.
   (B)   In evaluating an application for a franchise including a response to
an RFP, the county shall consider, among other things, the following factors:
      (1)   The extent to which the applicant substantially complied with the
applicable law and the material terms of any franchises in other communities;
      (2)   Whether the quality of the applicant’s service under any franchises
in other communities, including signal quality, response to customer
complaints, billing practices and the like, was reasonable in light of the
needs and interests of the communities served;
      (3)   Whether there is adequate assurance that the applicant has the
financial, technical and legal qualifications to provide cable service in the
county and outside of a municipality;
      (4)   Whether the application satisfies any minimum requirements
established by the county and is otherwise reasonably likely to meet the future
cable-related needs and interests of the community, taking into account the
cost of meeting such needs and interests;
      (5)   Whether there is adequate assurance the applicant will provide
suitable public, educational and governmental access facilities;
      (6)   Whether issuance of a franchise is warranted and in the public
interest considering the immediate and future effect on the public rights-of-
way that would be used by the cable system, including the extent to which
installation or maintenance as planned would require replacement of property or
involve disruption of property, public services or use of the public rights-of-
way; and
      (7)   Whether the applicant or an affiliate of the applicant owns or
controls any other cable system in the county and outside of a municipality, or
whether grant of the application may eliminate or reduce competition in the
delivery of cable service in the county and outside of a municipality.
   (C)   If the County Board finds that it is in the public interest to issue a
franchise considering the factors set forth above, the county shall prepare a
final written franchise agreement under this chapter that incorporates, as
appropriate, the commitments made by the applicant and establish a deadline for
the applicant to sign it and submit it for approval. If the applicant signs the
franchise agreement and timely submits it for approval, the county shall issue
a franchise by ordinance adopted no less than 30 days after the filing of the
original application.
   (D)   If the County Board denies a franchise, it will issue a written
decision explaining why the franchise was denied.
   (E)   Prior to deciding whether or not to issue a franchise, the County
Board shall hold a public hearing; however, the county may reject without
hearing any application that is incomplete or fails to respond fully to an RFP.
   (F)   This chapter is not intended and shall not be interpreted to grant
standing to challenge the issuance of a franchise to another person, or to
limit such standing.
   (G)   If an application seeks authority for a franchise in addition to an
existing franchise, the county shall comply with state law, including 55 ILCS
5/5-1095.
(1993 Code, § 72.041) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.047 APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF A CABLE ACT FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Applications for franchise renewal under the Cable Act shall be received and
reviewed in a manner consistent with § 626 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 546.
If neither a franchisee nor the county activates in a timely manner, or can
activate, the renewal process set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 546(a) through (g)
(including, for example, if the provisions are repealed), and except as to
applications submitted pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 546(h), the provisions of §
72.048 shall apply and a renewal request shall be evaluated using the same
criteria as any other request for a franchise. The following requirements shall
apply to renewal requests properly submitted pursuant to the Cable Act.
   (A)   (1)   If the provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 546(a) through (g) are properly
invoked, the County Board shall, in accordance with the time limits of the
Cable Act, commence and complete a proceeding to review the applicant’s
performance under the franchise during the then current franchise term and to
identify future cable-related community needs and interests. Upon completion of
the proceeding, the County Board may issue a RFP. The County Board, or its
designee, shall establish deadlines and procedures for responding to the RFP,
may seek additional information from the applicant, and shall establish
deadlines for the submission of such additional information. Alternatively, an
applicant can submit a proposal for renewal on its own initiative.
      (2)   Following receipt of renewal proposals (and such additional
information as may be provided in response to requests), the County Board will
provide prompt public notice of such proposals and thereafter either determine
that the franchise should be renewed or make a preliminary assessment that the
franchise should not be renewed. This determination shall be made in accordance
with the time limits established by the Cable Act, including sufficient time to
comply with the following procedures.
      (3)   If the County Board preliminarily determines that the franchise
should not be renewed, which determination can be made by resolution, and the
applicant that submitted the renewal proposal notifies the County Clerk in
writing within 20 days after receipt of the preliminary determination that it
wishes to pursue any rights to an administrative proceeding it has under the
Cable Act, then, if required, the County Board shall commence an administrative
proceeding after providing prompt public notice thereof, in accordance with the
Cable Act. The county may also commence such a proceeding on its own initiative
if it so chooses.
      (4)   If the County Board decides to grant renewal, which decision shall
be made by resolution, the county shall prepare a final written franchise
agreement that incorporates, as appropriate, the commitments made by the
applicant in the renewal proposal and establish a deadline for the applicant to
sign it and submit it for approval. If the applicant signs the franchise
agreement and timely submits it for approval, the county shall issue a
franchise by ordinance. If the franchise agreement is not so accepted and
approved within the time limits established by 47 U.S.C. § 546(c)(1) and the
county, renewal shall thereupon be deemed preliminarily denied, and if the
applicant notifies the County Clerk in writing within 20 days after the
expiration of the time limit established by 47 U.S.C. § 546(c)(1) that it
wishes to pursue any rights to an administrative proceeding it has under the
Cable Act, then, if required, the County Board shall commence an administrative
proceeding after providing prompt public notice thereof, in accordance with the
Cable Act. The county may also commence such a proceeding on its own initiative
if it so chooses.
   (B)   If an administrative proceeding is commenced pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §
546(c), the applicant’s renewal proposal shall be evaluated considering such
matters as may be considered consistent with federal law. The following
procedures shall apply:
      (1)   The County Board shall, by resolution, appoint an administrative
Hearing Officer or Officers (referred to hereafter as Hearing Officer). The
County Board may appoint itself or one or more of its members as Hearing
Officer or any other qualified person.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall establish a schedule for proceeding which
allows for written discovery (requests for admissions, production of documents
and interrogatory responses), production of evidence, and subpoenaing and
cross-examination of witnesses. Depositions shall not be permitted unless the
party requesting the deposition shows that written discovery and hearing
subpoena will not provide it an adequate opportunity to require the production
of evidence necessary to present its case. The Hearing Officer shall have the
authority to require the production of evidence as the interests of justice may
require, including to require the production of evidence by the applicant that
submitted the renewal proposal and any affiliate of such applicant. The Hearing
Officer shall not prohibit discovery on the ground that evidence sought is
proprietary or involves business secrets, but rather shall issue protective
orders which allow reasonable and necessary discovery without making such
information available to competitors. Any order of the Hearing Officer may be
enforced by imposing appropriate sanctions in the administrative hearing or by
action of the County Board.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer may conduct a prehearing conference and
establish appropriate prehearing orders. The county and the applicant shall be
the only parties. The county may have special counsel to represent its
interests at the hearing so that the County Attorney may advise the County
Board as it makes its decision.
      (4)   The Hearing Officer may require the county and the applicant to
submit prepared written testimony prior to the hearing. Unless the parties
agree otherwise, the applicant shall present evidence first, the county shall
present evidence second, and the applicant shall be allowed the opportunity to
present rebuttal evidence. Any reports or the transcript or summary of any
proceedings conducted pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 546(a) shall for purposes of the
administrative hearing be regarded no differently than any other evidence. The
county and the applicant must be afforded full procedural protection regarding
evidence related to these proceedings, including the right to refute any
evidence introduced in these proceedings or sought to be introduced by the
other party. Both shall have the opportunity to submit additional evidence
related to issues raised in the proceeding conducted pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §
546(a).
      (5)   There shall be a transcribed proceeding during which each party
will be allowed to present testimony (live, or written if so required) and
cross-examine the witnesses of the other party.
      (6)   Following completion of any hearing, the Hearing Officer shall
require the parties to submit proposed findings of fact with respect to the
matters that the County Board is entitled to consider in determining whether
renewal ought to be granted. Based on the record of the hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall then prepare written findings with respect to those matters, and
submit those findings, including a decision and the reasons therefor, to the
County Board and to the parties (unless the Hearing Officer is the County
Board, in which case the written findings shall constitute the final decision
of the county).
      (7)   If the Hearing Officer is not the County Board, the parties shall
have 30 days from the date the findings are submitted to the County Board to
file exceptions to those findings. The County Board shall thereafter issue a
written decision granting or denying the application for renewal, consistent
with the requirements of the Cable Act, based on the record of such proceeding,
stating the reason for the decision. A copy of the final decision of the County
Board shall be provided to the parties.
      (8)   The proceeding shall be conducted with due speed. Any decision to
renew a franchise shall be made by ordinance enacted no less than 30 days after
the filing of the application, and subsequent to preparation of a written
franchise agreement consistent with the decision by the county and signature
thereof by the applicant.
      (9)   In conducting the proceeding, and except as inconsistent with the
foregoing, the Hearing Officer will follow the Illinois Administrative
Procedures Act (5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.), as amended. The Hearing Officer may
request that the County Board adopt additional reasonable and necessary
procedures and requirements by resolution.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit any franchisee from submitting or the
county from considering an informal renewal application pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §
546(h), which application may be granted or denied in accordance with the
provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 546(h). If such an informal renewal application is
granted, including during the course of formal renewal proceedings, then the
steps specified in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section need not be
taken, notwithstanding the provisions of those divisions. However, the county
will provide the public with adequate notice before making a decision on such
an application, and will make any decision to renew by ordinance enacted no
less than 30 days after the filing of the application, and subsequent to the
preparation of a written franchise agreement by the county and signature
thereof by the applicant. Unless otherwise directed by the county, an informal
renewal application shall contain the information required under §
72.048.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall be read and applied so that they
are consistent with § 626 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 546, as amended.
(1993 Code, § 72.042) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.048 CONTENTS OF FRANCHISE AND RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   An RFP for the grant of a franchise, including for a franchise renewal shall
require, and any application submitted shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant and identification of the ownership
and control of the applicant, including: the names and addresses of all persons
with more than a 10% ownership interest in the applicant and all persons in
control of the applicant and/or the operations or system of the applicant; and
any other business affiliation and cable system ownership interest of each
named person;
   (B)   A demonstration of the applicant’s technical ability to construct and/
or operate the proposed or existing cable system, including identification of
key personnel and their cable television experience;
   (C)   A demonstration of the applicant’s legal qualifications to construct
and/or operate the proposed or existing cable system, including, but not
limited to, a demonstration that the applicant meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The applicant has not had any cable television franchise validly
revoked by any franchising authority within three years preceding the
submission of the application. If any revocation action is pending, it must be
identified and explained;
      (2)   The applicant has the necessary authority under state law to
operate a cable system;
      (3)   The applicant has authority to hold the franchise as a matter of
federal law. An applicant must have, or show that it is qualified to obtain,
any necessary federal franchises or waivers required to operate the proposed or
existing cable system;
      (4)   The applicant and its key personnel have not, at any time during
the ten years preceding the submission of the application, been convicted of
any criminal act or omission or civil violation of such character that the
applicant cannot be relied upon to comply substantially with its lawful
obligations under applicable law, including obligations under consumer
protection laws and laws prohibiting anti-competitive acts, fraud, racketeering
or other similar conduct. This criteria can be met by submission of a statement
that there are no convictions, or by submission of a list reflecting that all
convictions are of a minor nature;
      (5)   The applicant has not filed materially misleading information in
its application or intentionally withheld information that the applicant
lawfully is required to provide; and
      (6)   No elected official or employee of the county holds a controlling
interest in the applicant or an affiliate of the applicant, or has received any
promise of such an interest, or has received any gratuity, commission,
percentage, brokerage or contingency fee or other compensation for issuance or
renewal of a franchise, or promise thereof.
   (D)   A statement prepared by a certified public accountant regarding the
applicant’s financial ability to complete any proposed construction and to
operate the proposed or existing cable system;
   (E)   A description of the applicant’s prior experience in cable system
ownership, construction, and operation and identification of communities in
which the applicant or any of its affiliates have, or have had, a cable
franchise or franchise or any interest therein;
   (F)   Identification of the area of the county to be served by the proposed
cable system, including a description of the proposed franchise area’s
boundaries;
   (G)   A detailed description of existing and any proposed physical
facilities, including channel capacity, technical design, performance
characteristics, headend and access facilities;
   (H)   A description of any promised construction including an estimate of
plant mileage and its location; the proposed construction schedule;
   (I)   A description, where appropriate, of how services will be converted
from existing facilities to new facilities;
   (J)   A demonstration of how the applicant will reasonably meet the future
cable-related needs and interests of the community, including descriptions of
how the applicant will meet or disagrees with the needs described in any recent
community needs assessment conducted by or for the county;
   (K)   A description of public, educational and governmental access
facilities to be provided;
   (L)   If the applicant proposes to provide cable service to an area already
served by an existing franchisee, the identification of the area where the
overbuild would occur, the potential subscriber density in the area that would
encompass the overbuild, and the ability of the public rights-of-way and other
property that would be used by the applicant to accommodate an additional
system;
   (M)   Any other information as may be reasonably necessary to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
   (N)   Information that the county may reasonably request of the applicant
that is relevant to the county’s consideration of the application;
   (O)   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized
representative certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the
information in the application, acknowledging the enforceability of application
commitments upon acceptance through the granting of a franchise, and certifying
that the application is consistent with all federal, state and local laws; and
   (P)   Applicants for renewals may refer to prior applications as long as
they submit such updated information as required to make the application
current.
(1993 Code, § 72.043) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.049 APPLICATION FOR MODIFICATION OF A FRANCHISE.
   (A)   An application for modification of a franchise agreement shall
include, at minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The specific modification requested;
      (2)   The justification for the requested modification, including the
impact of the requested modification on subscribers and others, and the
financial impact on the applicant if the modification is approved or
disapproved, demonstrated through, among other things, submission of financial
pro formulas covering the period of time in which the modification would be in
effect if approved, including a statement of projected gross revenues and
income;
      (3)   A statement whether the modification is sought pursuant to § 625 of
the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 545, and, if so, a demonstration that the requested
modification meets the standards set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 545;
      (4)   Any other information that the applicant believes is necessary for
the county to make an informed determination on the application for
modification; and
      (5)   An affidavit or declaration of the applicant or authorized officer
certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the information in the
application, acknowledging the enforceability of application commitments upon
acceptance through the granting of the modification, and certifying that the
application is consistent with all federal, state and local laws.
   (B)   If the request for modification is subject to 47 U.S.C. § 545, the
County Board will conduct its review and makes its decision in conformity with
that statute. If the request for modification is not subject to 47 U.S.C. §
545, the County Board will conduct its review and make its decision by chapter
enacted no less than 30 days after the application is filed, subsequent to
preparation of a modified written franchise agreement by the county and
signature thereof by the applicant.
   (C)   An extension of a franchise term by less than four years shall
constitute a modification. An extension of a franchise term by four years or
more shall be processed through formal or informal renewal procedures.
(1993 Code, § 72.044) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.050 FRANCHISE TRANSFERS.
   (A)   County approval required. No franchise transfer shall occur without
prior written application to and written approval of the County Board by
ordinance enacted after a public hearing, and only then upon such terms and
conditions as the County Board reasonably deems necessary and proper. Approval
shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any purported franchise transfer made
without such prior approval shall be void and shall be cause for the county to
revoke the franchise agreement. A grant of a franchise involves personal
credit, trust and confidence in the franchisee, and franchise transfer without
the prior written approval of the County Board shall be considered to impair
the county’s assurance of due performance. The granting of approval for a
franchise transfer in one instance shall not render unnecessary approval of any
subsequent franchise transfer.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The franchisee shall promptly notify the County Clerk in writing of
any proposed franchise transfer. If any franchise transfer should take place
without prior notice to the county, the franchisee will promptly notify the
County Clerk in writing that such a franchise transfer has occurred.
      (2)   At least 120 calendar days prior to the contemplated effective date
of a franchise transfer, the franchisee shall submit to the County Clerk an
application for approval of the franchise transfer. Such an application shall
provide information on the proposed transaction, including details on the
legal, financial, technical and other qualifications of the transferee, any
waivers required from the city under applicable law, and on the potential
impact of the franchise transfer on subscriber rates and service. At a minimum,
the following information must be included in the application:
         (a)   All information and forms required under federal law;
         (b)   All information described in §
72.048(A) through (E), (I), (K), (M) through (O), regarding the transferee
instead of the applicant, and regarding the franchise transfer rather than
initial or renewal franchise;
         (c)   A description of any business relationships or transactions of
any kind, past, present or anticipated, between the franchisee, or its owners
or affiliates, and the transferee, or its owners or affiliates, other than the
proposed transaction;
         (d)   Any contracts, financing documents or other documents that
relate to the proposed transaction and all documents, schedules, exhibits or
the like referred to therein;
         (e)   A description of the sources and amounts of the funds to be used
in the proposed transaction, indicating how the debt-equity ratio of the system
will change in the course of the transaction; what entities will be liable for
repayment of any debt incurred; what interest, payment schedule and other terms
or conditions will apply to any debt financing; any debt coverages or financial
ratios any potential transferees will be required to maintain over the
franchise term if the proposed transaction is approved; what financial
resources would be available to the system under the control of the proposed
transferee;
         (f)   Any other information necessary to provide a complete and
accurate understanding of the financial position of the system before and after
the proposed franchise transfer, including, but not limited to, projected
income statements and cash flow statements, including capital investments, for
at least five years after the proposed franchise transfer, assuming the
franchise transfer is approved, stating specifically what assumptions are being
made with respect to any rebuild or upgrade of the system; and
         (g)   A statement that the franchisee is in compliance with its
franchise obligations over the term of the franchise, or specific descriptions
of any noncompliance of which the franchisee or any potential transferee is
aware.
      (3)   For the purposes of determining whether it shall consent to a
franchise transfer, the County Board and its agents may inquire into the
qualifications of the prospective transferee and such other matters as the
County Board may deem necessary to determine whether the franchise transfer is
in the public interest and should be approved or denied. The franchisee and any
prospective transferees shall assist the County Board in any such inquiry, and
if they fail to reasonably cooperate, the request for approval of franchise
transfer may be denied. Proprietary information shall be protected from
disclosure to competitors to the extent permitted by law.
   (C)   Determination by county.
      (1)   In making a determination as to whether to grant, deny or grant
subject to conditions an application for approval of a franchise transfer, the
County Board shall consider the legal, financial and technical qualifications
of the transferee to operate the system; whether any required waivers under
applicable law are in the best interests of the public; whether the franchisee
is in compliance with its franchise agreement and this chapter and, if not, the
proposed transferee’s commitment to cure such noncompliance; and whether
operation by the transferee on approval of the franchise transfer would
adversely affect the county’s interest under this chapter, the franchise
agreement, other applicable law, or the public interest, or make it less likely
that the future cable-related needs and interests of the community would be
satisfied.
      (2)   The county shall make its determination in accordance with any time
limits imposed by federal law, including under 47 U.S.C. § 537.
      (3)   Any purported franchise transfer made without the County Board’s
prior written approval shall be void, and shall make a franchise subject to
revocation at the County Board’s sole discretion, and make any other remedies
available to the county under the franchise or other applicable law. Acceptance
of filing of an application for approval of a franchise transfer later than 120
days before the purported effective date of the franchise transfer shall not
validate the transaction or excuse the late filing, and in such an instance the
county shall retain the right to make its decision regarding such a franchise
transfer within 120 days unless action is required sooner by law.
   (D)   Transferee’s agreement. No application for approval of a franchise
transfer shall be granted unless and until the proposed transferee submits an
agreement in writing that it will abide by and accept all terms of this chapter
and the franchise agreement, and that it will assume the obligations and
liabilities, known and unknown, of the previous franchisee under this chapter
and the franchise agreement for all purposes, including renewal, unless the
County Board approves a modification of the franchise agreement pursuant to §
72.049 in conjunction with its approval of the franchise transfer, in which
case the proposed transferee’s agreement shall refer to the franchise agreement
as so modified.
   (E)   Approval does not constitute waiver. Approval by the County Board of a
franchise transfer does not constitute a waiver or release of any of the rights
of the county under this chapter or a franchise agreement, whether arising
before or after the date of the franchise transfer; however, upon approval of a
franchise transfer, the former franchisee shall be released from prospective
liability under the franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.045) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.051 FILING FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   To be acceptable for filing, an application under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by a filing fee in the following amounts to cover the county’s
internal administrative costs incidental to the franchising process:
 
Service                                                         Fee
For an initial franchise                                        $1,000
For approval of a franchise transfer                            $500
For modification of a franchise agreement                       $500
For renewal of a franchise under 47 U.S.C. § 546(h)            $500
For renewal of a franchise under 47 U.S.C. § 546(a) through (g)$1,000
 
(1993 Code, § 72.046) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.052 PUBLIC PROCEEDINGS.
   An applicant shall be notified of any public proceedings held in connection
with the evaluation of its application and shall be given an opportunity to be
heard thereat. Notice of all public proceedings of the county shall be
published and posted in accordance with its usual practices.
(1993 Code, § 72.047) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.053 INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION.
   By resolution of the County Board, any part or all of the process
established by this subchapter may be conducted in concert with other political
subdivisions served or to be served by the applicant.
(1993 Code, § 72.048) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
§ 72.065 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   Every franchise agreement shall specify the construction schedule that will
apply to any required construction, upgrade or rebuild of the cable system.
Failure on the part of a franchisee to commence and diligently pursue such
requirements and complete the matters set forth in its franchise agreement or
to comply with the system design and construction plan submitted to the county,
including by providing the equipment specified (or its equivalent) and by
following generally accepted installation practices (except insofar as those
plans or practices, if carried out, would result in construction of a system
which could not meet requirements of federal, state or local law; and except
for such minor modifications as are typical in the industry), shall be grounds
for revocation of its franchise under and pursuant to the terms of §
72.200; provided, however, that the County Board in its discretion may extend
the time for the completion of construction and installation for additional
periods by resolution in the event a franchisee, acting in good faith,
experiences delays by reason of circumstances beyond its control and requests
such an extension in writing. A franchisee’s failure to comply with provisions
of the construction plan approved by the County Board shall also be grounds for
imposition of penalties pursuant to §
72.999.
(1993 Code, § 72.060) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.066 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A franchisee shall construct, operate and maintain the cable system
subject to the supervision of all of the authorities of the county who have
jurisdiction in such matters, and in compliance with all laws, ordinances,
departmental rules and regulations affecting the system.
   (B)   The system, and all parts thereof, shall be subject to periodic
inspection by the county.
   (C)   No construction, reconstruction or relocation of the system or any
part thereof within the public rights-of-way shall be commenced until written
permits have been obtained from the proper county officials. In any permit so
issued, such officials may impose such conditions and regulations as a
condition of the granting of the permit as are reasonably necessary for the
purpose of protecting any structures or facilities in the public rights-of-way
and for the proper restoration of such public rights-of-way and structures and
facilities, and for the protection of the public and the continuity of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The County Board may by resolution or ordinance, from time to time,
issue such reasonable rules and regulations concerning the construction,
operation and maintenance of the system as are consistent with the provisions
of this chapter and franchises issued pursuant to this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.061) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.067 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The construction, operation, maintenance and repair of a cable system
shall be in accordance with all applicable sections of the Occupational Safety
and Health Act of 1970, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., the National Electrical
Safety Code, the National Electric Code, National Cable Television Association
Standards of Good Engineering Practices; Obstruction Marking and Lighting,
Federal Aviation Administration; Construction, Marking and Lighting of Antenna
Structures, Federal Communications Commission Rules Part 17; AT&T Manual of
Construction Procedures (Blue Book); franchisee’s Construction Procedures
Manual; other federal, state or local laws and regulations that may apply to
the operation, construction, maintenance or repair of a cable system,
including, without limitation, local zoning and construction codes, and laws
and accepted industry practices, all as hereafter may be amended or adopted. In
the event of a conflict among codes and standards, the most stringent code or
standard shall apply (except insofar as that code or standard, if followed,
would result in a system that could not meet requirements of federal, state or
local law). The county may adopt additional reasonable standards as required to
ensure that work continues to be performed in an orderly and workmanlike
manner, or to reflect changes in standards which may occur over a franchise
term.
   (B)   All wires, cable lines and other transmission lines, equipment and
structures shall be installed and located to cause minimum interference with
the rights and convenience of property owners, including the county.
   (C)   All electronic equipment shall be of good and durable quality.
   (D)   Without limiting the foregoing, antennas and their supporting
structures (towers) shall be designed in accordance with the Uniform Building
Code and Electronics Industry Association RS22A Specifications, as amended, and
shall be painted, lighted, erected and maintained in accordance with all
applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration and all
other applicable federal, state or local laws, codes and regulations, all as
hereafter may be amended or adopted.
   (E)   Without limiting the foregoing, all of a franchisee’s plant and
equipment, including, but not limited to, the antennas site, headend and
distribution system, towers, house connections, structures, poles, wires,
cable, coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, fixtures and apparatuses shall be
installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced and properly trained maintenance and
construction personnel so as not to endanger any person or property or to
unreasonably interfere in any manner with the public rights-of-way or legal
rights of any property owner including the county or unnecessarily hinder or
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (F)   All safety practices required by law shall be used during
construction, maintenance and repair of a cable system. A franchisee shall
install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices to prevent
failures and accidents that are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to
the public.
   (G)   A franchisee shall not place facilities, equipment or fixtures where
they will interfere with any cable, gas, electric, telephone, water, sewer or
other utility facilities, or obstruct or hinder in any manner the various
utilities serving the residents and businesses in the county of their use of
any public rights-of-way.
   (H)   Any and all public rights-of-way, public property or private property
disturbed or damaged during the construction, repair, replacement, relocation,
operation, maintenance or construction of a system shall be repaired or
replaced by the franchisee within a reasonable time specified by the county.
   (I)   A franchisee shall, by a reasonable time specified by the county,
protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate or remove discrete portions
of its property when required by the county by reason of traffic conditions;
public safety; public right-of-way construction; public right-of-way
maintenance or repair (including resurfacing or widening); change of public
right- of-way grade; construction, installation or repair of sewers, drains,
water pipes, power lines, signal lines, tracks or any other type of government-
owned communications system, public work or improvement or any government-owned
utility; public right-of-way vacation; or for any other purpose where the
convenience of the county would be reasonably served thereby; provided,
however, that the franchisee may abandon any property in place if approved by
the county in writing, and provided further that the franchisee shall not be
required to make permanent changes in its facilities to accommodate the
installation of another cable system, nor should it be required to make
temporary changes solely to disrupt its business or otherwise provide an unfair
advantage to a competitor. No action hereunder shall be deemed a taking of the
property of a franchisee and a franchisee shall not be entitled to any
compensation therefor. No location of any pole or wire-holding structure of a
franchisee shall be a vested interest.
   (J)   If any action under division (I) of this section is reasonably
required to accommodate the construction, operation or repair of the facilities
of another person that is authorized to use the public rights-of-way, a
franchisee shall, after 30 days’ advance written notice, take action to effect
the necessary changes requested. The franchisee shall be reimbursed by such
other person for costs reasonably incurred in taking such action. The County
Board may resolve disputes as to responsibility for costs associated with the
removal, relaying or relocation of facilities as among entities authorized to
install facilities in the public rights-of-way if the parties are unable to do
so themselves, and if the matter is not governed by a valid contract between
the parties. All charges shall be consistent with 55 ILCS 5/5-1095.
   (K)   In the event of an emergency, or where a cable system creates or is
contributing to an imminent danger to health, safety or property, the county
may remove, relay or relocate the pertinent parts of that cable system without
prior notice. No charge shall be made by franchisee against the county for
restoration and repair.
   (L)   A franchisee shall, on the request of the county or any person holding
a permit issued by the county, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit
the moving of buildings or oversized vehicles. The expense of such temporary
removal or raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting
same, and the franchisee shall have the authority to require such payment in
advance, except in the case where the request is made by the county on its own
behalf, in which case no such payment shall be required. The franchisee shall
be given not less than 48 hours’ advance notice to arrange for such temporary
wire changes unless the County Board has declared an emergency. All charges
shall be consistent with 55 ILCS 5/5-1095.
   (M)   A franchisee shall have the authority to trim trees that overhang a
public right-of-way of the county so as to prevent the branches of such trees
from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the franchisee, at its own
expense subject to the supervision and direction of the county. Trimming of
trees on private property shall require written permission of the property
owner. All cut materials shall be properly disposed.
   (N)   A franchisee shall use, with the owner’s permission, existing
underground conduits or overhead utility facilities whenever feasible and may
not erect poles in public rights-of-way without the express written permission
of the County Board, which permission shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Copies of agreements for use of conduits or other facilities shall be filed
with the County Clerk as required by a franchise agreement or upon county
request.
   (O)   Trunk, feeder and drop cable may be constructed overhead where poles
exist and electric, cable television or telephone lines are overhead, but where
no overhead lines exist all trunk, feeder and drop cable shall be constructed
underground. Whenever and wherever all electric lines and telephone lines are
moved from overhead to underground placement, all cable system cables shall be
similarly moved and the cost of movement of its cable shall be solely the
obligation of the franchisee. In cases of new construction or property
development where utilities are to be placed underground, on request of
franchisee the developer or property owner shall give a franchisee reasonable
notice of the particular date on which open trenching will be available to
franchisee for installation of conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals
to be provided at the franchisee’s expense. The franchisee shall also provide
specifications as needed for trenching. Costs of trenching and easements
required to bring facilities within the development shall be borne by the
developer or property owner; except that if the franchisee fails to install its
conduit, pedestals and/or vaults, and laterals within five working days of the
date the trenches are available, as designated in the notice given by the
developer or property owner, then should the trenches be closed after the five-
day period, the cost of new trenching is to be borne by the franchisee.
   (P)   The county shall have the right to install and maintain free of charge
upon any poles or within any conduit owned by a franchisee any wire and pole
fixtures that do not unreasonably interfere with the cable system operations of
the franchisee.
   (Q)   Prior to construction or rebuild of a cable system, a franchisee shall
first submit to the County Board for approval a concise description of the
cable system proposed to be erected or installed, including engineering
drawings, if required by the County Board, together with a map and plans
indicating the proposed location of all such facilities, and obtain written
approval therefor from the County Board, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
   (R)   Any contractor or subcontractor used for work or construction,
installation, operation, maintenance or repair of system equipment must be
properly licensed under laws of the state and all applicable local ordinances,
and each contractor or subcontractor shall have the same obligations with
respect to its work as a franchisee would have under the franchise agreement
and applicable laws if the work were performed by the franchisee. The
franchisee must ensure that contractors, subcontractors and all employees who
will perform work for it are trained and experienced. The franchisee shall be
responsible for ensuring that the work of contractors and subcontractors is
performed consistent with the franchise and applicable law, shall be fully
responsible for all acts or omissions of contractors or subcontractors, shall
be responsible for promptly correcting acts or omissions by any contractor or
subcontractor, and shall implement a quality control program to ensure that the
work is properly performed.
   (S)   Upon failure of a franchisee to commence, pursue or complete any work
required by law or by the provisions of this chapter to be done in any street,
within the time prescribed and to the reasonable satisfaction of the county,
the county may, at its option, after 30 days’ notice to franchisee, cause such
work to be done and the franchisee shall pay to the county the cost thereof in
the itemized amounts reported by the county to franchisee within 30 days after
receipt of such itemized report.
   (T)   The franchisee shall make no paving cuts or curb cuts except after
written permission has been given by the county, which permission shall not
unreasonably be withheld.
   (U)   The franchisee shall install in conduit all cable passing under any
major roadway.
(1993 Code, § 72.062) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.068 AREA SERVED.
   A franchisee shall build and maintain its system so that within a reasonable
period of time, as established by the franchise, it is able to provide service
to all households desiring service located within the franchise area without
any construction charges (other than standard connection charges and drop
charges as indicated in §
72.069(B)). A franchisee must build and maintain its system so that it can
extend service to households desiring service located outside the franchise
area in accordance with §
72.069(A) through (D). Connections to commercial customers shall be governed by
§
72.069(E).
(1993 Code, § 72.063) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.069 LINE EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Extensions generally.
      (1)   For areas within the county and outside of a municipality but
outside the franchise area, a franchisee shall upon request of the County Board
extend its trunk and distribution system to serve households desiring service
without any construction charge (other than standard connection charges and
drop charges as indicated in division (B)) below unless the franchisee
demonstrates to the County Board’s satisfaction evidenced by written decision
that circumstances justify a specific charge, where: the new subscriber
requesting service is located within 500 feet from the termination of the cable
system, or the number of potential subscribers to be passed by such extension
is equal to or greater than six potential households per quarter mile measured
from any point on the system.
      (2)   (a)   In the event that the requirements set forth in division (A)
(1) of this section are not met, the franchisee shall on request of the County
Board extend its cable system based upon the following cost-sharing formula.
The franchisee shall contribute an amount equal to the construction costs per
mile multiplied by the length of the extension in miles, multiplied by a
fraction where the numerator equals the number of potential households per
quarter mile at the time of the request and the denominator equals six.
Households requesting service as of the completion of construction can be
required to bear the remainder of the total construction costs on a pro rata
basis.
         (b)   The CONSTRUCTION COSTS are defined as the actual turnkey cost to
construct the entire extension including lines, materials, electronics, pole
make-ready charges and labor, but not the cost of drops except as provided
below. If the franchisee proposes to require a household requesting extension
to make a contribution in aid of extension, it must notify the County Board in
advance; send the County Board a copy of the invoice showing the amount
actually charged each household requesting extension; and within 30 days of
completion of the extension, furnish proof of the total cost of the extension
and make any appropriate refunds if the total cost is less than the amounts
charged in advance of construction. At the end of each calendar year, the
franchisee must calculate the amount any contributing person would have paid
based on the number of persons served at that time and pay back the difference
between the amount actually collected from that person and the amount which
would then be owed. The franchisee shall report such calculations and refunds
to the County Clerk by the end of January of the following year.
   (B)   Installation of drops. Except as federal rate regulations may
otherwise require, the franchisee shall not assess any additional cost for
service drops of 150 feet or less unless the franchise demonstrates to the
County Board’s satisfaction, evidenced by written decision, that circumstances
justify a specific charge. Where a drop exceeds 150 feet in length, a
franchisee may charge the subscriber for the difference between franchisee’s
actual costs associated with installing a 150-foot drop, and the franchisee’s
actual cost of installing the longer drop, provided that drop length shall be
the shorter of the actual length of installed drop or the shortest practicable
distance to the point where the franchisee would be required to extend its
distribution system.
   (C)   Location of drops. Except as federal rate regulations may otherwise
require, in any area where a franchisee would be entitled to install a drop
above ground, the franchisee will provide the subscriber the option to have the
drop installed underground, but may charge the subscriber the difference
between the actual cost of the above-ground installation and the actual cost of
the underground installation.
   (D)   Time for extension. A franchisee must extend service to any person who
requests it:
      (1)   Within seven days of the request within the franchise area or where
service can be provided by activating or installing a drop within 150 feet of
the existing distribution system;
      (2)   Within 90 days of the request for service outside the franchise
area where an extension of one-half mile or less (but more than 150 feet) is
required; or
      (3)   Within six months for service outside the franchise area where an
extension of one-half mile or more is required.
   (E)   Reasonable costs. Because existing conditions can vary dramatically,
the franchisee may in its discretion require commercial customers to pay all
reasonable costs (including time and materials) in excess of the average cost
of connection for residential services.
(1993 Code, § 72.064) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.070 SYSTEM TESTS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Tests. A franchisee shall perform the following tests to demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of the franchise and other performance
standards established by federal law. All tests shall be conducted in
accordance with federal rules and in accordance with the most recent edition of
NCTA’s Recommended Practices for Measurements on Cable Television Systems, or
if no recent edition exists, such other appropriate manual as the parties may
designate.
      (1)   Preconstruction quality control on cable and equipment. A
franchisee shall perform preconstruction quality tests on system components. In
case of passive components, this will include testing a significant sample of
devices to verify compliance with manufacturer’s specifications.
         (a)   All trunk and distribution cable shall be sweep-tested on the
reels to verify compliance with manufacturer’s specifications for frequency
response and loss.
         (b)   All trunk and distribution amplifiers shall be bench-tested to
verify compliance with manufacturer’s specifications.
         (c)   No component shall be used in the system which fails to meet
manufacturer’s specifications. A franchisee shall maintain in the county,
records of all preconstruction tests, which the county may inspect during
normal business hours on reasonable notice.
      (2)   Acceptance tests. A franchisee shall perform acceptance tests prior
to subscriber connection. The tests shall demonstrate that the system
components are operating as expected. The test results shall be submitted to
the County Clerk for review by the county. The franchisee shall have the
obligation, without further notice from the county, to take corrective action
if any system components are not operating as expected. Unless the county
determines test results are not adequate to demonstrate system compliance with
the standards described above and objects within three working days of receipt
of the test results, the portion of the system covered by the tests will be
deemed approved for subscriber connection.
      (3)   Continuing tests.
         (a)   The franchisee shall select locations at the extremities of the
system to install equipment to establish sufficient permanent test points in
accordance with federal law and sound engineering practices. The franchisee
shall perform proof of performance tests at these locations at least once every
six months through the life of the franchise except as federal law otherwise
limits its obligation, and at other times and points where complaints indicate
tests are warranted. The tests shall demonstrate system compliance with
technical specifications established pursuant to franchise, or other applicable
law. If the county requests to witness the tests, it shall be notified in
writing delivered to the County Clerk at least 48 hours in advance of any
testing.
         (b)   A written report of all test results shall be kept on file by
the franchisee and provided to the County Clerk on request. If a location fails
to meet performance specifications, the franchisee shall take corrective action
and retest the location. The county shall have the option of witnessing such
follow-up tests and shall be notified in writing delivered to the County Clerk
at least 48 hours in advance of any such follow-up testing.
         (c)   At any time after commencement of service to subscribers the
county may require additional tests, full or partial repeat tests, different
test procedures, or tests involving a specific subscriber’s terminal. Requests
for such additional tests will be made on the basis of complaints received or
other evidence indicating an unresolved controversy or significant
noncompliance, and such tests will be limited to the particular matter in
controversy. The county may conduct such tests independently on three days’
advance notice to franchisee. The county will endeavor to so arrange its
requests for such special tests so as to minimize hardship or inconvenience to
the franchisee and the subscriber(s).
      (4)   All reports of test results shall include executive summaries.
      (5)   Test procedures used in verification of the performance criteria
set forth herein, if not as set forth in § 76.609, Subpart K of the FCC Rules
and Regulations, shall be in accordance with good engineering practice and
shall be fully described in an attachment to the annual certificate filed with
the county.
      (6)   To the extent that the report of measurements as required above may
be combined with any reports of measurements required by the FCC or other
regulatory agencies, the county shall accept such combined reports, provided
that all standards and measurements herein or hereafter established by the
county are satisfied.
   (B)   Inspections. The county may conduct inspections of the system,
including to assess compliance with the construction and installation practices
manuals and design plans. The franchisee shall be notified in writing of any
violations found during the course of inspections. The franchisee must bring
violations into compliance within 30 days of the date notice of violation is
given, and must submit a report to the County Clerk describing the steps taken
to bring itself into compliance. Inspection does not relieve the franchisee of
its obligation to build in compliance with all provisions of the franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.065) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.071 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Should the grades or boundaries of the public rights-of-way which the
franchisee is authorized to use and occupy be changed at any time during the
term of the franchise granted, the franchisee shall, if necessary, at its own
cost and expense, relocate or change its system so as to conform with the new
grades or boundaries.
   (B)   Any alteration to the existing water mains, sewerage or drainage
system or to any county, state or other public structures or facilities in the
public rights-of-way required on account of the construction of the system in
the public rights-of-way shall be made at the sole cost and expense of the
franchisee. During any work of constructing, operating or maintaining of the
system, the franchisee shall also, at its own cost and expense, protect any and
all existing structures and facilities belonging to the county and any other
person. All work performed by the franchisee pursuant to this section shall be
done in such manner prescribed by the county or other officials having
jurisdiction thereover.
(1993 Code, § 72.066) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.072 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC PROJECTS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be in preference or hindrance to the right of
the county and any board, authority, commission or public service corporation
to perform or carry on any public works or public improvements of any
description.
(1993 Code, § 72.067) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.073 PUBLICIZING PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION WORK.
   Unless not possible due to emergency circumstances, the franchisee shall
publicize proposed construction work at least ten days prior to commencement of
that work by causing written notice of such construction work to be delivered
to the County Clerk. In addition, unless not possible due to emergency
circumstances, before entering onto any person’s property, a franchisee shall
contact the property owner or occupant at least one day in advance. If a
franchisee must enter a private building, it must have permission of the owner
or occupant.
(1993 Code, § 72.068) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.074 SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Interruptions to be minimized. A franchisee shall schedule maintenance
so that activities likely to result in an interruption of service are performed
during periods of minimum subscriber use of the system.
   (B)   Maintenance practices. In addition to its other obligations, a
franchisee shall use replacement components of good and durable quality, with
characteristics better or equal to replaced equipment; and follow the more
stringent of maintenance standards specified in the franchise agreement, cable
televisions industry maintenance standards or franchisee’s maintenance
standards.
(1993 Code, § 72.069) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.075 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be the right of all persons in a franchisee’s franchise area
to receive all available services from the franchisee as long as their
financial and other obligations to the franchisee are satisfied, and subject to
reasonable construction standards and schedules, and subject to availability of
legal access to the location.
   (B)   A franchisee shall make every reasonable effort to provide all
subscribers with continuous uninterrupted service. At the county’s request, a
franchisee shall operate its system for a temporary period under a revocable
permit granted expressly by ordinance or tacitly following the termination of
its franchise or franchise transfer as necessary to maintain service to
subscribers, and shall cooperate with the county to assure an orderly
transition from it to another franchisee or system operator (the “transition
period”). The transition period shall be no longer than the reasonable period
required for another franchisee to commence service, and shall not be longer
than two years. During the transition period, the franchisee shall continue to
be obligated to comply with the terms and conditions of its franchise agreement
and applicable laws and regulations, and will thereupon continue to receive
operating revenues during such transition period.
(1993 Code, § 72.070) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
SYSTEM FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES
§ 72.090 COMPLIANCE WITH FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   In addition to satisfying such requirements as may be established through
the application process and incorporated in its franchise agreement including,
but not limited to, those pertaining to public, educational and governmental
access facilities, every franchisee shall comply with the conditions set forth
in this subchapter, except as prohibited by federal law.
(1993 Code, § 72.080) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.091 FULL SERVICE TO MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS.
   A franchisee shall, on request of the county, install, at no charge, at
least one service outlet at all municipal buildings and all primary and
secondary education public and private schools within the franchise area, and
shall install and charge only its reasonable costs for any additional service
outlets requested for such locations, so long as such additional installations
will not interfere with the quality and operation of the franchisee’s system or
signal thereon, and the quality and manner of installation of such additional
outlets shall have been approved by the franchisee (which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld) and shall comply with all local, state and federal laws
and regulations. The franchisee shall provide basic cable service and expanded
basic cable service to all outlets in such buildings free of charge. A
franchise may specify other requirements regarding the availability of
facilities for municipal use.
(1993 Code, § 72.081) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.092 CABLE CHANNELS FOR COMMERCIAL USE, LOCAL COMMERCIAL TELEVISION SIGNALS
AND NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION.
   A franchisee shall designate channel capacity for commercial and
noncommercial use by persons unaffiliated with the franchisee as required by
federal law, consistent with the principle of fairness and equal accessibility
to all persons and the county to the extent they have a legitimate use for such
capacity.
(1993 Code, § 72.082) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.093 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any cable system within the county and outside of a municipality shall
meet or exceed the technical standards set forth in 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.601 et seq.
and any other applicable federal technical standards, including any such
reasonable standards as hereafter may be amended or adopted by the County Board
in a manner consistent with federal law.
   (B)   A franchisee shall use equipment generally used in high-quality,
reliable, modern systems of similar design, including, but not limited to,
back-up power supplies at the fiber nodes and headends capable of providing
power to the system for a minimum of two hours in the event of an electrical
outage, plus adequate portable generators to cover longer outages. The
obligation to provide backup power supplies requires the franchisee to install
equipment that will cut in automatically on failure of commercial utility AC
power, revert automatically to commercial power when it is restored, and
prevent the standby power source from powering a “dead” utility line. In
addition, the design and construction of a system shall include modulators,
antennas, amplifiers and other electronics that permit and are capable of
passing through the signal received at the headend with minimal alteration or
deterioration.
(1993 Code, § 72.083) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.094 INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   A franchisee shall design its system so that it may be interconnected
with any or all other systems or similar communications systems in the area.
Interconnection of systems may be made by direct cable connection, microwave
link, satellite or other appropriate methods.
   (B)   Upon receiving the directive of the County Board to interconnect, the
franchisee shall immediately initiate negotiations with the other affected
system or systems so that costs may be shared proportionately for both
construction and operation of the interconnection link.
   (C)   The County Board may in writing grant reasonable extensions of time to
interconnect or rescind its request to interconnect upon its own initiative or
upon petition by the franchisee to the County Board. The County Board shall
rescind the request if it finds that the franchisee has negotiated in good
faith and the cost of interconnection would cause an unreasonable increase in
subscriber rates.
   (D)   No interconnection shall take place without prior written approval of
the County Board. A franchisee seeking approval for interconnection shall
demonstrate that all signals to be interconnected will comply with FCC
technical standards for all classes of signals and will result in no more than
a low level of distortion.
   (E)   The franchisee shall cooperate with any interconnection corporation,
regional interconnection authority or state or federal regulatory agency which
may be established for the purpose of regulating, facilitating, financing or
otherwise providing for the interconnection of communications systems beyond
the boundaries of the portion of the county that is outside of a municipality.
(1993 Code, § 72.084) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.095 INTEGRATION OF ADVANCEMENTS IN TECHNOLOGY.
   A franchise agreement may require a franchisee to periodically upgrade its
cable system to integrate advancements in technology as may be necessary to
meet the needs and interests of the community in light of the costs thereof,
and/or to submit periodic reports on cable technology and competition to the
County Clerk.
(1993 Code, § 72.085) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.096 SYSTEM DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   In addition to any requirements included in a franchise agreement, at
least 60 days prior to the date construction of any rebuild is scheduled to
commence, the franchisee shall provide the County Clerk with notice that a
detailed system design and construction plan is available for review by the
county at a specific office of the franchisee located in the county, which
shall include at least the following elements:
      (1)   Design type, trunk and feeder design and number and location of
hubs or nodes;
      (2)   Distribution system-cable, fiber and equipment to be used;
      (3)   Plans for standby power;
      (4)   Longest amplifier cascade in system (number of amplifiers, number
of miles, type of cable/fiber); and
      (5)   Design maps and-tree trunk maps for the system.
   (B)   The system design will be shown on maps of industry standard scale
using standard symbols, and shall depict all electronic and physical features
of the cable plant. The county may review the plan and, within 30 days of the
date the plan is made available for county review, submit comments to the
franchisee. Within 15 days of receipt of the comments, the franchisee shall
notify the County Clerk that a revised plan is available for review by the
county at a specific office located in Madison County, Illinois, either
incorporating the comments or explaining why the comments were not included.
The county’s review does not excuse any non-performance under a franchise
agreement, this chapter or other applicable law.
(1993 Code, § 72.086) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.097 EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM.
   A franchisee shall comply with 47 U.S.C. § 544(g) and all regulations issued
pursuant thereto.
(1993 Code, § 72.087) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
OPERATION AND REPORTING PROVISIONS
§ 72.110 OPEN BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions herein, the county shall have the right to
inspect and copy at any time during normal business hours at an office of the
franchisee located in the county, all books, receipts, maps, plans, financial
statements, contracts, service complaint logs, performance test results,
records of requests for service, computer records, codes, programs and disks or
other storage media and other like material which are reasonably necessary to
monitor compliance with the terms of this chapter, a franchise agreement, or
applicable law, except such records as are privileged or protected from
disclosure under applicable law. The franchisee is responsible for collecting
the information and producing it at the location specified above, and by
accepting its franchise it affirms that it can and will do so. The franchisee
will make suitable copying equipment available to the county and will bear the
cost of such copying, which cost is not a franchise fee and falls within one or
more of the exceptions of 47 U.S.C. § 542(g)(2).
   (B)   A franchisee shall maintain sufficient financial records governing its
operations in the franchise area to document accurate payment of franchise
fees.
   (C)   All such information received by the county shall remain confidential
insofar as permitted by the Illinois Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.)
and Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.) and other applicable
state and federal law.
   (D)   The franchisee shall maintain a file of records open to public
inspection in accordance with applicable FCC rules and regulations.
(1993 Code, § 72.100) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.111 COMMUNICATION WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   A franchisee shall file with the County Clerk copies of all reports required
by and certifications issued by the FCC, including, but not limited to, any
proof of performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity reports,
and also all petitions, applications and communications of all types regarding
the cable system, or a group of cable systems of which the franchisee’s cable
system is a part, submitted or received by the franchisee, an affiliate, or any
other person on behalf of the franchisee, either to or from the FCC, the
Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal or state regulatory
commission or agency having jurisdiction over any matter affecting operation of
the franchisee’s system. This material shall be submitted to the County Clerk
at the time it is filed or within 30 days of the date it is received. Public
access to such reports received by the County Clerk shall not be denied.
(1993 Code, § 72.101) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.112 REPORTS.
   (A)   Reports generally. No later than 90 days after the end of its fiscal
year, a franchisee shall file a written report with the County Clerk, which
shall include:
      (1)   An annual financial report from the previous year;
      (2)   An ownership report, indicating all persons who at any time during
the preceding year did control or benefit from an interest in the franchise of
10% or more;
      (3)   A list of key employees of the franchisee;
      (4)   Such other information as the County Board may reasonably direct;
and
      (5)   To the extent there has been no change since the preceding annual
report, that fact may be noted in lieu of an additional report.
   (B)   Opinion survey report. The franchisee shall submit to the County Clerk
the results of any opinion survey conducted, within 30 days of completion of
the survey.
   (C)   Special reports. Franchisees shall deliver the following special
reports to the County Clerk:
      (1)   The   franchisee shall submit quarterly construction reports for
any construction that may be specified in the franchise;
      (2)   Copies of any notice of deficiency, forfeiture or other document
issued by any state or federal agency instituting any investigation or civil or
criminal proceeding regarding the cable system, the franchisee, or any
affiliate of the franchisee, to the extent the same may affect or bear on
operations in the county and outside of a municipality. This material shall be
submitted to the County Clerk at the time it is filed or within 30 days of the
date it is received;
      (3)   Copies of any request for protection under bankruptcy laws, or any
judgment related to a declaration of bankruptcy by the franchisee or by any
person that owns or controls the franchisee directly or indirectly. This
material shall be submitted to the County Clerk at the time it is filed or
within 30 days of the date it is received;
      (4)   Technical tests required by the county as specified in this chapter
and the franchise agreement shall be submitted to the County Clerk within 30
days after completion of such tests; and
      (5)   The franchisee shall keep on file with the County Clerk its current
schedule of charges.
   (D)   General reports. Each franchisee shall prepare and furnish to the
County Clerk, at the times and in the form prescribed by the County Board, such
reports with respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as
may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the
rights, functions or duties of the county in connection with this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.102) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.113 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A franchisee shall at all times maintain at an office within the
county:
      (1)   Records of all written or recorded complaints received. The term
COMPLAINTS as used herein and throughout this chapter refers to complaints
about any aspect of the cable system or franchisee’s operations, including,
without limitation, complaints about employee courtesy;
      (2)   A full and complete set of plans, records and “as built” maps
showing the exact location of all system equipment installed or in use in the
county and outside of a municipality, exclusive of subscriber service drops;
      (3)   Records of outages, indicating date, duration, area and the
estimated number of subscribers affected, type of outage and cause;
      (4)   Records of service calls for repair and maintenance indicating the
date and time of the service call, the date of acknowledgment and date and time
service was scheduled (if it was scheduled), and the date and time service was
provided, and (if different) the date and time the problem was solved;
      (5)   Records of installation/reconnection and requests for service
extension, indicating date of request, date of acknowledgment and the date and
time service was extended;
      (6)   A public file showing its plan and timetable for any construction
regarding the cable system; and
      (7)   All rules, regulations, terms and conditions adopted for conduct of
franchisee’s business.
   (B)   The county may request the franchisee to provide such records and may
require retention of additional information, records and documents from time to
time, as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any
of the rights, functions or duties of the county in connection with this
chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.103) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.114 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION.
   (A)   A franchise may require specific performance review sessions. The
County Board may, at its discretion, hold additional performance evaluation
sessions, but not more frequently than once every three years except as
otherwise agreed to by the franchisee. All such evaluation sessions shall be
open to the public, and announced in a newspaper of general circulation. The
franchisee shall be notified by mail.
   (B)   Topics that may be discussed at any evaluation session may include,
but are not limited to, system performance and construction, franchisee
compliance with this chapter and a franchise agreement, customer service and
complaint response, subscriber privacy, services provided, programming offered,
service rate structures, franchise fees, penalties, free or discounted
services, applications of new technologies, judicial and FCC filings, and line
extensions.
   (C)   During the review and evaluation by the county, a franchisee shall
fully cooperate with the county and shall promptly provide such information and
documents as the county may need to reasonably perform its review.
(1993 Code, § 72.104) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.115 VOLUMINOUS MATERIALS.
   If any books, records, maps or plans or other requested documents are too
voluminous, or for security reasons cannot be moved, then a franchisee may
request that the inspection take place at some other location outside the
county, provided that the franchisee must pay all reasonable travel expenses
incurred by the county in inspecting those documents or having those documents
inspected by its designee. Any payments made by the franchisee hereunder are
not a franchise fee and fall within one or more of the exceptions in 47 U.S.C.
§ 542(g)(2).
(1993 Code, § 72.105) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.116 RETENTION OF RECORDS; RELATION TO PRIVACY RIGHTS.
   Each franchisee shall take all steps required, if any, to ensure that it is
able to provide the county all information which must be provided or may be
reasonably requested under this chapter or a franchise agreement, including by
providing appropriate subscriber privacy notices. Nothing in this section shall
be read to require a franchisee to violate 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(1993 Code, § 72.106) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
CONSUMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW
§ 72.130 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Adoption. The regulations of 220 ILCS 5/22-501 are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the cable or video providers offering services
within the county’s boundaries.
   (B)   Amendments. Any amendment to the Cable and Video Customer Protection
Law is incorporated into this subchapter by reference and shall be applicable
to cable or video providers offering services within the county’s boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by the
county shall not be incorporated into this subchapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the county.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 72.131 ENFORCEMENT.
   The county does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the Cable and Video
Protection Law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
county.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 72.132 PENALTIES.
   (A)   The county, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1), does hereby provide
for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the Cable and Video
Protection Law by cable or video providers in addition to the penalties
provided in the law.
   (B)   MATERIAL BREACH means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   (C)   The county shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
   (D)   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (C) above.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.133 CUSTOMER CREDITS.
   The county hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 ILCS 5/22-501
(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing
cycle following the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The
cable or video provider is responsible for providing the credits and the
customer is under no obligation to request the credit.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
RATE REGULATION
§ 72.145 SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT RATES.
   The county reserves the right to regulate service and equipment rates to the
maximum degree permitted by applicable state and federal law. Each franchisee
shall comply with all such regulation provisions that the county may adopt, and
all federal laws regarding rates. Failure to comply shall constitute a material
violation of a franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.130) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
CABLE VIDEO SERVICE FEE
§ 72.160 CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Imposition of fee. A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing
cable service or video service in the unincorporated area of the county,
whether by franchise agreement or state license.
   (B)   Amount of fee. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be 5% of the
holder’s gross revenues.
   (C)   Notice to the county. The holder shall notify the county at least ten
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the county.
   (D)   Holder’s liability. The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the county. The holder’s liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following 30 days after receipt of the
ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
(Ord. 2013-4) shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder’s application notice sent pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6) to the
county.
   (E)   Payment date. The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, 45 days after the close of the calendar quarter. If mailed,
the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each payment shall
include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of the fee.
   (F)   Credit for other payments. An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/21-301(c) with credit
for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may deduct the amount of such
credit from the fees that operator owes under §
72.161.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 72.161 APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES.
   All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made
pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 72.162 NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the county, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state-issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of any other tax. A
state-issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the holder with
respect to payment of the local unit of government’s 911 or E911 fees, taxes or
charges.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 72.163 AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER.
   (A)   Audit requirement. The county will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the county imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder’s books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
county. If all local franchises between the county and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the county pursuant
to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq. No
acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that the
amounts are correct.
   (B)   Additional payments. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within 30 days after the county’s submission of an invoice for the sum.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 72.164 LATE PAYMENTS.
   All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this county pursuant to the Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of
Rights Act, 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-20-2013)
INSURANCE; SURETY; INDEMNIFICATION
§ 72.175 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A franchisee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of a franchise
specifically agrees that it will maintain, throughout the entire length of the
franchise period, at least the following liability insurance coverage insuring
the county and the franchisee: worker’s compensation and employer liability
insurance to meet all requirements of state law and comprehensive general
liability insurance with respect to the construction, operation and maintenance
of the cable system, and the conduct of the franchisee’s business in the
county, in the minimum amounts of:
      (1)   One million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident;
      (2)   Five million dollars for personal bodily injury or death resulting
from any one accident; and
      (3)   Two million dollars for all other types of liability.
   (B)   These insurance requirements shall not be construed to limit the
liability of a franchisee for damages under any franchise issued hereunder.
(1993 Code, § 72.155) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.176 QUALIFICATIONS OF SURETIES.
   All insurance policies shall be with sureties qualified to do business in
the state, with an B+7 or better rating of insurance by Best’s Key Rating
Guide, Property/Casualty Edition and in a form approved by the county.
(1993 Code, § 72.156) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.177 POLICIES AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW.
   All insurance policies shall be available for review by the county, and a
franchisee shall keep on file with the county certificates of insurance.
(1993 Code, § 72.157) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.178 ADDITIONAL INSUREDS; PRIOR NOTICE OF POLICY CANCELLATION.
   All general liability insurance policies shall name the county, its
officers, boards, board members, commissions, commissioners, agents and
employees as additional insureds and shall further provide that any
cancellation or reduction in coverage shall not be effective unless 30-days’
prior written notice thereof has been given to the County Clerk. A franchisee
shall not cancel any required insurance policy without submission of proof that
the franchisee has obtained alternative insurance reasonably satisfactory to
the County Board which complies with this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 72.158) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.179 FAILURE CONSTITUTES MATERIAL VIOLATION.
   Failure to comply with the insurance requirements set forth in this section
shall constitute a material violation of a franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.159) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.180 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, indemnify, hold
harmless and defend the county, its officials, boards, board members,
commissions, commissioners, agents and employees, against any and all claims,
suits, causes of action, proceedings and judgments for damages or equitable
relief arising out of the construction, maintenance or operation of its cable
system; copyright infringements or a failure by the franchisee to secure
consents from the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of programs to
be delivered by the cable system; the conduct of the franchisee’s business in
the county; or in any way arising out of the granting of a franchise or a
franchisee’s enjoyment or exercise of a franchise granted hereunder, regardless
of whether the act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or a franchise agreement.
   (B)   Specifically, but not by way of limitation on the scope of division
(A) of this section, a franchisee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully
indemnify, defend and hold harmless the county, and in their capacity as such,
the officers, agents and employees thereof, from and against any and all
claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments for damages or otherwise
subject to § 638 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 558, arising out of or alleged
to arise out of the installation, construction, operation or maintenance of its
system, including, but not limited to, any claim against the franchisee for
invasion of the right of privacy, defamation of any person or the violation or
infringement of any copyright, trade mark, trade name, service mark or patent,
or of any other similar right of any person. This indemnity does not apply to
programming carried on any channel set aside for public, educational or
government use, or channels leased pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 532, unless the
franchisee was in any respect engaged in determining the editorial content of
the program, or prescreened the programming for the purported purpose of
banning or regulating indecent or obscene programming.
   (C)   The indemnity provision includes, but is not limited to, the county’s
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in defending against any such claim, suit
or proceeding prior to franchisee assuming such defense. The county shall
notify a franchisee of claims and suits as soon as practicable, but failure to
give such notice shall not relieve a franchisee of its obligations hereunder.
Once a franchisee assumes such defense, the county may at its option continue
to participate in the defense at its own expense.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter,
the county shall not be so indemnified or reimbursed in relation to any amounts
attributable to the county’s own negligence, willful misconduct, intentional or
criminal acts, including in the performance of its obligations under this
chapter or a franchise agreement.
(1993 Code, § 72.160) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES AND REMEDIES
§ 72.195 SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   Prior to a franchise becoming effective and on each anniversary date
thereafter during the franchise term including the date of termination, the
franchisee shall post with the County Clerk sufficient funds to serve as a cash
security deposit to be used as a security fund to ensure the franchisee’s
faithful performance of and compliance with all provisions of this chapter, the
franchise agreement and other applicable law and compliance with all orders,
permits and directions of the county, and the payment by the franchisee of any
claims, liens, fees or taxes due the county which arise by reason of the
construction, operation or maintenance of the system. The amount of the
security fund on deposit shall be equal to 3% of the franchisee’s projected
annual gross revenues for the upcoming year, or in the instance of the final
deposit, 3% of the actual gross revenues for the preceding year.
   (B)   In lieu of a cash security fund, a franchisee may file and maintain
with the County Clerk an irrevocable letter of credit with a surety acceptable
to the county in the amount specified in division (A) of this section to serve
the same purposes as set forth therein. Said letter of credit shall remain in
effect for the full term of the franchise plus an additional six months
thereafter, or longer if there is any outstanding obligation or default on the
part of the franchisee, as determined by the County Board. The franchisee and
its surety shall be jointly and severally liable under the terms of the letter
of credit for the franchisee’s failure to ensure its faithful performance of
and compliance with all provisions of this chapter, the franchise agreement and
other applicable law, and compliance with all orders, permits and directions of
the county, and the payment by the franchisee of any claims, liens, fees or
taxes due the county which arise by reason of the construction, operation or
maintenance of the system. The letter of credit shall provide for 30 days’
prior written notice to the county of any intention on the part of the
franchisee to cancel, fail to renew or otherwise materially alter its terms.
Neither the filing of a letter of credit with the county, nor the receipt of
any damages recovered by the county thereunder, shall be construed to excuse
unfaithful performance by the franchisee or limit the liability of the
franchisee under the terms of its franchise for damages, either to the full
amount of the letter of credit or otherwise.
   (C)   The rights reserved to the county with respect to the security fund
are in addition to all other rights of the county, whether reserved by this
chapter or authorized by other law or a franchise agreement, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of a right with respect to such security fund or letter
of credit will affect any other right the county may have.
   (D)   The following procedures shall apply to drawing on the security fund
and letter of credit.
      (1)   If the franchisee fails to make timely payment to the county of any
amount due as a result of a franchise, fails to make timely payment to the
county of any amounts due under a franchise agreement or applicable law, fails
to make timely payment to the county of any taxes due, or fails to compensate
the county within ten days of written notification that such compensation is
due for any damages, costs or expenses the county suffers or incurs by reason
of any act or omission of the franchisee in connection with its franchise
agreement or the enforcement of its franchise agreement, the county may
withdraw the amount thereof, with interest and any penalties, from the security
fund or from funds available under the letter of credit.
      (2)   Within three days of a withdrawal from the security fund or under
the letter of credit, the county shall mail, by certified mail, return receipt
requested, written notification of the amount, date and purpose of such
withdrawal to the franchisee.
      (3)   If at the time of a withdrawal from the security fund and under the
letter of credit by the county, the amounts available are insufficient to
provide the total payment towards which the withdrawal is directed, the balance
of such payment shall continue as the obligation of the franchisee to the
county until it is paid.
      (4)   No later than 30 days after mailing of notification to the
franchisee by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a withdrawal under
the security fund or letter of credit, the franchisee shall deliver to the
county for deposit in the security fund an amount equal to the amount so
withdrawn or shall restore the letter of credit. Failure to make timely
delivery of such amount to the county or to restore the letter of credit shall
constitute a material violation of the franchise.
      (5)   Upon termination of the franchise under conditions other than those
stipulating forfeiture of the security fund, the balance then remaining in the
security fund shall be withdrawn by the county and paid to the franchisee
within six months of such termination, provided that there is then no
outstanding obligation or default on the part of the franchisee.
   (E)   In addition to or in lieu of a security fund or letter of credit, a
franchise may require such guarantees as the county deems to be in the public
interest.
(1993 Code, § 72.170) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.196 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Prior to any cable system construction, upgrade or other such work in
the public rights-of-way, a franchisee shall establish in the county’s favor a
performance bond to insure the franchisee’s faithful performance of the
construction, upgrade or other work. The amount of such performance bond shall
be equal to 10% of the total cost of the work unless otherwise specified in the
franchise agreement.
   (B)   In the event a franchisee subject to such a performance bond fails to
complete the cable system construction, upgrade or other work in the public
rights-of-way in a safe, timely and competent manner, after notice and a
reasonable opportunity to cure, there shall be recoverable, jointly and
severally from the principal and surety of the bond, any damages or loss
suffered by the county as a result, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification or cost of removal or abandonment of any property
of the franchisee, or the cost of completing or repairing the system
construction, upgrade or other work in the public rights-of-way, plus a
reasonable allowance for attorneys’ fees, up to the full amount of the bond.
The county may also recover against the bond any amount recoverable against a
security fund where such amount exceeds that available under a security fund.
   (C)   Upon completion of the system construction, upgrade or other such work
in the public rights-of-way and payment of all construction obligations of the
cable system to the satisfaction of the County Board, the County Board shall
eliminate the bond after a time appropriate to determine whether the work
performed was satisfactory, which time shall be established considering the
nature of the work performed.
   (D)   The performance bond shall be issued by a surety with an B+7 or better
rating of insurance in Best’s Key Rating Guide, Property/Casualty Edition;
shall be subject to the approval of the County Attorney; and shall contain the
following endorsement:
      “This bond may not be cancelled, or allowed to lapse, until 60 days after
receipt by the county, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice from the issuer of the bond of intent to cancel or not to
renew.”
(1993 Code, § 72.171) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.197 FAILURE CONSTITUTES MATERIAL VIOLATION.
   Failure to maintain a required security fund, letter of credit or
performance bond shall constitute a material violation of a franchise.
(1993 Code, § 72.172) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.198 REMEDIES.
   In addition to any other remedies available at law or equity, the county may
apply any one or a combination of the following remedies in the event a
franchisee violates this chapter, its franchise agreement, other applicable
ordinances, or applicable state or federal law:
   (A)   Revoke the franchise or shorten the term pursuant to the procedures
specified in this chapter;
   (B)   Impose penalties available under §
72.999 and other applicable state and local laws for violation of county
ordinances;
   (C)   In addition to or instead of any other remedy, seek legal or equitable
relief from any court of competent jurisdiction; and
   (D)   Apply any remedy provided for in a franchise agreement, including
enforcing provisions, if any.
(1993 Code, § 72.173) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.199 SHORTENING, REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county shall have the right to shorten the term of a franchise to
a term not less than 31 months from the date of the action shortening the
franchise term, or to revoke the franchise, for a franchisee’s substantial and
ongoing failure to construct, operate or maintain the cable system as required
by this chapter or a franchise agreement; for defrauding or attempting to
defraud the county or subscribers; if the franchisee is declared bankrupt; or
for any other substantial and ongoing material violation of this chapter or
substantial and ongoing material violation of a franchise agreement. To invoke
the provisions of this section, the County Board shall give the franchisee
written notice of such intent. If within 30 calendar days following such
written notice from the county to the franchisee, the franchisee has not
completed corrective action or corrective action is not being actively and
expeditiously pursued to the satisfaction of the County Board, the county may
give written notice to the franchisee of its decision to commence a proceeding
to consider shortening the term of or revoking the franchise, stating its
reasons; provided that no opportunity to cure shall be afforded in the event
the franchisee is declared bankrupt. Revocation for bankruptcy shall be
governed by §
72.200(C).
   (B)   Prior to shortening the term of or revoking a franchise, the County
Board shall hold a public hearing, after giving at least 15 calendar days’
notice by posting and publication, at which time the franchisee and the public
shall be given an opportunity to be heard. Following the public hearing, the
County Board may determine whether to shorten the franchise term or to revoke
the franchise based on the information presented at the hearing, and other
information of record. If the County Board determines to shorten a franchise
term or revoke a franchise, it shall make such decision by ordinance setting
forth the reasons for its decision. The county may make such decision
conditional on a franchisee’s failure to resolve outstanding problems or take
appropriate steps to resolve such problems within a specific period of time. A
copy of such decision shall be provided to the franchisee.
   (C)   (1)   Any franchise may, at the option of the County Board following a
public hearing, be revoked by ordinance 120 calendar days after an assignment
for the benefit of creditors or the appointment of a receiver or trustee to
take over the business of the franchisee, whether in a receivership,
reorganization, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, or other
action or proceeding, unless within that 120-day period:
         (a)   Such assignment, receivership or trusteeship has been vacated;
or
         (b)   Such assignee, receiver or trustee has fully complied with the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the existing franchise agreement and
has executed an agreement, approved by a court of competent jurisdiction,
assuming and agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of this chapter
and the existing franchise agreement.
      (2)   In the event of foreclosure or other judicial sale of a material
portion of the facilities, equipment or property of a franchisee (other than
pursuant to a pledge or mortgage which qualified as an exception to the
definition of a “franchise transfer” and after which the franchise transfer was
ultimately approved), the County Board may revoke the franchise, following a
public hearing before the County Board, by serving notice on the franchisee and
the successful bidder, in which event the franchise and all rights and
privileges of the franchise will be revoked and will terminate 30 calendar days
after serving such notice, unless:
         (a)   The County Board has approved the franchise transfer; and
         (b)   The successful bidder has covenanted and agreed with the county
to assume and be bound by the terms and conditions of the franchise agreement
and this chapter.
   (D)   If the County Board revokes a franchise, if a franchise expires, or if
for any other reason a franchisee abandons, terminates or fails to operate or
maintain service to its subscribers after notice and reasonable opportunity to
cure of at least 30 days, the following procedures and rights are effective.
      (1)   The County Board may require the former franchisee to remove its
facilities and equipment at the former franchisee’s expense. If the former
franchisee fails to do so within a reasonable period of time, the County Board
may have the removal done at the former franchisee’s or surety’s expense. In
removing its plant, structures and equipment, the franchisee shall refill, at
its own expense, any excavation that shall be made by it and shall leave all
public ways and places in as good condition as prevailed prior to the
franchisee’s removal of its equipment and appliances without affecting the
electrical or telephone cable wires, or attachments. The county shall inspect
and approve the condition of the public ways and public places, and cables,
wires, attachments and poles after removal. The liability, indemnity and
insurance as provided herein shall continue in full force and effect during the
period of removal and until full compliance by the franchisee with the terms
and conditions of this division (D) and this chapter. In the event of a failure
by the franchisee to complete any such work or any other work required by
county law or ordinance within the time as may be established and to the
reasonable satisfaction of the county, the county may cause such work to be
done and the franchisee shall reimburse the county the reasonable cost thereof
within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of such costs.
      (2)   At the expiration of the term for which any franchise is granted
(if renewal is either not sought or denied) the county, at its election, shall
have the right to purchase and take over all or any part of a cable system
located within the county and outside of a municipality upon the payment to the
franchisee of a sum equal to the fair market value of the system or the part
taken (based on system value as a going concern). In the event of revocation,
as provided for in this chapter, the county at its election, shall have the
right to purchase and take over all or any part of a cable system located
within the county and outside of a municipality upon payment to franchisee of a
sum equal to an equitable price for the system or the part taken. If the county
elects to purchase only a part of the system, the fair market value shall
include both the fair market value of the part purchased together with the
diminution in value of the part not purchased. The price for the cable system
or the part taken, shall not include, and the franchisee shall not receive,
anything for the value allocated to the franchise itself unless such valuation
is now or subsequently provided for by the Cable Act or in the franchise
itself. Upon the exercise of the option by the county and its service of an
official notice of such action upon the franchisee, the franchisee shall
immediately transfer to the county possession and title to all of the purchased
facilities and property, real and personal, of the cable system, with any
existing liens and encumbrances (provided the county can require application of
purchase price to such liens and encumbrances at closing); and the franchisees
shall execute such warranty deeds or other instruments of conveyance to the
county as shall be reasonably necessary for this purpose. Each contract entered
into by franchisee with reference to its operations under the franchise shall
be subject to the exercise of this option by the county.
      (3)   If a cable system is abandoned by a franchisee during the franchise
term, or if the franchisee fails to operate its system in accordance with this
chapter during any transition period, or the franchisee otherwise terminates
the franchise, upon decision of the County Board made after providing the
franchisee reasonable notice of at least 30 days and an opportunity to be
heard, the ownership of all portions of the cable system in public rights-of-
way shall revert to the county and the county may sell, assign or transfer all
or part of the assets of the system, or the County Board, at its option, may
operate the system, designate another entity to operate the system temporarily
until the franchisee restores service under conditions acceptable to the county
or until the franchise is revoked and a new franchisee selected by the county
is providing service, seek an injunction requiring the franchisee to continue
operations, and/or seek to recover all damages sustained as a result of such
abandonment or failure to operate. A franchisee retains all rights to contest
such actions and all rights to compensation provided by law.
         (a)   A franchisee shall be deemed to have abandoned its system, or
failed to operate its system during any transition period, if:
            1.   The franchisee fails to provide cable service in accordance
with its franchise over a substantial portion of the cable system for 96
consecutive hours, unless the County Board authorizes a longer interruption of
service in writing; or
            2.   The franchisee, for any period, willfully and without cause
refuses to provide cable service in accordance with its franchise over a
substantial portion of the cable system.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, where the county
has issued a franchise requiring the completion of construction, system upgrade
or other specific obligation by a specified date, failure of the franchisee to
complete such construction or upgrade, or to comply with such other specific
obligations as may be required, within such time limits, as same shall be
extended by the County Board for good cause shown by the franchisee, will
result in the forfeiture of the franchise upon decision of the County Board
made after providing the franchisee with reasonable notice of at least 30 days
and an opportunity to be heard.
(1993 Code, § 72.174) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.200 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   All remedies under this chapter and the franchise agreement are cumulative
unless otherwise expressly stated. The exercise of one remedy shall not
foreclose use of another, nor shall the exercise of a remedy or the payment of
penalties relieve a franchisee of its obligations to comply with its franchise.
Remedies may be used alone or in combination as permitted by law; in addition,
the county may exercise any rights it has at law or equity.
(1993 Code, § 72.175) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
§ 72.201 RELATION TO INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Recovery by the county of any amounts under insurance, a performance bond, a
security fund or letter of credit, or otherwise does not limit a franchisee’s
duty to indemnify the county in any way; nor shall such recovery relieve a
franchisee of its obligations under a franchise, limit the amounts owed to the
county, or in any respect prevent the county from exercising any other right or
remedy it may have.
(1993 Code, § 72.176) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
§ 72.215 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A franchisee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, users, programmers or residents or businesses
in the county on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or
age.
   (B)   A franchisee shall not unreasonably discriminate among similarly
situated persons or take any retaliatory action against a person because of
that person’s exercise of any right it may have under federal, state or local
law, nor may the franchisee require a person to waive such rights as a
condition of providing service.
   (C)   A franchisee shall not deny access to cable service or levy different
rates and charges on any group of potential residential cable subscribers
because of the income of the residents of the local area in which such group
resides.
   (D)   A franchisee is prohibited from unreasonably discriminating in its
rates or charges or from granting undue preferences to any subscriber,
potential subscriber, or group of subscribers or potential subscribers;
provided, however, that a franchisee may offer temporary, bona fide promotional
discounts in order to attract or maintain subscribers, so long as such
discounts are offered on a non-discriminatory basis to similar classes of
subscribers throughout the portion of the county outside of a municipality; and
a franchisee may offer reasonable discounts for senior citizens or the
economically disadvantaged, discounts or customer specific pricing for bulk
rate customers, and such other discounts as it is expressly entitled to provide
under federal law, if such discounts are applied in a uniform and consistent
manner. A franchisee shall comply at all times with all applicable federal,
state and local laws, and all executive and administrative orders relating to
non-discrimination.
(1993 Code, § 72.185) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.216 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   A franchisee shall not refuse to employ, discharge from employment or
discriminate against any person in compensation or in terms, conditions or
privileges of employment because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex
or age. A franchisee shall comply with all federal, state and local laws and
regulations governing equal employment opportunities, as the same may be from
time to time amended, including but not limited to 47 U.S.C. § 554.
(1993 Code, § 72.186) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.217 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   A franchisee shall at all times abide by and protect the privacy of all
subscribers pursuant to the provisions of § 631 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. §
551. A franchisee shall not condition subscriber service on the subscriber’s
grant of permission to disclose information which, pursuant to federal or state
law, cannot be disclosed without the subscriber’s explicit consent.
(1993 Code, § 72.187) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. For violation of provisions of this chapter, subject to
judicial procedures, penalties shall be chargeable to the franchisee as
follows:
      (1)   For purportedly transferring the franchise without approval: $750
per day for each violation for each day the violation continues;
      (2)   For violation of customer service standards: $100 per violation for
each day the violation continues; and
      (3)   For all other material violations for which actual damages may not
be ascertainable: $750 per day for each violation for each day the violation
continues.
   (B)    Consumer service and privacy protection law. The monetary penalties
for violation of §§
72.130 through
72.133 shall apply on a competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed $750
for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed $25,000 for each
occurrence of a material breach per customer.
(1993 Code, § 72.999) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996; Ord. 2013-04, passed 3-
20-2013)
APPENDIX A: GLOSSARY OF FEDERAL AND STATE DEFINITIONS
Section
§ 1 GLOSSARY OF TERMS.
   ACTIVATED CHANNEL. Those channels engineered at the headend of a cable
system for the provision of services generally available to residential
subscribers of the cable system, regardless of whether such services actually
are provided, including any channel designated for public, educational or
governmental use.
   AFFILIATE. A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned
or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with, another person.
For purposes of this definition, the term OWN means to own an equity interest
(or the equivalent thereof) of more than 10%.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals.
   CABLE CHANNEL or CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel (as television channel is defined by the Federal
Communications Commission by regulation).
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons who provides cable service
over a cable system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a
significant interest in such cable system, or who otherwise controls or is
responsible for, through any arrangement, the management and operation of such
a cable system.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming,
or other programming service and subscriber interaction, if any, which is
required for the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service.
   CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is
designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is
provided to multiple subscribers within a community, but such term does not
include a facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one
or more television broadcast stations; a facility that serves subscribers
without using any public right-of-way; a facility of a common carrier which is
subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of subchapter II of Chapter 5
of Title 47 of the United States Code, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system (other than for purposes of § 541(c) of Title 47 of
the United States Code) to the extent such facility is used in the transmission
of video programming directly to subscribers unless the extent of such use is
solely to provide interactive on-demand services; an open video system that
complies with § 653 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996; or any facilities of
any electric utility used solely for operating its electric utility system.
CABLE SYSTEM also means a “community antenna television system” as defined in
55 ILCS 5/5-1095.
   COMMON CARRIER. Any person engaged as a common carrier for hire, in
interstate or foreign communications by wire or radio or in interstate or
foreign radio transmission of energy, except where reference is made to common
carriers not subject to this chapter; but a person engaged in radio
broadcasting shall not, insofar as such person is so engaged, be deemed a
COMMON CARRIER.
   FEDERAL AGENCY. Any agency of the United States, including the Federal
Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof (including a renewal
of an authorization which has been granted subject to 47 U.S.C. § 546), issued
by a franchising authority, whether such authorization is designated as a
franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or
otherwise, which authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system.
   INTERACTIVE ON-DEMAND SERVICES. A service providing video programming to
subscribers over switched network on an on-demand, point-to-point basis, but
does not include services providing video programming prescheduled by the
programming provider.
   MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAMMING DISTRIBUTOR. A person such as, but not
limited to, a cable operator, multichannel multipoint distribution service, a
direct broadcast satellite service or a television receive-only satellite
program distributor, who makes available for purchase, by subscribers or
customers, multiple channels of video programming.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a cable operator makes available
to all subscribers generally.
   PUBLIC EDUCATION OR GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS FACILITIES. Channel capacity
designated for public, educational or governmental use; and facilities and
equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
   RADIO COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission by radio of writing, signs, signals,
pictures and sounds of all kinds, including all instrumentalities, facilities,
apparatus and services (among other things, the receipt, forwarding and
delivery of communications) incidental to such transmission.
(1993 Code, Ch. 72, App.) (Ord. 96-12, passed 10-16-1996)
CHAPTER 73: EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Application; fees
   
73.04   Alarm identification number
   
73.05   Code conformance required
   
73.06   Inspections
   
73.07   Transmissions to Sheriff’s Department
   
73.08   Alarm reporting
   
73.09   Responsibility
   
73.10   False alarms
   
73.11   Order to disconnect
   
73.12   Termination of alarm registration
   
73.13   Automatic dialing devices
   
73.14   Noise limits
   
73.15   Identification cards
   
73.16   Alarm alteration disclosure
   
73.17   Contracts for sale
   
73.18   Contracts for purchase
   
73.19   Alarm business information disclosure
   
73.20   County liability
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operation of emergency alarm
systems (including burglary, robbery and vandalism) in structures within the
unincorporated areas of the county. It is anticipated that these regulations
will enhance the ability of the Sheriff’s Department to increase the present
level of protection to persons and property.
(1993 Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM AGENT. Any person who is employed by an alarm business, either
directly or indirectly, whose duties include any of the following: selling,
maintaining, leasing, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing in any building, structure or facility any alarm system.
   ALARM IDENTIFICATION NUMBER. A number issued to an alarm subscriber by the
County Sheriff’s Department for the purpose of identifying the alarm system for
dispatching and record keeping purposes.
   ALARM SUBSCRIBER. Any person that leases, contracts for, buys or otherwise
obtains and operates an alarm system for the purpose of obtaining response to
the alarm from the police, and on whose premises an alarm system is maintained,
excluding audible alarms on motor vehicles.
   ALARM SYSTEMS. Burglary or detection systems that are designed to
communicate to the Sheriff’s Department or a commercial alarm company to alert
the Sheriff’s Department of danger to persons or property.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES. An alarm system, which automatically sends over
the telephone switching network, a prerecorded voice message or coded signal
indicating the existence of an unlawful act to which a police response is
required.
   BURGLARY ALARM SYSTEM. Any device which is used for the detection of
burglary or attempted burglary, or for alerting others of the commission of a
burglary within a building, structure, facility or enclosure and which emits a
sound or transmits a signal or message when activated for the purpose of
deterring the intruder or notifying another person of the happening, or both.
   BURGLARY DETECTION SYSTEM. Any device designed to detect an unauthorized
entry into a residence or place of business and transmit an alarm to the
Sheriff’s Department or a commercial alarm company.
   BUSINESS. Any business engaged in any of the activities of selling,
maintaining, replacing, moving, monitoring, responding to a burglary alarm or
holdup alarm system, or causing any of these activities to take place.
   EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEM. Any other device not included above, designed to
alert the Sheriff’s Department of danger to persons or property.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of a burglary or robbery alarm, whereby the
police are summoned to a location, and neither of these crimes is occurring nor
is there any evidence of these crimes having occurred, or having been
attempted. Alarms due to severe weather conditions, due to vandalism,
destruction of property, or attributable to telephone line faults, as so
determined by the Sheriff’s Department, shall not be counted as FALSE ALARMS
under this chapter.
   LOCAL ALARM. A device which, when activated, emits a sound of limited
duration for the purpose of obtaining police response to the alarm.
   MONITORED ALARM. A device used for the detection of unauthorized entry in
premises, and which, when activated, generates an inaudible signal to a
monitoring station. A MONITORED ALARM may also generate an audible sound on the
premises.
   PANIC ALARM. A device used for residential applications only with a
predetermined type of alarm transmission.
   ROBBERY ALARM SYSTEM. Any device which protects a business and is designed
or used for alerting others of the commission of a robbery or attempted robbery
within a building, structure, facility or both, and which emits a sound or
transmits a signal or message when activated for the purpose of deterring the
intruder or notifying another person of the happening, or both.
   STRUCTURE. Any building built for support, shelter or enclosure of persons
or property.
   TELEPHONE COMPANY. The utility that furnishes telephone service to the
county.
(1993 Code, § 73.02) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984; Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.03 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Prior to the operation of any alarm system, application on an approved
form shall be submitted for review and approval by the Sheriff.
   (B)   An application fee shall accompany the application. All work done
concerning installation shall be approved as conforming to the county zoning
and building codes.
(1993 Code, § 73.03) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 ALARM IDENTIFICATION NUMBER.
   (A)   Prior to reporting any alarm sounding to the Sheriff’s Department, an
alarm identification number for each separate system must be obtained by the
subscriber from the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   Application for the alarm identification number by the alarm
subscriber shall be made to the Sheriff in a manner and form prescribed by that
office.
   (C)   The information contained in the application for the alarm
identification number shall be confidential and securely maintained by the
County Sheriff’s Department and restricted to use in the implementation and
enforcement of this chapter and shall not be subject to public inspection.
   (D)   Panic alarms will be identified as a separate alarm system and are
subject to application for registration as set out in this chapter.
   (E)   All users of local alarms must have affixed to the premises, a sticker
bearing the alarm identification number which is issued by the County Sheriff’s
Department. The sticker must be affixed to a window or door on or near the main
entrance in a manner easily visible to a police officer. Failure to display
this identification sticker shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   The identification number which is assigned to an alarm system at a
specific location shall remain active for the duration of the existence of the
alarm system. If the occupant of a business or residence which houses a
lawfully registered alarm system should change, the new occupant must notify
the Sheriff’s Department in writing. This notice should contain, if a business,
the new business name, phone number, new owner or person responsible for the
alarm’s operation and his or her home phone number and two people to be
contacted in an emergency. If a residence, the new occupant’s name, phone
number, person responsible for the alarm’s operation (if not the owner) and his
or her emergency phone number and two people to be contacted in an emergency.
This notice must be submitted within 30 days of new occupancy.
(1993 Code, § 73.04) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.05 CODE CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   Any alarm system installed in the unincorporated areas of the county shall
conform, where applicable, to state and local codes. No device or equipment not
approved and tested by a recognized, independent testing agency will be
accepted.
(1993 Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon completion of installation, the system shall be tested by the
installer to ensure that the system operates in conformance to the
specifications as approved.
   (B)   Subsequent tests may be required to ensure the systems are still
operational and still conform to specifications. If such tests are required,
the results of those tests shall be submitted to the Sheriff’s Department.
(1993 Code, § 73.06) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 TRANSMISSIONS TO SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Alarm systems installed in commercial and residential buildings may
transmit alarms to the Sheriff’s Department with the approval of the Sheriff.
   (B)   The installation and maintenance thereof shall be at the expense of
the property owner. Applications for alarms to the Sheriff’s Department shall
provide for waiver and release of municipal liability.
(1993 Code, § 73.07) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984)
§ 73.08 ALARM REPORTING.
   All alarm soundings reported to the Sheriff’s Department, either directly or
indirectly or by relay, shall be done in a manner prescribed by the Sheriff.
(1993 Code, § 73.08) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm subscriber to:
   (A)   Maintain premises containing an alarm system in a manner that ensures
proper operation of the alarm system;
   (B)   Maintain the alarm system in a manner that will minimize false alarm
notification;
   (C)   Not manually activate an alarm for any reason other than the
occurrence of an event the alarm system was intended to report; and
   (D)   Instruct all personnel who are authorized to place the system or
device into operation of the appropriate method of operation.
(1993 Code, § 73.09) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.10 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   False alarms include those caused by:
      (1)   Mistake or error by any person, firm or corporation or other entity
or agent thereof, owning or operating any dwelling, building or place which
results in the activation of any burglary, robbery or panic alarm when no
emergency exists;
      (2)   Malfunction of any burglary, robbery or panic alarm caused by a
flaw in the normal operation, design, installation, maintenance of the system,
by faulty equipment, or by a change in the environment or premises upon or
within which the alarm system is operating; and
      (3)   Intentional activation of an alarm system when no burglary, robbery
or other emergency exists.
   (B)   An alarm will not be considered a false alarm if it is determined that
the alarm was caused by:
      (1)   Natural or human-made catastrophe, or an act of God. Such events
include tornadoes, earthquakes or other violent conditions;
      (2)   Vandalism resulting in physical damage to the premises;
      (3)   Telephone line or power line outages;
      (4)   Attempted entry of a location resulting in visible, physical or
other damage or other indications which substantiate the occurrence of said
incident; and
      (5)   The crimes of burglary or robbery as defined by statute.
(1993 Code, § 73.10) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.11 ORDER TO DISCONNECT.
   An order to disconnect an alarm system may be issued by the Sheriff if it is
determined the alarm’s operation is a nuisance to the community or to the
Sheriff’s Department.
(1993 Code, § 73.11) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.12 TERMINATION OF ALARM REGISTRATION.
   (A)   False alarms, due to carelessness or other causes, are received by the
Sheriff’s Department and require a response by that Department, which results
in unnecessary expense to the county and increases the risk of injury to
responding personnel or damage to property.
      (1)   The owner of any alarm system connected to the Sheriff’s Department
which actuates an excessive number of false alarms will, after notification by
the Sheriff, take the necessary steps to correct the situation.
      (2)   If the excessive false alarm condition is not corrected after the
issuance of a written warning, the Sheriff may, at his or her discretion, order
the alarm disconnected within 30 days.
   (B)   Circumstances that may result in termination include:
      (1)   Removal of alarm or discontinuance of alarm service;
      (2)   Failure of subscriber to pay outstanding fines owed to the county
for false alarms accrued during the 12-month period; and
      (3)   Failure of subscriber to appear in court after being lawfully
summoned.
(1993 Code, § 73.12) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES.
   No alarm identification number will be issued for automatic dialing devices
that terminate on Sheriff’s Department telephones. Any alarm user presently
using such a device must remove, alter, modify, reprogram or change such
device. The Sheriff’s Department will notify person(s) presently owning such
devices of these requirements by mail. Persons so notified will have 90 days
from the effective date of this chapter to comply.
(1993 Code, § 73.13) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.14 NOISE LIMITS.
   All bells, sirens or other noise sources that sound in the event of a
residential alarm must stop automatically within 15 minutes after the alarm has
been activated. Commercial alarms must stop within 30 minutes after the alarm
has been activated.
(1993 Code, § 73.14) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.15 IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, any persons engaging in the
alarm business in the county shall be responsible for issuing each alarm agent
a valid identification card, as hereinafter set forth, and each alarm agent is
required to maintain on his or her person a valid identification card while
acting in the scope of his or her employment and to produce the identification
card upon request of any customer, prospective customer or lawful authority.
   (B)   The alarm identification card must contain, as a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   Full face photo, head size, not less than one inch vertical (to be
supplied by applicant);
      (2)   Name, height, weight, date of birth;
      (3)   Name of employing company and capacity with that company; and
      (4)   Signature of holder.
   (C)   An alarm agent identification card shall be valid for a period of two
years from the date of issuance or until the agent terminates employment with
the alarm company, if less than two years.
(1993 Code, § 73.15) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.16 ALARM ALTERATION DISCLOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in the alarm business, or any
alarm agent, to adjust, alter, fix or change any alarm system or part thereof
without written disclosure to the alarm subscriber.
(1993 Code, § 73.16) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 CONTRACTS FOR SALE.
   No alarm agent or alarm business shall sell, lease or install any alarm
system without first furnishing the alarm subscriber with a written offer in
which each opening, item or area to be protected is identified and the device
to be used is described in generic terms. Upon the sale or lease of an alarm
system, the alarm agent or business shall furnish the alarm subscriber with a
form containing the following statement:
      “I the undersigned have read this offer, and fully understand what
protection this system will provide and the specific areas, openings and items
it will protect. I have received instruction on how to operate this system. I
understand that I must register this alarm with the County Sheriff’s Department
who will assign me an alarm identification number before I can operate this
system, and that misuse, neglect or other conditions that result in false
alarms will result in fines imposed against me by the county. The operation of
alarm systems is governed by the county, ordinances and violations of the
provisions of these ordinances can result in a minimum fine of not less than
$25 plus court costs and not more than $500 plus court costs and/or 30 days
imprisonment.”
(1993 Code, § 73.17) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.18 CONTRACTS FOR PURCHASE.
   An alarm subscriber shall not enter into an agreement with any person
engaged in the alarm business or alarm monitoring business including
subcontractors unless said persons are licensed by the county.
(1993 Code, § 73.18) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.19 ALARM BUSINESS INFORMATION DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the alarm business as set out in this chapter
must submit to the Sheriff’s Department the following information:
      (1)   The proper business or trade name, address and telephone number;
      (2)   All other names, addresses and phone numbers under which the
company or corporation conducts business;
      (3)   If an unincorporated association, the name of the owner and
responsible associates;
      (4)   If a corporation, the name and address of the Register Agent; and
      (5)   If a corporation, the names and positions of officers in the
corporation.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   Persons engaged solely in the manufacture or sale of the alarm
systems or components from a fixed location who do not install, maintain,
service or plan the alarm system for any location; and
      (2)   Persons engaged in the repair of alarms systems or components from
a fixed location, and who do not, either personally or through an agent, visit
the building, structure or facility in which the alarm system is installed.
(1993 Code, § 73.19) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.20 COUNTY LIABILITY.
   The Sheriff’s Department shall take every reasonable precaution to assure
that alarm notifications received are given appropriate attention and are acted
upon with dispatch. Nevertheless, neither the county nor the County Sheriff’s
Department shall be liable for any failure or neglect to respond to an alarm
sounding generated from an alarm system that is under a disconnect order or
registration revocation as imposed by the Sheriff.
(1993 Code, § 73.20) (Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be cause
for an alarm system to be disconnected from the Sheriff’s Department upon 30
days’ prior written notice.
   (B)   The following fine schedule shall apply to any false alarm resulting
in the response of the Sheriff’s Department personnel. This fine schedule shall
apply 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
      (1)   For the first 35 days after the registration of an alarm system,
the subscriber will not be charged for false alarms.
      (2)   On the thirty-first day after the registration of an alarm system,
each alarm sounding determined to be false shall be considered chargeable under
this chapter.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the third false alarm within a 12-month period, a
warning notice shall be issued to the subscriber by the Sheriff’s office.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the fourth false alarm from a residence within a
12-month period, the subscriber shall be fined $10. The subscriber shall be
fined the same amount for each additional false alarm sounding up to and
including the seventh false alarm within a 12-month period.
      (5)   Upon receipt of the eighth false alarm from a residence within a
12-month period, the subscriber shall be fined $15. This fine shall be charged
for every false alarm received during the remainder of the 12-month period.
      (6)   Upon receipt of the fourth false alarm from a business within a 12-
month period, the subscriber shall be fined $15. The subscriber shall be fined
the same amount for each additional false alarm up to and including the seventh
false alarm sounding within a 12-month period.
      (7)   Upon receipt of the eighth false alarm from a business within a 12-
month period, the subscriber shall be fined $25. This fine shall be charged for
every false alarm sounding received during the remainder of the 12-month
period.
      (8)   Failure to pay the aforesaid false alarm fines within ten days from
the date of notification shall constitute a violation of this chapter and
result in prosecution of the subscriber.
      (9)   At the end of each 12-month period, the false alarm count will
revert to zero, provided all fines have been paid.
   (C)   Any person or firm or corporation engaging in or attempting to engage
in, conduct or carry on the business defined in this chapter as “Business or
Residential Burglary or Robbery Alarms,” without conforming with the
requirements of this chapter and any alarm subscriber who operates an alarm
system without conforming to the provisions contained herein shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $25 plus court costs and not more than $500 plus
court costs and/or 30-days’ imprisonment.
(1993 Code, § 73.99) (Ord. 84-4, passed 4-18-1984; Ord. 92-5, passed 3-20-1992)
CHAPTER 74: MERCHANTS PROVIDING PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
Section
Drug Paraphernalia Dealers
   
74.01   Title
   
74.02   Purpose
   
74.03   Definitions
   
74.04   Sales of drug paraphernalia
   
74.05   Delivering drug paraphernalia to minors
   
74.06   Drug paraphernalia subject to forfeiture
   
74.07   Exempted items
Lodging for Transients
   
74.20   License required
   
74.21   Compliance with standards and regulations
   
74.22   Enforcement
   
74.23   Length of license
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Repealed when pertaining to mobile homes; mobile home parks, see §
91.005
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEALERS
§ 74.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Drug Paraphernalia
Subchapter.”
(1993 Code, § 74.01) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Licensing, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1059
§ 74.02 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to be solely used for the suppression of the
commercial traffic in items which, within the context of the sale, are clearly
and beyond a reasonable doubt marketed for the illegal and unlawful use of
cannabis or a controlled substance. To this end all reasonable and common-sense
references shall be drawn in favor of the legitimacy of any transaction of
item.
(1993 Code, § 74.02) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 74.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANNABIS. This term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 550/3,
as if that definition were ascribed herein.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. This term shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 720
ILCS 570/102, as if that definition were ascribed herein.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the
human body cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of 720 ILCS 570/100
et seq. or 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq. It includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis or a
controlled substance;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by a private person;
      (5)   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes;
         (b)   Carburetor tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and vials;
         (e)   Carburetor pipes;
         (f)   Electric pipes;
         (g)   Air-driven pipes;
         (h)   Chillums;
         (i)   Bongs; and
         (j)   Ice pipes.
      (6)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or ascribed by the seller, is
for use in violation of this subchapter.
(1993 Code, § 74.03) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 74.04 SALES OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep for sale, offer for sale, sell
or deliver for any commercial consideration any item which that person knows,
or under all circumstances reasonably should have known, to be drug
paraphernalia.
(1993 Code, § 74.04) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 DELIVERING DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 18 years of age or older to deliver drug
paraphernalia to a person 17 years of age or younger.
(1993 Code, § 74.05) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE.
   (A)   All drug paraphernalia is subject to forfeiture.
   (B)   Property subject to forfeiture under this subchapter may be seized by
any peace officer upon process issued by any court having jurisdiction over the
property. Seizure by a peace officer without process may be made under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The property subject to seizure has been the subject of prior
judgment in favor of the state in a criminal proceeding or in an injunction or
forfeiture proceedings;
      (2)   There is probable cause to believe that the property is directly or
indirectly dangerous to the health or safety; and
      (3)   In accordance with the State Code of Criminal Procedures of 1963,
as amended.
(1993 Code, § 74.06) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982)
§ 74.07 EXEMPTED ITEMS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Items marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
repackaging, labeling or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an
incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for unlawful
resale;
      (2)   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, inhaling or ingesting of tobacco or any other lawful substance;
      (3)   Items listed in §
74.03 which are marketed for decorative purposes, when the items have been
rendered inoperative or incapable of being used for any illicit purposes
prohibited by this subchapter; and
      (4)   Items exempt under this section include, but are not limited to,
garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes and cigarette-rolling
machines.
   (B)   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
section, the court shall instruct the jury hearing a case, that in addition to
all other logically relevant factors, the jury is to consider the following
factors:
      (1)   The nature, design, mechanics and any peculiar or unusual
characteristics of the device involved;
      (2)   The general, customary, usual and historical use to which the item
has been put;
      (3)   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary and customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
      (4)   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
      (5)   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      (6)   Any newspaper or magazine article or national or local advertising,
concerning the design, purpose or use of the item involved, and the entire
context in which the article or advertising occurs;
      (7)   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item displayed for
sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise exhibited
upon the premises where the sale was made;
      (8)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or the dealer of tobacco products; and
      (9)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   (C)   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
section, the judge trying the case without a jury, shall in addition to all
other relevant factors consider the same additional factors listed in division
(B) of this section.
(1993 Code, § 74.07) (Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982; Ord. passed 11-17-1982)
LODGING FOR TRANSIENTS
§ 74.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate a public house, inn, hotel or
any other establishment for the lodging of transients, or a trailer park or
camp or place accommodating trailers, house cars or tents, or an establishment
where cabins are rented, within the limits of the county, but outside the
limits of incorporated cities, villages and towns without first obtaining a
license therefor.
(1993 Code, § 74.20) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.21 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   All places required to be licensed by §
74.20 shall comply with all state and local health and sanitary standards and
with all state and local fire code regulations.
(1993 Code, § 74.21) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968)
§ 74.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Investigation and License Committee of the County Board of Supervisors
is charged with the enforcement of the provisions of §§
74.20 through
74.23.
(1993 Code, § 74.22) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968)
§ 74.23 LENGTH OF LICENSE.
   The licenses issued under this subchapter shall be for a period of a
calendar year from January 1 to December 31 (both days included). The
Investigation and License Committee of the County Board of Supervisors is
authorized and empowered to direct the issuance of such licenses for less than
one year, the fee for six months or less shall be one-half the fee the
establishment would have to pay for one full year.
(1993 Code, § 74.23) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
74.04 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each item found
to be in violation of §
74.04. For a second or subsequent conviction, the person shall be imprisoned
not less than 90 days and shall be fined not less than $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
74.05 shall be imprisoned not less than 30 days nor more than six months and
shall be fined $500. For a second or subsequent conviction, the person shall be
imprisoned not less than 90 days and shall be fined not less than $500.
   (D)   The conduct of an establishment such as described in §§
74.20 through
74.23 and required to be licensed thereunder, without first obtaining the
licenses as therein provided, shall be punishable by a fine not less than $50
nor more than $200.
(1993 Code, § 74.99) (Ord. passed 10-16-1968; Ord. 82-4, passed 6-16-1982; Ord.
82-7, passed 11-17-1982)
CHAPTER 75: SOLICITORS
Section
   
75.01   License required
   
75.02   Application
   
75.03   Issuance of license
   
75.04   License to be carried
   
75.05   License not an endorsement
   
75.06   Residential soliciting prohibited
   
75.07   Exceptions
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of peddlers and the like, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1058
   Transient Merchant Act of 1987, see 225 ILCS 465/1 et seq.
§ 75.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to canvass, peddle or solicit from
door to door in the unincorporated areas of the county, for the purpose of
soliciting money for any cause, for taking orders for merchandise or services,
or for advertising, without obtaining a license from the County Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, organization, partnership,
association, corporation or group of any type to permit any person acting as
its salesperson, officer, agent, employee or representative to canvass, peddle
or solicit from door to door in the unincorporated areas of the county, for the
purpose of soliciting money for any cause, of taking orders for merchandise or
services, or of advertising, without each salesperson, officer, agent, employee
or representative obtaining an individual license from the Clerk.
(1993 Code, § 75.01) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for the license shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the individual seeking
the license;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
person, organization, partnership, association, corporation or group of any
type represented by the individual seeking the license;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the principal
officers, management or partners of the organization, partnership, association,
corporation or group of any type;
      (4)   The purpose for which the canvassing, peddling or soliciting is to
be made; and
      (5)   A statement to the effect that if a license is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the county, or any of
its agents, officers, employees, departments or offices.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to submit an application for
license containing any misleading or untrue statements.
(1993 Code, § 75.02) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of a fully completed application for a license, the County
Clerk shall issue a license in the name of the applying individual. The license
shall be nontransferable. The license shall be valid for one year after its
issue date, unless revoked prior to that time as provided by this chapter.
Before the date of expiration of the license, the license holder shall have to
submit a new application in order to remain licensed.
(1993 Code, § 75.03) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 LICENSE TO BE CARRIED.
   Each licensee shall carry his or her license on his or her person when
canvassing, peddling or soliciting from door to door in the unincorporated
areas in the county, and shall immediately produce the license on request of
the county license investigator or any law enforcement officer.
(1993 Code, § 75.04) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 LICENSE NOT AN ENDORSEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, organization, partnership, association,
corporation or group of any type to advertise, represent or hold out in any
matter that any license issued under this chapter is an endorsement of the
licensee by the county, or by any of the county’s agents, officers, employees,
departments or offices.
(1993 Code, § 75.05) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 RESIDENTIAL SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county that the
occupants of the residences in the municipality shall make the determination of
whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective
residences.
   (B)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
      “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The canvassing, peddling and soliciting performed by residents of the
county for the benefit of a recognized charitable organization; and
   (B)   Any activities of or for the benefit of a religious or political
organization, except for the selling of merchandise.
(1993 Code, § 75.07) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, organization, partnership, association, corporation or group of
any type who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or
who resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense, or
the revocation for no more than one year of any license issued under this
chapter to or for the benefit of the person, organization, partnership,
association, corporation or group of any type, or both.
(1993 Code, § 75.99) (Ord. passed 8-16-1978)
CHAPTER 76: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Special use permit requirements
   
76.03   Location restrictions
   
76.04   Physical layout
   
76.05   Prohibited conduct
   
76.06   Sales violations
   
76.07   Hours of operation
   
76.08   Signs
   
76.09   Public health standards
   
76.10   Inspections
   
76.11   Amortization period
   
76.12   Vicarious liability
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
and phrases used in this chapter which are not defined herein shall have the
meaning ascribed to such words and phrases in common usage.
   ADULT BUSINESS. Any establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not
limited to the following: adults-only bookstores, adults-only motion picture
theaters, adult entertainment centers, massage parlors, rap parlors, adults-
only cabarets or adults-only saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted
and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Synonymous with ADULT BUSINESS, as defined
herein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. An enclosed building or part of an enclosed
building, which contains one or more coin-operated mechanisms which when
activated permit a customer to view a live person nude or in such attire,
costume or clothing as to expose to view the human male or female genitalia;
pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; or, female breast, at or
below the areola thereof. In addition, the viewing of a live person, in the
above-described manner, after paying of any admission or fee for the viewing of
same activity.
   ADULTS-ONLY. Any items or activities emphasizing, depicting, describing or
relating to nudity, explicit sexual conduct (whether auto-erotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity.
   ADULTS-ONLY BOOKSTORE. An adults-only establishment having as a substantial
or significant portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale
or viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or other coin-operated
means, and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
principal emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to nudity,
explicit sexual conduct (whether auto-erotic, heterosexual, homosexual or
otherwise), bestiality, sadomasochistic activity. An establishment, having
adults-only items as a substantial or significant portion of its stock, that
sells or displays adults-only items for sale to patrons therein.
   ADULTS-ONLY CABARETS. An establishment or place primarily in the business of
featuring topless dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, male or
female impersonators or similar entertainers, where explicit sexual conduct is
depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or
tolerated.
   ADULTS-ONLY MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building used regularly and
routinely for presenting adults-only material distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to nudity, explicit
sexual conduct (whether auto-erotic, heterosexual, homosexual or otherwise),
bestiality or sadomasochistic activity, for observation by patron therein.
   BOOTH. Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults-only item or movie. Said
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
   CUBICLE. Synonymous with BOOTH, as defined herein.
   DOOR. Full, complete, non-transparent closure device that obscures the view
or activity taking place within the enclosure.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment or place primarily in the business of
providing massage services, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/or
sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   NUDITY. The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than fully opaque covering; or,
male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with or without covering.
   OBSCENE. Any material or performance is obscene if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20)
   OPERATOR. Any person, (whether said persons be an individual, partner,
corporation, joint stock company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder,
employee or manager), that conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
   PATRON. Any customer, patron or visitor to an adult business who is not
employed by any operator of said establishment.
   RAP PARLOR. An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
non-professional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
   ROOM. Synonymous with BOOTH, as defined herein.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY. Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person;
a person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume. In addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
   SAUNA. An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing a
steam bath and/or massage services, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted
and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
   SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Ultimate sex acts (whether auto-erotic, heterosexual,
homosexual or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. In addition,
physical contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or
the recipient, with a person’s unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions or female breast.
   UNDERAGE. Any person under 18 years of age, the legally minimum age at which
one can purchase or view adults-only items.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20)
   WALL SIGN. Any flat sign which is placed against a building or other
structure and attached thereto in such manner that only one side is visible.
(1993 Code, § 76.01) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 76.02 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No adult business may operate within the unincorporated territory of
this county without first having obtained a special use permit. A separate
special use permit must be acquired for each adult business. It shall likewise
be unlawful for any such business to sell or offer for sale any adults-only
items in violation of the terms and conditions of such special use permit.
   (B)   A special use permit issued by the county is required with respect to
any building location and premises, within the unincorporated territory of this
county, at or upon which an adult business is to be operated.
   (C)   All special use permit procedures and criteria are as noted in the
county zoning code, including, but not limited to, §§
93.177,
93.178,
93.179,
93.180 and
93.181. However, for purposes of special use permits sought for adult
businesses, §
93.177(F) is clarified as specifying a 30-day period within which to submit all
additional information and §
93.177(H) is clarified as specifying a 60-day period within which the appeal
will be heard.
   (D)   No special use permit shall be held in existence by the mere payment
of fees.
(1993 Code, § 76.02) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 76.03 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The use of property for an adult business can have potentially harmful
secondary effects on surrounding areas, and may have a deleterious effect upon
the use and enjoyment of adjoining properties.
   (B)   Such secondary effects can include, but not be limited to, a tendency
to attract an undesirable quantity and quality of transients, to affect
property values adversely, to cause an increase in crime, especially
prostitution, to contribute to the blighting or down-grading of the surrounding
neighborhood/area, and to encourage residents and businesses to move elsewhere.
   (C)   As such, all adult business, excepting nonconforming uses as described
below, must comply with the following location restrictions.
      (1)   All adult businesses shall be located within a B-3 Highway Business
District.
      (2)   No adult business shall be located within 1,000 feet of any
residential zone, single or multiple-family dwelling, church, school, licensed
day-care facility, cemetery or park. Said distance shall be measured from
property line to property line.
      (3)   No more than two adult business shall be located within 1,000 feet,
(excluding streets, alleys and public ways), of another adult business. Said
distance shall be measured from property line to property line.
      (4)   Adult businesses in violation of divisions (A), (B) and (C) above
shall be permitted as nonconforming uses where said adult businesses were
established and operated continuously prior to September 20, 1995, provided
that no such adult business may be enlarged or increased in size or may be
discontinued in use for a period of more than 180 days.
(1993 Code, § 76.03) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 76.04 PHYSICAL LAYOUT.
   The use of booths, rooms or cubicles in an adult business can, by reason or
their design and intended use, facilitate the spread of sexually transmitted
diseases (both fatal and non-fatal). Insofar as the county has a substantial
government interest in protecting the public health, safety and welfare of its
citizens and all persons within the county, the following standards have been
propounded to eliminate the possibility of infection by contagious sexually
transmitted diseases.
   (A)   All booths, rooms or cubicles for the private viewing of any adults-
only items or movies shall comply with the following standards:
      (1)   They be totally accessible both to and from lighted aisles and
public areas of the adult business;
      (2)   The bottom surfaces of any doors must measure at least 42 inches
from the floor surfaces;
      (3)   No surfaces intended for seating may be located therein;
      (4)   No doors may be fitted with or obstructed by any lock mechanism or
other control-type device;
      (5)   They must be separated from adjacent booths, rooms or cubicles and
any non-public areas by a solid wall without any opening and extending from the
floor to a height of at least six feet;
      (6)   They must be lit by light bulbs of at least 25 watts when the adult
business is open for business; and
      (7)   All doors or openings must be sufficiently unobstructed such that
an operator, employee or agent may determine the number of persons within any
booth, room or cubicle.
   (B)   Only one person shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle at any time;
and, at no time, shall the occupant therein engage in any type of sexual
conduct resulting in the discharge of any bodily fluids while within a booth,
room or cubicle.
   (C)   All wall and floor surfaces must be of a light-colored, non-absorbent,
smooth texture that is easily cleaned.
   (D)   All public areas of an adult business must be lit by light bulbs of at
least 60 watts when the adult business is open for business.
(1993 Code, § 76.04) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   The operator of any adult business shall neither participate in nor suffer
or permit any of the following prohibited acts to occur on the premises:
   (A)   Sexual conduct, including, but not limited to, any demonstration,
dance, performance or exhibition on the licensed premises by any employee,
agent, entertainer or patron, where said person engages in any of the following
conduct:
      (1)   Exposure of the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic region;
      (2)   Exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
or pubic region;
      (3)   Exposure of any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof;
      (4)   Performance or simulated performance of ultimate sexual acts or
explicit sexual conduct (whether auto-erotic, heterosexual, homosexual or
otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity; or
      (5)   Fondling of his or her own genitals or the genitalia of another
person.
   (B)   Employment or use of the services of any person in or upon the
premises of the adult business while such person is unclothed or in such
attire, costume or clothing so as to result in conduct prohibited in division
(A) above;
   (C)   Admission of any underage patron into or upon the premises of the
adult business;
   (D)   Patronage, frequenting or loitering of any underage person in any
adult business;
   (E)   Allowance of any underage person to view, accept or otherwise possess
any adults-only item on the licensed premises;
   (F)   Employment or use of the services of any underage person in or upon
the premises of the adult business; and
   (G)   Drunkenness, fighting, unlawful games, riotous or disorderly conduct
whatsoever, in any premises kept or occupied as an adult business.
(1993 Code, § 76.05) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06 SALES VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No operator, agent or employee shall knowingly sell, deliver or
provide, or offer or agree to sell, deliver or provide any obscene writing,
picture, record or other representation or embodiment of the obscene.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20)
   (B)   No operator, agent or employee shall sell, deliver or provide, or
offer or agree to sell, deliver or provide any obscene writing, picture, record
or other representation or embodiment of the obscene after recklessly failing
to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or
content thereof.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20)
   (C)   No operator, agent or employee shall create, buy, procure or possess
obscene matter or material with intent to disseminate it in violation of this
ordinance or state statute.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20)
   (D)   No operator, agent or employee shall advertise or otherwise promote
the sale of material represented or held out by him or her to be obscene,
whether or not it is obscene.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20)
   (E)   No operator, agent or employee shall knowingly sell, deliver or
provide, or offer or agree to sell, deliver or provide any child pornography,
as defined by state statute.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20.1)
   (F)   No operator, agent or employee shall create, buy, procure or possess
any child pornography with intent to disseminate it in violation of this
chapter or state statute.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20.1)
   (G)   No operator, agent or employee shall advertise or otherwise promote
the sale of material represented or held out by him or her to be child
pornography, whether or not it is child pornography.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20.1)
   (H)   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining an adults-only item
shall sell, deliver or allow any underage person to view an adults-only item.
   (I)   If an operator, agent or employee believes or has reason to believe
that a sale, delivery or viewing of any adults-only item is prohibited because
the prospective recipient is underage, said operator, agent or employee shall,
(before making or allowing such sale, gift, delivery or viewing), demand
presentation of some form of positive identification containing proof of age,
issued by a public officer in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (J)   An operator, agent or employee may refuse to sell, deliver or allow
any person to view any adults-only item, where said person is unable to produce
adequate written evidence of identity and age by production of a document
issued by the federal, state or county government, or subdivision or agency
thereof, including, but not limited to, the following documents:
      (1)   A motor vehicle operator’s license;
      (2)   A registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective
Service Act, being 50 U.S.C. App. §§ 451 et seq.; or
      (3)   An identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces.
   (K)   (1)   Proof that the operator, employee or agent, demanded, examined
and reasonably relied upon such written evidence listed in division (J) above
in any transaction forbidden by this chapter is competent evidence that may be
offered as an affirmative defense to a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   In order to reasonably rely upon written evidence regarding a
patron’s identity and age, an operator, agent or employee shall use the prudent
judgment of a reasonable and informed person, and shall scrutinize said written
evidence of age and identity by doing the following:
         (a)   Determine if the physical description and photograph (if any) on
the document presented matches that of the presenting person;
         (b)   Determine whether the plastic seal on the identification card is
intact or broken; and
         (c)   In the case of a state driver’s license, determine whether the
seventh and eighth digits in the driver’s license number (excluding the
beginning initial) match the stated date of birth located elsewhere on the
driver’s license.
      (3)   If from the foregoing, a reasonable person would or should doubt
the authenticity of the identification card, then the person offering the
identification must not be sold, delivered or allowed to view any adults-only
items.
   (L)   No operator, agent or employee shall give away or otherwise make
available any adults-only item or viewing of any adults-only item for the
purpose of evading any provision of this chapter, when the sale or viewing of
said adults-only item is prohibited shall constitute unlawful selling.
   (M)   Offers or agreements to sell, deliver, provide or allow the viewing of
any adults-only item at or within any premises when the sale or viewing of said
adults-only item is prohibited shall constitute unlawful selling.
   (N)   The use of any other shift or device to evade any provision of this
chapter is prohibited and shall constitute unlawful selling.
(1993 Code, § 76.06) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The unlimited operation of an adult business can, by reason of their
intended use, facilitate secondary effects including, but not limited to,
prostitution, disorderly conduct, performance of sexual acts or conduct in
public, traffic congestion and parking problems. Insofar as the county has a
substantial government interest in preserving character and preventing
deterioration of its neighborhood and minimizing the disruptive effect of such
adult businesses on neighborhoods, the following limitations on operation times
have been propounded.
   (A)   No operator, employee or agent of an adult business shall sell,
deliver or allow any person to view any adults-only item between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Mondays through Saturdays, nor between the hours of
3:00 a.m. and noon on Sundays. The time referred to shall be either Central
Standard Time or Daylight Savings Time, whichever is in effect at the time in
this state.
   (B)   No operator, employee or agent of an adult business shall permit any
person to remain on the premises during the hours specified herein and all
patrons shall vacate the licensed premises during the hours specified herein.
(1993 Code, § 76.07) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.08 SIGNS.
   (A)   The unregulated use of signs can result in secondary effects that
create dangers to the public in periods of high winds or inclement weather,
defeat the sign’s informational or advertising functions as competitors
escalate sign size and expense to attract patrons, reduce the ability of the
public to interpret the intended message safely and quickly, and destroy the
aesthetic quality of the community.
   (B)   Insofar as the county has a substantial government interest in these
matters, all signs advertising or promoting the sale of adults-only items must
meet the following restrictions.
      (1)   All signs must be flat wall signs.
      (2)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be as stated in the sign
regulations section of the county zoning code.
      (3)   No merchandise or depictions of adults-only items shall be
displayed in window areas or any other area that may be viewed from a public
street, alley, public way or sidewalk located in front of the building.
      (4)   A one square foot sign may be placed on the door to state the hours
of operation and adults-only admittance.
      (5)   All provisions of the sign regulation section of the county zoning
code shall control except as clearly contradicted by this division. In the
event that the provisions conflict, this division shall prevail.
      (6)   Signs of adult businesses in violation of divisions (B)(1) and (B)
(4) of this section shall be permitted to retain their preexisting signs as
nonconforming, where said adult businesses were established and operated
continuously prior to the original effective date of this chapter (September
20, 1995), provided that no such adult business shall enlarge or otherwise
enhance any such preexisting sign. This division (B)(6) shall not apply to any
adult business use discontinued for a period of more than 180 days.
(1993 Code, § 76.08) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.09 PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS.
   (A)   All premises operated as an adult business shall be kept in clean and
sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with regulations issued
by the County Health Department or the State Department of Public Health.
   (B)   Any adult business shall keep and maintain the premises equipped with
running hot and cold water, shall provide separate and adequate toilet
facilities for both males and females, and shall comply with all health,
sanitary, zoning and inspection requirements of the county code and the state.
(1993 Code, § 76.09) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.10 INSPECTIONS.
   Any adult business shall permit representatives of the Police Department,
Health Department (county or state), Fire Department, Zoning Department or
Building Department to inspect the premises of an adult business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter and with state statutes, at
any time the adult business is open for business.
(1993 Code, § 76.10) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 76.11 AMORTIZATION PERIOD.
   Adult businesses in violation of any restriction or regulation contained
herein, excepting any location or sign restrictions, must come into full
compliance within six months from the effective date of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 76.11) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 76.12 VICARIOUS LIABILITY.
   (A)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any employee or agent of any
operator, shall be deemed and held to be the act of said operator if such act
or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the
operator.
   (B)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any employee or agent of any
operator, shall be deemed and held to be the act of said operator if such act
or omission occurs as a result of the operator’s negligent failure to supervise
the conduct of the employee or agent.
   (C)   Such an offense shall be punishable in the same manner as if said act
or omission had been done or omitted by the operator personally.
(1993 Code, § 76.12) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event that an operator, agent or employee of an adult business
is guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, said person may be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500 per violation.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to an offense for each and every day on which such violation continues, and
each day that the offense continues shall be regarded as constituting a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any prosecution for violations of this chapter does not prohibit the
county from pursuing injunctive relief or the State’s Attorney’s Office from
pursuing criminal charges.
(1993 Code, § 76.99) (Ord. 99-03, passed 2-17-1999)
CHAPTER 77: BODY ART
Section
General Provisions
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Adoption by reference
Permits
   
77.15   Establishment and operator/technician permit requirements
   
77.16   Exemptions
   
77.17   Permit fees
   
77.18   Suspension or revocation of permits
Standards of Operation
   
77.30   Prohibitions
   
77.31   Client records
   
77.32   Records retention
   
77.33   Body fluid precautions
   
77.34   Diseases
   
77.35   Preparation of skin and aftercare
   
77.36   Equipment sanitation and sterilization
   
77.37   Sanitary facilities
   
77.38   Premises
   
77.39   Construction and remodeling
Administration and Enforcement
   
77.50   Inspections
 
   
77.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adult businesses, see
Ch. 76
   Merchants providing products or services, see
Ch. 74
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and usual
sense, except where used in a technical sense or where context or the intent of
the County Board of Health indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFTERCARE. Written instructions given to the client, specific to the body
art procedure(s) rendered, on caring for the body art and surrounding area.
These instructions will include information when to seek medical treatment, if
necessary.
   ANTISEPTIC. A product that is labeled as useful in preventing diseases
caused by microorganisms present on the skin and/or mucosal surfaces of humans.
This includes products meant to kill germs and/or labeled as “antiseptic,”
“antibacterial,” “microbicide,” or “germicide,” or other similar terms. These
products should be in compliance with section 201(g)(1)(B) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(g)(1)(B)).
   BIOMEDICAL WASTE/REGULATED WASTE. Any solid or liquid waste that can present
a threat of infection to humans, including non- liquid tissue, body parts,
blood, blood products, and body fluids from humans; wastes that contain human
disease-causing agents; and discarded sharps. The following are also included:
      (1)   Used, absorbent materials saturated with blood, blood products,
body fluids, or excretions/secretions contaminated with visible blood. Also
includes absorbent materials saturated with blood or blood products that have
dried.
      (2)   Nonabsorbent, disposable devices that have been contaminated with
blood, body fluids or, secretions/excretions visibly contaminated with blood,
but the devices have not been treated by an approved method.
   BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not
limited to, hepatitis B virus (HBV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), and human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) [Occupational Safety and Health Administration
[OSHA] definition 29cfr 1910.103(b)].
   BODY ART. The practice of physical body adornment by permitted
establishments and operators utilizing, but not limited to, the following
techniques: body piercing, tattooing, cosmetic tattooing, branding and
scarification. This definition does not include practices that are considered
medical procedures by a state medical board, such as implants under the skin,
and shall not be performed in a BODY ART establishment. Nor does this
definition include, for the purposes of this code, piercing of the outer
perimeter or lobe of the ear using pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear
piercing systems.
   BODY ART ESTABLISHMENT. Any place or premises, whether public or private,
permanent in nature and location, where the practices of body art, whether or
not for profit, are performed.
   BODY PIERCING. Puncturing or penetration of the skin or mucosa of a person
using pre-sterilized single use needles and the insertion of pre-sterilized
single use needles and the insertion of pre-sterilized jewelry or other
adornment thereto in the opening. Puncturing the outer perimeter or lobe of the
ear using a pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system shall
not be included in this definition.
   COSMETIC TATTOOING. See PERMANENT COSMETICS.
   DEPARTMENT. The Madison County Health Department.
   DISINFECTANT. A product that is tuberculocidal and registered by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, as indicated on the label for use in
disinfection.
   DISINFECTION. The destruction of disease-causing microorganisms on inanimate
objects or surfaces, thereby rendering these objects safe for use or handling.
   DISINFECT. A process that provides an effective concentration of a United
States Environmental Protection Agency registered chemical for enough contact
time as specified by the manufacturer to reduce bacterial count, including
pathogens, to a safe level (when disease organisms that may be present are
destroyed so as to prevent transfer) on equipment surfaces and in toilet and
hand-washing facilities.
   EAR PIERCING. The puncturing of the outer perimeter or lobe of the ear using
a pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system following
manufacturer instructions.
   EQUIPMENT. All machinery, including fixtures, containers, vessels, tools,
devices, implements, furniture, display and storage areas, sinks and all other
apparatus and appurtenances used in connection with the operation of a body art
establishment.
   GLOVES. Medical grade or exam grade, sterile or nonsterile, disposable,
single-use, full hand coverings worn for protection against disease
transmission.
   HANDSINK. A lavatory equipped with hot and cold running water under
pressure, used solely for washing hands, arms, or other portions of the body.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. All substances that exposure to results or can result in
adverse effects on human health and safety under 29 CFR 1910.120 OSHA.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Administrator of the County Health Department or his or
her authorized representative.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction.
   INSTRUMENTS USED FOR BODY ART. Hand pieces, needles, needle bars and other
instruments that may come in contact with a client’s body or possible exposure
to bodily fluids during body art procedures.
   JEWELRY. Any personal ornament inserted into a newly pierced area, which
must be made of surgical implant grade stainless steel, solid 14k or 18k white
or yellow gold, niobium, titanium or platinum, a dense, low-porosity plastic
and or which is free of nicks, scratches or irregular surfaces and which has
been properly sterilized prior to use. If used for initial piercing, jewelry
must be ASTM F2999 compliant.
   LIQUID CHEMICAL GERMICIDE. A disinfectant or sanitizer registered with the
Environmental Protection Agency or an approximate 1:100 dilution of household
chlorine bleach made fresh daily and dispensed from a spray bottle (500 ppm,
one-fourth cup/gallon or two tablespoons/quart of tap water).
   MATERIAL CERTIFICATE. All documents intended to state the specifics of a
material used for body jewelry. Names for these documents include but are not
limited to Mill Certificate, Material Certificate, Metal Composition Sheets,
MSD, and Material Certification Sheets.
   MUCOSAL SURFACE. The moisture- secreting membrane lining of all body
cavities or passages that communicates with the exterior, including but not
limited to the nose, mouth, vulva, and urethra.
   OPERATOR/TECHNICIAN. Any person who controls, operates, manages, conducts,
or practices body art activities at a body art establishment and who is
responsible for compliance with these regulations, whether actually performing
body art activities or not. The term includes technicians who work under the
operator and perform body art activities.
   PERMANENT COSMETICS. A tattoo, by someone other than a licensed physician,
which includes but is not limited to eyebrows, eyelids, lips, and other parts
of the body. This term includes any procedures whether referred to as, but not
limited to, “permanent makeup,” “microdermapigmentation,” “micropigment
implantation,” “microblading,” “micro-needling with use of pignment,”
“dermagraphics,” “cosmetic tattooing,” or any other similar procedures and for
the purpose of this chapter has the same meaning as “tattoo.”
   PERMIT. Written approval by the Department to operate a body art
establishment.
   PERSON. An individual, any form of business or social organization or any
other non-governmental legal entity including, but not limited to, a
corporation, partnership, firm, limited liability company, association, trust
or unincorporated organization.
   PHYSICIAN. A person licensed by the state to practice medicine in all its
branches and may include other areas such as dentistry, osteopathy or
acupuncture.
   PIERCE. To make a hole in the body or oral cavity in order to insert or
allow the insertion of any ring, hoop, stud or other object for the purpose of
ornamentation of the body. PIERCING does not include tongue splitting.
   PROCEDURE SURFACE. Any surface of an inanimate object that contacts the
client’s unclothed body during a body art procedure, skin preparation of the
area adjacent to and including the body art procedure or any associated work
area, which may require sanitizing.
   SANITIZE/SANITIZATION PROCEDURE. A process of reducing the numbers of
microorganisms on cleaned surfaces and equipment to a safe level as judged by
public heath standards and which the Department has approved.
   SHARPS. Any object (sterile or contaminated) that may purposefully or
accidentally cut or penetrate the skin or mucosa including, but not limited to,
pre-sterilized, single use needles, scalpel blades and razor blades.
   SHARPS CONTAINER. A puncture-resistant, leak-proof container that can be
closed for handling, storage, transportation and disposal and is labeled with
the international biohazard symbol.
   SINGLE USE. Products or items that are intended for one-time, one-person and
are disposed of after use on each client including, but not limited to, cotton
swabs or balls, tissues or paper products, paper or plastic cups, gauze and
sanitary coverings, razors, piercing needles, scalpel blades, stencils, ink
cups and protective gloves.
   STANDARD PRECAUTIONS/UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. A set of infection control
practices used to prevent transmission of diseases that can be acquired by
contact with blood, body fluids, non-intact skin (including rashes), and mucous
membranes.
   STERILIZATION. A very powerful process resulting in the destruction of all
forms of microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial spores.
   STERILIZATION AREA or STERILIZATION ROOM. A room or enclosed area, set apart
and used only to clean, decontaminate, and sterilize instruments. This room
must be enclosed, not open to the public, and used only for cleaning,
sterilization, and related tasks.
   STERILE WATER. Water that is purchased from the manufacturer sterile, in a
single-use container.
   TATTOO. The mark resulting from the act of tattooing.
   TATTOOING. Any method of placing ink or other pigment into or under the skin
or mucosa by the aid of needles or any other instrument used to puncture the
skin, resulting in permanent coloration of the skin or mucosa. This includes
all forms of cosmetic tattooing.
   TONGUE SPLITTING. The cutting of a human tongue into two or more parts.
   ULTRASONIC CLEANER or ULTRASONIC. A device that removes debris by a process
called cavitation, in which waves of acoustic energy are propagated in aqueous
solutions to disrupt the bonds that hold particulate matter to surfaces
[Guidelines for Disinfection and Sterilization in Healthcare Facilities, 2008,
Section 445].
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. A set of guidelines and controls, published by the
Center for Disease Control (CDC) as ‘guidelines for prevention of transmission
of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus to health-care and
public-safety workers’ in Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), June
23, 1989, Vol. 38, No S-6, and as ‘recommendations for preventing transmission
of human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus to patients during
exposure-prone invasive procedures,’ in MMWR, July 12, 1991, Vol. 40, No. RR-8.
This method of infection control requires the employer and the employee to
assume that all human blood and specified human body fluids are infectious for
HIV, HBV and other blood pathogens. Precautions include hand washing, gloving,
personal protective equipment, injury prevention, proper handling and disposal
of needles, other sharp instruments, and blood and body fluid contaminated
products.
   WORKSTATION. The area within a procedure area where a body artist performs
body art. The workstation includes but is not limited to the client chair or
table, counter, mayo stand, instrument tray, storage drawer, and practitioner’s
chair.
(1993 Code, § 77.01) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In addition to those provisions set forth herein, this chapter hereby adopts
by reference the current edition and subsequent revisions of the following:
Title 77: Public Health Chapter I: Department of Public Health Subchapter m:
Food, Drugs and Cosmetics Part 797 Body Art Code.
(Ord. 2009-07, passed - -2009; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-18-2020)
PERMITS
§ 77.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATOR/TECHNICIAN PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment permit.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a body art
establishment within the county who does not possess a valid permit issued by
the Department. Body art procedures shall only be performed in a body art
establishment, with a valid permit issued by Madison County Health Department
and with a valid permit issued by Illinois Department of Public Health.
      (2)   Only a person who complies with the requirements of both this
chapter and the Illinois Department of Public Health’s Body Art Code (77 Ill.
Adm. Code 797) shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit.
      (3)   Permits shall not be transferable from one person to another person
nor shall said permit be transferable to any location, building or place other
than that which it was originally issued.
      (4)   The county permit for a body art establishment shall be for the
length of a period of 12 months from the date of issuance. Annual renewal of
both permits shall be required for continued operation of the body art
establishment.
      (5)   A valid permit shall be posted in every body art establishment so
as to be clearly visible to all clients. A valid permit is one that is not
suspended, revoked or expired.
      (6)   The holder of the body art establishment permit must only hire
operators who have complied with the operator permit requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Operator permit.
      (1)   No person shall practice body art procedures in the county without
first obtaining an operator permit from the Department. Only a person who
complies with the requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and
retain such a permit.
      (2)   The body artist must be a minimum of 18 years of age.
      (3)   An annual operator permit shall be valid from the date of issuance
and shall automatically expire 12 months from date of issuance.
      (4)   A guest operator permit shall be valid from the date of issuance
and shall automatically expire 90 days from date of issuance.
      (5)   Any person desiring to obtain an operator permit shall make written
application on forms provided by the Department. Application for operator
permits shall include:
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Date of birth;
         (c)   Sex;
         (d)   Residence address;
         (e)   Mailing address;
         (f)   Phone number;
         (g)   Place(s) of employment as an operator;
         (h)   Training and/or experience;
         (i)   Proof of attendance at a blood borne pathogen-training program
approved by the Department; and
         (j)   Copy of a state issued photo identification card or driver’s
license with photo.
      (6)   Examples of approved courses would include Preventing Disease
Transmission (American Red Cross) and Bloodborne Pathogen Training (U.S. OSHA).
Training/courses provided by professional body art organizations/associations
or by equipment manufacturers may also be submitted to the Department for
approval.
      (7)   Applicants shall demonstrate knowledge of the following subjects:
         (a)   Anatomy;
         (b)   Skin diseases, disorders and conditions (including diabetes);
         (c)   Infectious disease control including waste disposal,
handwashing, techniques sterilization equipment operation and methods, and
sanitization/disinfection/sterilization methods and techniques; and
         (d)   Facility safety and sanitation knowledge of the above subjects
may also be demonstrated through submission of documentation of attendance/
completion of courses.
      (8)   No operator permit shall be issued unless, following reasonable
investigation by the Department, the body art operator has demonstrated
compliance with the provisions of this section and all other provisions of this
chapter.
      (9)   All operator permits shall be conditioned upon continued compliance
with the provisions of this section as well as all applicable provisions of
this chapter.
      (10)   All operator permits shall be posted in a prominent and
conspicuous area where clients may readily observe them.
(1993 Code, § 77.10) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2009-07, passed - -
2009; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Physicians licensed by the state who perform either independent of or
in connection with body art procedures as part of patient treatment are exempt
from these regulations.
   (B)   Individuals who pierce only the outer perimeter and lobe of the ear
using a pre-sterilized single use stud and clasp ear piercing system are exempt
from these regulations. Under no circumstances shall ear piercing studs and
clasps be used anywhere on the body other than the outer perimeter and lobe of
the ear. Individuals who use ear-piercing systems must conform to the
manufacturer’s directions on use and applicable United States Food and Drug
Administration requirements. The Department retains authority to investigate
consumer complaints relating to alleged misuse or improper disinfection of ear
piercing systems.
(1993 Code, § 77.11) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.17 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be assessed for each operator/technician and deposited
into the Health Department Fund.
   (A)   The fee schedule is as follows:
 
Establishment permit              $0
Annual operator/technician permit $50
Guest operator/technician permit  $20
 
   (B)   Permit fees shall be non-refundable once the Department has issued a
permit.
   (C)   All permit fees for the renewal of permits are due 15 days prior to
the permit expiration date.
   (D)   Persons failing to submit the fee and annual renewal application by
the due date shall be assessed a late payment penalty fee of $25 in addition to
the permit fee.
(1993 Code, § 77.12) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2009-07, passed - -
2009; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-18-2020)
§ 77.18 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit suspension.
      (1)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
suspended by the Health Officer upon notice to the permit holder of same.
Reasons for suspending the permit include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter after
notification by the Health Officer;
         (c)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter within the
time established by the Health Officer;
         (d)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his
or her duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health
Officer access to the permit holder’s building or records;
         (e)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter; or
         (f)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or
renewal applications.
      (2)   Upon making a determination that a suspension is appropriate, the
Health Officer shall advise the permit holder in writing of the intended
suspension. The notice shall be delivered in person by the Health Officer or
sent via certified mail. The permit holder may make a written request for a
hearing with the Health Officer before imposition of the period of suspension.
      (3)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be
suspended by the Health Officer without notice to the permit holder when, in
the judgment of the Health Officer, a condition exists that will result in an
imminent health hazard to the public.
      (4)   Upon making a determination that a suspension without notice is
appropriate, the Health Officer shall immediately, without warning or notice,
advise the permit holder of said condition and all body art operations shall be
immediately discontinued.
   (B)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked
by the Health Officer upon notice to the permit holder of same. Reasons for
revoking the permit include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Repeatedly failing to comply with the provisions of this
chapter;
         (b)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his
or her duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health
Officer access to the permit holder’s building or records;
         (c)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter;
         (d)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or
renewal applications;
         (e)   Failure to apply for reinspection within 30 days of the end of a
suspension period imposed for violations of the provisions of this chapter; and
         (f)   When the continuous operation of the business has lapsed for a
period of more than 90 days.
      (2)   Upon making a determination that a revocation is appropriate, the
Health Officer shall advise the permit holder in writing of the intended
revocation. The notice shall be delivered in person by the Health Officer or
sent via certified mail. The permit holder may make a written request for a
hearing with the Health Officer before imposition of the revocation.
(1993 Code, § 77.13) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 77.30 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No mobile, temporary or transient body art establishment shall operate
in the county.
(1993 Code, § 77.13) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
      (2)   The client’s age is to be documented by a picture identification
that includes the client’s date of birth. Nothing in this section is intended
to require an operator to perform any body piercing procedure on a person under
18 years of age with parental or guardian consent.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) above are to be posted as to be clearly visible
to all clients.
   (E)   (1)   Before the oral cavity of a person under 18 years of age may be
pierced, the written consent form signed by the parent or legal guardian must
contain a provision in substantially the following form:
      “I understand that the oral piercing of the tongue, lips, cheeks or any
other area of the oral cavity carries serious risk of infection and damage to
those areas, that could result in but is not limited to nerve damage, numbness
and life threatening blood clots.”
      (720 ILCS 5/12-10.1)
      (2)   A violation of this division (E) is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Operators/technicians shall refuse service to any person who, in the
opinion of the operator/technician is under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (G)   A person may not perform tongue splitting on another person unless the
person performing the tongue splitting is licensed to practice medicine in all
its branches under the Medical Practice Act of 1987 or licensed under the
Illinois Dental Practice Act.
   (H)   Any person who is an owner or employed by a business that performs
tattooing or piercing, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all
its branches, may not permit a person under 18 years of age to enter or remain
on the premises where tattooing or piercing is being performed unless the
person under 18 years of age is accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian. A violation of this division (H) is a Class A misdemeanor.
(1993 Code, § 77.20) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.31 CLIENT RECORDS.
   So that the operator/technician can properly evaluate the client’s medical
condition for receiving a body art procedure and not violate the client’s
rights or confidential medical information, the operator/ technician shall ask
for the information as follows.
   (A)   “In order for proper healing of your body art procedure, we ask that
you disclose if you have or have had any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Diabetes;
      (2)   History of hemophilia (bleeding);
      (3)   History of skin diseases, skin lesions or skin sensitivities to
soaps, disinfectants and the like;
      (4)   History of allergies or adverse reactions to pigments, dyes or
other skin sensitivities;
      (5)   History of epilepsy, seizures, fainting or narcolepsy; or
      (6)   Use of medications such as anticoagulants, which thin the blood
and/or interfere with blood clotting.”
   (B)   The operator/technician should ask the client to sign a release form
confirming that the above information was obtained or attempted to be obtained.
The client should be asked to disclose any other information that would aid the
operator/technician in the client’s body art healing process evaluation.
   (C)   Each operator shall keep records of all body art procedures
administered; including date, time, identification and location of the body art
procedure(s) performed and operator’s name. All client records shall be
confidential and be retained for a minimum of three years and made available to
the Department upon notification.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the operator to
perform a body art procedure upon a client.
(1993 Code, § 77.21) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.32 RECORDS RETENTION.
   The following information shall be kept on file on the premises of the body
art establishment and available for inspection by the Department:
   (A)   Records of all persons who have had body art procedures performed. The
record shall include the name, date of birth and address of the client, the
date of the procedure, name of the operator who performed the procedure(s),
type and location of procedure performed, aftercare instruction document, with
operator signature and signature of client and if the client is a minor,
written consent of parent or legal guardian. All client records shall be
confidential and be retained for a minimum of three years;
   (B)   Identification photos of all operators/ technicians;
   (C)   Proof that all operators have either completed or were offered and
declined, in writing, the hepatitis B vaccination series;
   (D)   A complete description of all body art procedures performed;
   (E)   Autoclave spore destruction test records shall be retained by the
establishment for a period of three years;
   (F)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps and all
inks used for any and all body art procedures, including names of manufacturers
and serial or lot numbers, if applicable. Invoices or orders shall satisfy this
requirement;
   (G)   A copy of these regulations;
   (H)   Receipts for jewelry purchased for initial piercings shall list
specifications for materials sold as listed in this chapter and be retained for
a period of three years; and
   (I)   Material certificates from jewelry suppliers for jewelry used for
initial piercings shall be retained for a period of three years. Material
certificates shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name of purchaser of material;
      (2)   Name of seller of material;
      (3)   Date of material sales;
      (4)   Type of material purchased;
      (5)   Composition of material purchased;
      (6)   Quantity of material purchased; and
      (7)   Country of origin.
(1993 Code, § 77.22) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.33 BODY FLUID PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   The operator/technician shall maintain a high degree of personal
cleanliness, conform to hygienic practices and wear clean clothes when
performing body art procedures. Before performing body art procedures, the
operator must thoroughly wash their hands in hot running water with liquid
soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels. This shall be done
as often as necessary to remove contaminants.
   (B)   The operator shall wear disposable medical gloves while performing
body art procedures. Gloves must be changed if they become contaminated by
contact with any non-clean surfaces or objects or contact with a third person.
The gloves shall be discarded at a minimum, after the completion of each
procedure on an individual client and hands washed prior to donning the next
set of gloves. Under no circumstances shall a single pair of gloves be used on
more than one person. The use of disposable medical gloves does not preclude or
substitute for hand washing procedures as part of a good personnel hygiene
program.
   (C)   If, while performing a body art procedure the operator’s glove is
pierced, torn or otherwise contaminated, the contaminated gloves shall be
immediately discarded and the hands washed thoroughly before a fresh pair of
gloves are applied. Any item or instrument used for body art that is
contaminated during the procedure shall be discarded and replaced immediately
with a new disposable item or a new sterilized instrument or item before the
procedure resumes.
   (D)   Biomedical waste, as defined in this chapter, which may release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed or may release dried blood or body fluids
when handled must be placed in an approved bag which is marked with the
international biohazard symbol.
   (E)   Biomedical waste shall be disposed of in compliance with 29 CFR
1910.1030. Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in approved sharps
disposal containers. Storage of contaminated waste on site shall comply with
regulations in 29 CFR 1910.1030, and storage of regulated waste awaiting pick-
up shall not exceed 30 days when first non-sharps item is placed in an approved
bag or when a sharps container containing only sharps is sealed.
(1993 Code, § 77.23) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.34 DISEASES.
   (A)   Any skin or mucosa surface to receive a body art procedure shall be
free of rash or any visible infection.
   (B)   The skin of the operator/technician shall be free of rash or
infection. No person or operator affected with boils, infected wounds, open
sores, abrasions, keloids, weeping dermatological lesions or acute respiratory
infection shall work in any area of a body art establishment in any capacity in
which there is likelihood that they could contaminate body art equipment,
supplies or working surfaces with body substances or pathogenic organisms.
   (C)   All infections, complications or diseases resulting from any body art
procedure that becomes known to the operator shall be reported to the
Department by the operator within 24 hours.
(1993 Code, § 77.24) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.35 PREPARATION OF SKIN AND AFTERCARE.
   (A)   There shall be no smoking, eating or drinking by anyone in the area
where body art is performed.
   (B)   Instruments used for body art shall remain stored in sterile packages
until just prior to performing a body art procedure. When assembling
instruments used for performing body art procedures, the operator shall wear
disposable medical gloves and use medically recognized techniques to ensure
that the instruments and gloves are not contaminated.
   (C)   All inks, dyes, pigments, needles and equipment shall be specifically
manufactured for performing body art procedures and shall be used according to
manufacturer’s instructions, The mixing of approved inks, dyes or pigments or
their dilution with distilled or sterile water is acceptable. Immediately
before applying a tattoo, the quantity of the dye to be used shall be
transferred from the dye bottle and placed into single use paper cups or
plastic cups. Upon completion of the tattoo, these single cups or caps and
their contents shall be discarded.
   (D)   Before performing a body art procedure, the immediate and surrounding
area of the skin where the body art procedure is to be placed shall be washed
with soap and water or an approved surgical skin preparation, depending on the
type of body art to be performed. If shaving is necessary, single use
disposable razors or safety razors with single service blades shall be used and
discarded after each use and the reusable holder shall be autoclaved after each
use. Following shaving, the skin and surrounding area will be washed with soap
and water. The washing pad shall be discarded after a single use.
   (E)   All products used to check the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall
be sterile, single use and disposed of immediately after use in appropriate
covered containers.
   (F)   Single use items shall not be used on more than one client for any
reason. After use, all single use needles, razors and other sharps shall be
immediately disposed of in approved sharps containers.
   (G)   All products applied to the skin, including body art stencils shall be
single use and disposable. Acetate stencils shall be allowed for re-use if
sanitization procedures are performed between uses. Petroleum jellies, soaps
and other products used in the application of stencils shall be dispensed and
applied on the area to be tattooed with sterile gauze or in a manner to prevent
contamination of the original container and its contents. The gauze shall be
used only once and then discarded.
   (H)   If performing microblading or manual procedures, a handpiece shall be
considered single use, only to be used on one customer. It cannot be reused on
another customer. After use on a single customer, the handpiece shall be fully
disposed of into the sharps container. Any remaining equipment also must be
disposed of into the sharps container.
   (I)   Verbal and written public educational information, approved by the
Department, shall be required to be given to all clients wanting to receive
body art procedure(s). Verbal and written instructions, approved by the
Department, for the aftercare of the body art procedure site shall be provided
to each client by the operator upon completion of the procedure. The written
instructions shall advise the client to consult a physician at the first sight
of infection or swelling and shall contain the name, address and phone number
of the body art establishment. These documents shall be signed and dated by
both parties, with a copy given to the client and the operator retaining the
original with all other required records.
(1993 Code, § 77.25) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.36 EQUIPMENT SANITATION AND STERILIZATION.
   (A)   All equipment and devices used to clean and sterilize body art
materials and reusable instruments must be suitable for their intended use. The
equipment and devises must be used, cleaned, and maintained according to
manufacturer’s instructions. A copy of the manufacturer’s recommended
procedures for the operation of the equipment must be available for inspection.
All body art establishments must have at least two working autoclaves on-site.
All other forms of sterilization are prohibited.
   (B)   All non-single use, non-disposable instruments used for body art shall
be cleaned thoroughly after each use by scrubbing with an appropriate soap or
disinfectant solution and hot water or follow the manufacturer’s instructions
to remove blood and tissue residue, and placed in an ultrasonic unit which will
also be operated in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. Instruments
shall be rinsed post ultrasonic cycle, dried, and inspected prior to packaging.
   (C)   After cleaning, all non-disposable instruments used for body art shall
be packed individually in peel-packs and subsequently sterilized. All peel-
packs shall contain either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature
indicator. Peel-packs must be dated with an expiration date not to exceed six
months.
   (D)   All cleaned, non-disposable instruments used for body art shall be
sterilized in a steam autoclave. The autoclave shall be used, cleaned and
maintained according to manufacturer’s instruction. A copy of the
manufacturer’s recommended procedures for the operation of their sterilization
unit must be available for inspection by the Department. Sterile equipment may
not be used if the package has been compromised or after the expiration date
without first repackaging and resterilizing. Non-disposable instrument cleaning
shall be conducted in a sterilization room or sterilization area.
   (E)   The body art establishment shall demonstrate that the autoclaves used
are capable of attaining sterilization by monthly spore destruction tests.
These tests shall be verified through an independent laboratory.
   (F)   After sterilization, the instruments used for body art shall be stored
in a dry, clean cabinet or other tightly covered container reserved for the
storage of such instruments.
   (G)   An autoclave, ultrasonic, and sterilization room or sterilization area
is not required if the body art establishment uses only pre-sterilized
disposable instruments, pre-sterilized body art materials, and pre-sterilized
supplies.
   (H)   Kneeling pads, other pads, and contact surfaces such as, but not
limited to, machine head and clip cords, shall be cleaned and disinfected after
each use. Such contact surfaces shall be disinfected by rinsing, spraying or
swabbing with a disinfectant.
   (I)   Procedures for responding to a positive spore test. If a single
positive spore test is found, the autoclave shall be removed from service, and
operating procedures reviewed. Another spore test can be conducted on the
failed autoclave. Document procedures taken in sterilization log. Recall and
process all items processed since the last negative spore test in the second
autoclave that has negative spore test results.
(1993 Code, § 77.26) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.37 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Potable water supply shall be constructed and operated in accordance
with the law.
   (B)   All water-carried waste shall be disposed of by discharging into a
sewerage system operated and maintained under permit the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA), or a private sewage system constructed in accordance
with the State Private Sewage Licensing Act and Code.
   (C)   All solid waste, except biomedical waste outlined in §
77.33(D), shall be kept in durable containers that do not leak or absorb
liquids.
   (D)   Containers stored outside the establishment shall be provided with
tight-fitting lids and kept covered when not in use.
(1993 Code, § 77.27) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.38 PREMISES.
   (A)   All walls, floors, ceilings and all procedure surfaces of a body art
establishment shall be smooth, non-absorbent, free of open holes or cracks,
light colored, washable and in good repair. Walls, floors and ceilings shall be
maintained in a clean condition. All procedure surfaces, including client
chairs/benches shall be of such construction as to be easily cleaned and
disinfected after each client. All body art establishments shall be completely
separated by solid partitions or by walls extending from floor to ceiling, from
any room used for human habitation, a food establishment or room where food is
prepared, a hair salon, retail sales or other such activity which may cause
potential contamination of work surfaces.
   (B)   Effective measures shall be taken by the operator to protect the
entrance into the establishment and the breeding or presence on the premises of
insects, vermin and rodents. Evidence of insects, vermin and rodents shall not
be present in any part of the establishment.
   (C)   Each establishment shall have an area that may be screened from public
view for clients requesting privacy. Dividers, curtains or partitions shall
separate multiple body art stations.
   (D)   The establishment shall be well-ventilated and provided with an
artificial light source equivalent to at least 20 foot candles three feet off
the floor, except that at least 100 foot candles shall be provided at the level
where the body art procedure is being performed, and where instruments and
sharps are assembled.
   (E)   A separate hand sink with hot and cold running water, under pressure,
preferably equipped with wrist or foot operated controls and supplied with
liquid soap, and disposable paper towels shall be readily accessible within a
body art procedural area. One handsink shall serve no more than three
operators. In addition, there shall be a minimum of one lavatory, excluding any
service sinks, and one toilet in a body art establishment.
   (F)   At least one lined, covered waste receptacle shall be provided in each
operator area and each toilet room. All refuse containers shall be easily
cleanable.
   (G)   If reusable instruments are used in a body art establishment, a
separate sterilization room or sterilization area is required. The
sterilization area shall have the following:
      (1)   A sink used only for cleaning contaminated instruments. This sink
should not be used for handwashing nor as a mop sink.
      (2)   A handsink for handwashing.
      (3)   A covered ultrasonic and/or instrument washer.
      (4)   No other services including but not limited to tattooing, piercing,
or retail sales may occur within this sterilization room/area.
      (5)   The covered ultrasonic unit and the sink used for rinsing and
scrubbing contamination tools shall be separated from the autoclave to prevent
contamination.
   (H)   All instruments and supplies shall be stored in clean, dry and covered
containers.
   (I)   No reusable cloth or similar material-items may be used in a body art
establishment. No multiple use materials may be employed for body art
procedures unless they are nonporous and can be cleaned and disinfected.
   (J)   No animals of any kind shall be allowed in a body art establishment
except service animals used by persons with disabilities. Fish aquariums may be
allowed in waiting rooms and non-procedural areas. Fish aquariums must contain
only aquatic species that can survive under water for a minimum of 48 hours.
   (K)   The establishment shall have a dedicated mop sink, the service sink
for cleaning contaminated instruments shall not be used also for the purpose of
a mop sink.
(1993 Code, § 77.28) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.39 CONSTRUCTION AND REMODELING.
   When a body art establishment is constructed or remodeled, or whenever an
existing structure is converted to use as a body art establishment, plans and
specifications for such construction, remodeling or conversion shall be
submitted to the Health Officer for review and approval before construction,
remodeling or conversion may begin.
(1993 Code, § 77.29) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 77.50 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall conduct at least one inspection annually of
each body art establishment operating in the county. As many additional
inspections and reinspections as are necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter will be made.
   (B)   The Health Officer, after proper identification, shall be permitted to
inspect, at any reasonable time, any body art establishment or operator/
technician, for the purpose of determining compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Whenever an inspection of an establishment and/or operator(s) is made,
the findings shall be recorded on a standardized inspection report form. One
copy of the completed inspection report form will be furnished to the permit
holder at the time of inspection. If violations of this chapter exist, the
inspection report shall serve as official notice to the permit holder that the
establishment is in violation of the provisions of this chapter. The completed
inspection report form shall specify the violations found by the Health
Officer, and shall establish a reasonable time period within which said
violations must be corrected.
   (D)   If the Department has reasonable cause to suspect that a communicable
disease is, or may be transmitted by an operator, use of unapproved or
malfunctioning equipment, or unsanitary or unsafe conditions which may
adversely impact the health of the public, upon written notice to the owner or
operator, the Department may do any or all of the following:
      (1)   Issue an order excluding any or all operators from the permitted
body art establishment who are responsible, or reasonable appear responsible,
for the transmission of a communicable disease until the Department determines
there is no further risk to public health; and/or
      (2)   Issue an order to immediately suspend the permit of the licensed
establishment until the Department determines there is no further risk to the
public health. Such an order shall state the cause for the action.
(1993 Code, § 77.40) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute an offense pursuant to 55 ILCS 5/
5-1052, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 77.99) (Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-17-2006; Ord. 2020-03, passed 3-
18-2020)
CHAPTER 78: ELECTRONIC REPORTING OF PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
   
78.01   Purpose
   
78.02   Definitions
   
78.03   Electronic record keeping requirement
   
78.04   Record of transactions
   
78.05   Exemptions
§ 78.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to aid in the deterrence of crime and assist
law enforcement in the investigation, identification, and return of stolen
goods, which are frequently deposited or pledged with pawnbrokers or secondhand
dealers, as the Madison County Sheriffs Department has reported that
identifying and retrieving stolen goods from such businesses and identifying
the person who sold such stolen goods has proven to be a difficult and labor-
intensive task.
   (B)   This chapter and associated electronic recordkeeping requirement is
written in accordance with state law. Record requirements, which states: (a)
Except in municipalities located in counties having 3,000,000 or more
inhabitants, every pawn and loan broker shall keep a standard record book that
has been approved by the sheriff of the county in which the pawnbroker does
business.
   (C)   It shall be the mandate per the sheriff of Madison County that
LeadsOnline will be the required online database reporting system utilized by
entities falling under the purview of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 78.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and usual
sense, except where used in a technical sense or where context or the intent of
the County Board of Health indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER or PAWNER. Any person or entity who, within Madison County,
Illinois, deposits, pledges, sells, trades, barters or exchanges personal
property, secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable things to a
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person or entity who, within Madison County, Illinois, loans
money on deposit or pledge of personal property, secondhand goods, wares,
merchandise or other valuable things, or who deals in the purchasing of
personal property, secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable
things on the condition of selling the same back at a stipulated price, whether
he or she does the same for him or herself, or as an agent of some person or
firm or corporation, who by any means, method or device loans money for
personal property when same is deposited for security or is deposited for any
other purpose.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person or entity, who, within Madison County,
Illinois, as a business, engages in the purchase, sale, trade, barter, or
exchange of secondhand goods, wares or merchandise; or any person who keeps any
store, shop, room or place where secondhand goods, wares or merchandise of any
kind or description, are bought,  sold, traded, bartered, recycled or exchanged
is defined as a secondhand dealer within the meaning of this chapter; provided,
however, that this chapter shall not apply to bona fide trade or turn-ins of
secondhand goods, wares or merchandise or other good where no cash is
transferred or paid by the merchant, or to auction houses or to the transaction
of any property that it titled and of record with a state or the federal
government, or entities/individuals engaged in the purchasing of scrap metals.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 78.03 ELECTRONIC RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any and all pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers doing business within
Madison County, Illinois shall, beginning on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived, register with LeadsOnline at
www.leadsonline.com and shall upload, on at least a daily basis, all
information relating to personal property, secondhand goods, wares, merchandise
or other valuable things purchased, received, or otherwise acquired by such
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to the databases maintained by LeadsOnline. For
each transaction involving the receipt of personal property, secondhand goods,
wares, merchandise or other valuable things, the pawnbroker or secondhand
dealer shall record or report the following information:
      (1)   The name, current address, date of birth, and digital copy of the
current government issued photo ID of the pawner or customer; date and time of
the transactions; and description and photograph of each article;
      (2)   For each article of personal property, secondhand goods, wares,
merchandise or other valuable things, the following shall be provided if
applicable: type, brand name/make/manufacturer, model number, serial number or
other identification number installed by the manufacturer; the description
shall also include every other identifying marking, such as an inscription, a
social security number, a name, a nickname or address appearing on the item,
and color/finish and any other identifying marks, writing or engraving;
      (3)   The description of each watch shall include: the brand name, model
number, metal or metals of composition, a description of the band, a
description of the face numbers, the color, cut and type of stone or stones and
any inscriptions appearing on the watch;
      (4)   The description of each item of jewelry shall include the type of
metal or metals of composition, the type and cut of each stone, all
inscriptions and the weight of each item;
      (5)   A digital photograph of each article of personal property,
secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable things with sufficient
detail to allow reasonable identification of the article; and
      (6)   For articles that are not individually identifiable, articles may
be described in groups of similar type, but only within the same transaction
made by the same pawner or customer.
   (B)   There shall be no direct cost to the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer
for the registration with LeadsOnline or with the uploading of the information
required by this chapter, other than the cost of computers and internet
service.
   (C)   All costs charged for the use of the LeadsOnline service shall be
borne by the Madison County Sheriffs Department from its current budget.
   (D)   It shall be a defense to compliance with this chapter if the
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer is able to prove that a power failure or
computer system malfunction prohibited timely entry of the required data into
LeadsOnline and the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer promptly uploaded the
required data within 24 hours of computer system restoration.
   (E)   Should a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer fail to maintain an operable
computer system so as to prohibit the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer from
complying with this chapter, then the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer may be
cited for failure to comply with this chapter.
   (F)   The failure of any pawnbroker or secondhand deafer to strictly comply
with the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a Class A misdemeanor and
shall be punishable by a fine of $500 for a first violation and $1,000 for
subsequent violations. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 78.04 RECORD OF TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Throughout the term of the license, every pawnbroker and secondhand
dealer shall report/upload to LeadsOnline, the required information for each
and every transaction conducted during each day they are open for business by
the end of that business day. All information shall be recorded in the English
language.
   (B)   A transaction shall consist of all articles brought in to a pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer for purchase, sale, barter, trade, pledge, recycling,
exchange, or pawn by an individual (customer or pawner) at one specific time
and date. Articles brought in to a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer for
purchase, sale, barter, trade, pledge, exchange or pawn at different times or
different dates by the same person shall be considered separate transactions,
regardless of how short the difference in time is between those transactions.
Separate transactions, either from the same person or different persons, shall
not be combined and reported collectively.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 78.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the purchase or sale of used motor vehicles,
including motorcycles and motor driven cycles, as defined in the Illinois
Vehicle Code, nor shall it apply to charitable organizations that accept
donated goods for resale as a fund-raising program for the charity.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-11-2019)
TITLE IX: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
90.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
91.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
92.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
93.   ZONING CODE
      
94.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Permits
   
90.01   Contents
   
90.02   Discontinuing issuance of permits
Adoption of Regulatory Codes
   
90.15   Incorporation of certain documents and information by reference
   
90.16   Building codes and regulations adopted by reference
Sump Pumps
   
90.30   Discharge regulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 90.01 CONTENTS.
   The County Board shall forward a copy of any building or occupancy permit
that it receives to the Township Assessor and to the County Assessor within 15
days of issuance of such permit. Such permit shall show the complete legal
description of the area to which such permit pertains; and, if the area has a
“real estate number,” as defined and referred to in 35 ILCS 200/1 et seq., then
there shall be included in the application the real estate index number.
(1993 Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 DISCONTINUING ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The County Board may discontinue the issuing of permits within a
prescribed area if it determines the issuing of further building permits would
be a danger to health or welfare.
   (B)   If the Board makes such a determination, it must give public notice of
its decision by one publication in a newspaper having general circulation. This
notice must state the Board’s decision to discontinue issuance of building
permits in the prescribed area, the location of the designated area and the
condition or hazard constituting the danger to health or welfare.
(55 ILCS 5/5-1112) (1993 Code, § 90.02)
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES
§ 90.15 INCORPORATION OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The county has adopted all the necessary codes for construction in
unincorporated areas as allowed by 55 ILCS 5/5-6001 et seq.
   (B)   The alterations are on file in both the Office of the County Building
and Zoning Department and the County Clerk.
   (D)   This information will be on file in the office of the County Clerk for
visual inspection, as well as available in the offices of the Planning and
Development Department, and is hereby adopted and incorporated in this code as
if fully set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 90.10) (Ord. 89-8, passed 4-19-1989; Ord. 2009-05, passed 6-17-
2009; Ord. 22, passed 12-15-2010; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 90.16 BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following Codes are adopted by reference and made a parte hereof
as if appearing in total:
      (1)   2012 International Building Code (IBC) in its entirety;
      (2)   2012 International Residential Code (IRC, in its entirety except
Section R314 “Automatic Fire Sprinkler System” and R501.3 and its exceptions;
      (3)   2012 International Fire Code (IFC) in its entirety;
      (4)   2005 National Electric Code;
      (5)   2009 International Energy Conservation Code;
      (6)   2012 International Mechanical Code (IMC) in its entirety;
      (7)   Illinois Plumbing Code;
      (8)   Illinois Private Sewage Code; and
      (9)   2012 International Property Code (OPMC) in its entirety.
   (B)   Three copies of the Codes adopted in division (A) are on file in the
County Clerk’s office for visual inspection.
SUMP PUMPS
§ 90.30 DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations. Sump pump discharge in any manner other than as specified
by this section shall constitute a violation thereof and shall subject the
offender to penalties as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Connection. Every foundation drain shall be connected to a sump pit
containing an approved sump pump pursuant to the regulations set forth in the
plumbing regulations of the state, and as specified elsewhere in the county
building and zoning code.
   (C)   Installation. Sump pumps are to be installed for the purpose of
discharging clear water from foundation drains and ground infiltration and
shall either discharge into an underground conduit leading to a drainage ditch
for that purpose, or shall discharge onto the ground of the property owner at
least two feet or more from the building from which the water is being pumped,
and not closer than ten feet from the property of adjacent owners or roadside
ditches. The point of discharge shall be determined at the point where the
water is discharged upon the ground.
   (D)   Road Commission; roadside ditches. Nothing in this section shall
interfere with the ability of the local Road Commissioner to allow or prohibit
discharges into roadside ditches.
   (E)   Drainage facilities; alteration or interference. No property owner
shall willfully alter, interfere with or block access to drainage facilities
that were constructed as subdivision or development improvements.
   (F)   Violation. No water shall be discharged from a sump pump if the
discharge creates icing problems on roads or walkways, or creates a situation
causing damages to roads or to property or creates ponds of standing or
stagnant water.
   (G)   Correction. If such condition exists or is created, the Building
Official shall require the owner of the property discharging the water to
install an underground lateral or surface discharge connection which shall
cause the water from the sump pump to be discharged in such a manner as not to
interfere with the use of property by adjacent property owners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined a maximum amount of $1,000. Each day such violation
or failure to comply is permitted to exist after notification thereof shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 82-13, passed 4-21-1982; Ord. 2008-03, passed 6-18-
2008)
CHAPTER 91: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Short title
   
91.002   Scope
   
91.003   Continued compliance with provisions required
   
91.004   State Department of Public Health rules and regulations adopted
   
91.005   Conflict with other ordinances
   
91.006   Definitions
Licensing Regulations
   
91.020   Construction of mobile home park; permit required
   
91.021   License for mobile home park required
Location, Design and Requirements
   
91.035   Park location
   
91.036   Park layout
   
91.037   Fire protection
   
91.038   Service buildings and service building requirements
   
91.039   Water supply
   
91.040   Sewage disposal
   
91.041   Plumbing regulations
   
91.042   Refuse disposal and pest control
   
91.043   Liquid and gas piping and storage
   
91.044   Electrical distribution lines and service
Supplementary Regulations
   
91.055   Dependent mobile homes
   
91.056   Accessory buildings
   
91.057   Skirting
   
91.058   Tie downs
   
91.059   Other site construction
   
91.060   Standards of construction
   
91.061   Display title
   
91.062   Enforcement of supplementary regulations
Maintenance and Operation Regulations
   
91.075   Notification of rules and regulations
   
91.076   Local rules and regulations
   
91.077   Supervision and responsibility
   
91.078   Registration
   
91.079   Communicable diseases
   
91.080   Automobiles, unlicensed or junk
   
91.081   Lumber or building materials
   
91.082   Weeds or refuse
   
91.083   Owner or developer to secure zoning and building permits
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.095   Enforcement
   
91.096   Office of License Investigation
   
91.097   Revocation of license
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   R-6 Mobile Home Park District, see §
93.027
Statutory reference:
   Mobile Home Park Act, see 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to and cited as the “Mobile Home Park
Code of Madison County, Illinois.”
(1993 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
§ 91.002 SCOPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain upon any property
owned or controlled by him or her, any mobile home park within the jurisdiction
of the county, without first having secured a license therefor, in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. This chapter does not relieve persons
owning mobile homes or persons owning mobile home parks from complying with any
state law or regulation, or other county ordinance or zoning ordinance, or any
municipal ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 CONTINUED COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   The person to whom license for a mobile home park is issued or transferred
to shall at all times operate the park in compliance with this chapter and
regulations issued thereunder, and shall provide supervision to maintain the
park, its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition at all times. The license issued by the County Clerk shall
be conspicuously posted in the office of the mobile home park at all times.
(1993 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 STATE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The rules and regulations for mobile home parks adopted by the State
Department of Public Health, as amended from time to time and as are in effect,
shall be the minimum standard or requirement acceptable to the County Board of
Supervisors; excepting, however, when a higher standard or requirement shall be
met.
(1993 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This chapter shall supersede such other ordinances or parts of other
ordinances of the county in conflict with the provisions of this chapter,
provided that nothing herein shall in any way excuse or prevent prosecution of
any previous or existing violation of any ordinance superseded hereby. Whenever
this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is imposed and required by
other provisions of law or by other rules and resolutions, the more restrictive
requirement shall apply. The provisions of a resolution governing lodging for
transients, approved October 16, 1968, §§
74.20 through
74.23 are expressly repealed as the same pertains to the regulation of a
trailer park or camp or a place accommodating trailers when the same are
constructed to be mobile homes or mobile home parks as defined in §
91.006.
(1993 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
Cross-reference:
   Lodging of transients, see §§
74.20 through
74.23
§ 91.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building or structure, the use
of which is customarily incidental to that of the main building or structure,
and which is located on the same lot with the main building or use.
   BUILDING CODE. The County Building Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The main building or structure on a lot as
distinguished from an accessory building.
   BUILDING, SERVICE. The building in which there is provided laundry
facilities and other such facilities as may be required or permitted by this
chapter.
   CONSTRUCTION PERMIT. The certificate of approval for construction of the
mobile home park issued by the Building and Zoning Department as specified in §
91.005.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Public Health.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as
living quarters for one or more families, other than hotels, motels, tourist
homes, clubs, hospitals or similar uses.
   LICENSE COMMITTEE. A committee consisting of the following officials of the
county or their duly authorized representatives, the License Committee of the
County Board of Supervisors.
   LICENSE. A certificate issued by the County Clerk allowing the operation of
the mobile home park under the provisions of this chapter and the applicable
provisions of the zoning code.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or
subsequent locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and
designed to permit occupancy as a dwelling place for one or more persons.
However, any such structure served by individual utilities and resting on a
permanent foundation, with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed, shall
not be construed as a MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have toilet and bath or
shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME INDEPENDENT. A mobile home with self-contained toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. That portion of the mobile space designed to be occupied by
the mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of lands
upon which two or more independent mobile homes are located for permanent
habitation either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a
part of the equipment of the MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOBILE HOME SITE. Synonymous with MOBILE HOME SPACE.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. The lot on which the mobile home is located for permanent
habitation.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. Every vehicle originally designed or permanently
converted and primarily used for living quarters or for human habitation and
not used as a commercial vehicle, including any house, car, house trailer,
camper or private living coach.
   RESIDENCE. A stationary detached principal building designed for or used as
a dwelling as distinguished from a mobile (dwelling) home. A mobile home with
the wheels and tongue removed and placed on a permanent foundation shall be
deemed a stationary RESIDENCE.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the
Mobile Home Park Act, being 210 ILCS 115/1 et seq., as issued and enforced by
the State Department of Public Health.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning code for the county,
Chapter 93.
(1993 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 91.020 CONSTRUCTION OF MOBILE HOME PARK; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   License Committee. In order to obtain the approval of the License
Committee, the applicant shall first obtain the approval of the Zoning Board of
Appeals and the County Board of Supervisors. Then application may be made to
the Committee. The applicant must submit the written approval of the zoning
change. In conjunction with this, the applicant must make application to the
State Department of Public Health for a permit. Upon approval by the Committee,
then application may be made to the Building and Zoning Department for the
construction permit. No permit shall be issued by the Building and Zoning
Department until such time as they receive a written approval from the
Committee.
   (B)   Committee approval. In order to obtain approval of the Committee, the
following information must also be submitted:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants, or names
and addresses of the partners of the applicant if a partnership, or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain a mobile home park;
      (3)   Proposed and existing facilities at the mobile home park for
sewage, garbage and waste disposal; for water supply; fire protection; and for
a sanitary community building, if provided; and the proposed alterations
therein and maintenance thereof;
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (5)   The park plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing building and facilities or the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities, all as may be required by the provisions of this code and
the rules and regulations of the State Department of Public Health;
      (6)   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home park; and
      (7)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters
contained in the application shall be attached thereto. Each application fee
shall be paid to the County Clerk in cash or by a separate certified check or
United States money order in the amount of the application fee; the application
fee once paid to the Clerk shall not be refunded. Each application shall be
accompanied by an application fee of $25.
   (C)   Amendment of the park plan. Once the Board has approved the permanent
park plan, the applicant may amend the plan only by the following procedures.
      (1)   The applicant shall first submit a written request or amendment of
the park plan to the Committee and the Building and Zoning Department. This
request shall include a detailed explanation of the amendment; including an
impact statement.
      (2)   Each amendment request shall be accompanied by the amendment fee of
$15. Each such fee shall be paid to the Clerk in cash or by a separate
certified check or United States money order in the amount of the amendment
request fee; this application fee, once paid to the Clerk, shall not be
refunded.
      (3)   Only upon the receipt of the written consent of the Building and
Zoning Department shall an amendment request be considered approved and shall
the applicant construct a mobile home park varying from the park plan approved
by the Board.
      (4)   The Building and Zoning Department shall approve an amendment
request only upon showing by the applicant that the amendment will conform to
this chapter, the zoning code,
Chapter 93 and the rules and regulations.
(1993 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 91.021 LICENSE FOR MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIRED.
   (A)   Inspection for conformity.
      (1)   If a permit to construct a mobile home park has been issued, the
applicant upon completion thereof shall notify the license investigator who
shall then inspect the mobile home park to determine whether the provisions of
this code have been met and shall forward his or her findings and report to the
License Committee. If the Committee finds the mobile home park constructed in
accordance with the accepted application, the County Clerk shall issue the
license.
      (2)   The Committee or any member thereof or any representative thereof
and any authorized representative of the State Department of Public Health or
the State Department of Revenue is authorized to enter upon the premises of any
existing mobile home park or any proposed mobile home park for which a permit
or license has been issued at any reasonable time without further authorization
in order to inspect the premises and perform the duties provided for herein.
The Committee shall inspect, at least twice a year, each mobile home park
licensed under this code to determine compliance and shall note, and act upon
each violation.
   (B)   Refusal and revocation of license.
      (1)   Any person refused a license or whose license is suspended or
revoked shall have the right to a hearing before the Committee. The Committee
shall notify, in writing, the applicant or licensee stating the reasons for
refusal or revocation of license.
      (2)   If a special use permit is required in accordance with the zoning
code and the permit is revoked by the Zoning Board of Appeals, the license to
operate and maintain a mobile home park shall become null and void.
   (C)   Issuance of license, expiration and renewal. No person shall
establish, maintain, conduct or operate a mobile home park after the adoption
of this code without first obtaining a license from the County Clerk. This
license shall expire midnight, June 30 of each year and the license shall be
renewed from year to year upon payment of the annual license fee. All licenses
to operate a mobile home park shall be prominently displayed in the office of
the mobile home park. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be
nontransferable without the written consent of the Committee.
   (D)   Annual license fee.
      (1)   In addition to application and permit fees, the licensee shall pay
the Clerk on or before June 30 of each year an annual license fee which shall
be $50. Each license fee shall be paid to the Clerk in cash or by a separate
certified check or United States money order in the amount of the license only;
any license fee or any part once paid to and accepted by the Clerk shall not be
refunded.
      (2)   Any license fees paid prior to June 9, 1975, to the county shall be
deducted from the amount due to the county.
(1993 Code, § 91.16) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
LOCATION, DESIGN AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 91.035 PARK LOCATION.
   (A)   Each mobile home park licensed or to be constructed under this code
shall be constructed, operated and maintained in accordance with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Mobile home parks shall be constructed so as to provide a well drained
site and shall be constructed so as to be free from marshes, swamps or other
potential breeding places for insects and shall not be subject to flooding or
ponding.
(1993 Code, § 91.20) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 PARK LAYOUT.
   (A)   The arrangement of mobile homes within the mobile home park shall
conform to the applicable provisions of the building regulations, Chapter 90
and zoning code, Chapter 93.
   (B)   Paved walkways at least four feet wide shall be provided in the
immediate vicinity of the service building and shall be adequately lighted.
   (C)   Access roadway for ingress and egress shall be the same type of
pavement as within the mobile home park, or shall be constructed according to
the standards of the owning authority of the improvement surface of the
adjoining public road, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Driveways or access ways within the mobile home park shall be
provided with a dust-free, smooth riding surface and pavement sub-base course
or its equivalent to afford proper sub-surface drainage.
      (2)   Driveways or access ways within the mobile home park shall not be
less than 24 feet in width, including the concrete or bituminous curb and
gutter of the mountable type. Streets shall be bounded by concrete curb and
gutter not less than six inches in thickness and have a minimum width of 24
inches, or the equivalent drainage facilities in order to control and disperse
the necessary storm drainage.
   (D)   (1)   Footings must be placed on level, firm, undisturbed soil or
compacted or controlled fill that is free of grass and organic materials,
compacted to a minimum load bearing capacity of 2,000 pounds per square foot.
Pre-owned homes for which the manufacturer of the home is no longer in business
or for which the installation instructions are not available may be placed on
an existing footing system if the system meets the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   Foundations and footings may consist of the following:
         (a)   Individual pier footings consisting of precast or poured-in-
place individual pier footing concrete at least three and one-half inches thick
with a 28-day compressive strength of 3,000 pounds per square inch.
         (b)   Concrete runners a minimum of four inches thick under each I-
beam or perpendicular to the I-beams at no more than eight-foot intervals.
         (c)   Concrete pads a minimum of four inches thick the approximate
dimension of the home.
         (d)   Pressure treated wood having a 0.60 retention in accordance with
the AWPA C22-03 standard.
         (e)   Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) footing pads in accordance
with pad manufacturer installation instructions and listed for the required
load capacity and type of installation. Support devices and piers must not
overlap them.
   (E)   An off-street parking pad shall be required. This pad shall meet the
following requirements. An off-street parking pad shall be provided for at
least two cars. This pad shall be a minimum size of ten by 40 feet or 20 by 20
feet. This pad shall be of poured concrete at least four inches in thickness
and shall be reinforced by wire mesh. Additional off-street or on-street
parking to be provided shall be in compliance with the requirements of the
building regulations, Chapter 90 and zoning code, Chapter 93. This shall be of
a dustless or weather surface.
   (F)   Patio pads are permitted, but pads shall be of poured concrete and
shall be reinforced by wire mesh.
   (G)   All mobile homes shall be provided with a mobile home space with a
minimum of 3,200 square feet on parks in existence prior to September 1, 1971.
In any new courts or spaces, spaces shall contain at least 6,000 square feet.
Any mobile home court in existence prior to the adoption of this code shall be
permitted to remain in its present condition. Any new mobile home parks or
additions to existing mobile home parks shall be required to comply with all of
the present rules and regulations in effect.
   (H)   All mobile home spaces must be numbered in a uniform manner that is
visible from the street.
(1993 Code, § 91.21) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.037 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Mobile home parks and the mobile homes therein shall have such fire
prevention or firefighting equipment to comply with state laws and the rules
and regulations adopted by the Department of Public Health and approved by the
State Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Inspection of any equipment and enforcement of any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant to this section shall be performed by the Deputy
of the State Fire Marshal and local law enforcement agencies in the county or
municipality where the mobile home park is located.
(1993 Code, § 91.22) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 SERVICE BUILDINGS AND SERVICE BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A convenience service building providing laundry facilities or office
and storage accommodations may be constructed in the mobile home park.
   (B)   However, if such building and facilities are provided, the following
regulations shall apply.
      (1)   Such building shall be located at least 15 feet from any mobile
home, and at least ten feet from mobile home space.
      (2)   Shall be conveniently located, well constructed, having good
natural and artificial lighting, adequate ventilation and floors of concrete or
similar impervious materials.
      (3)   Shall be maintained at a temperature of at least 70°F during the
period from October 1 to May 1.
      (4)   The convenience service building may be provided with toilet rooms.
If provided, there shall be separate facilities for each sex, plainly marked by
appropriate signs. Each water closet shall be placed in a separate compartment
properly separated from other water closets, shall be not less than three feet
wide and shall be enclosed with proper partitions. Each toilet room shall be
completely enclosed and shall be properly ventilated with exhaust fans. No
laundry trays shall be located in the toilet rooms.
      (5)   An adequate supply of hot and cold water shall be provided at all
times in the convenience service building for laundry facilities.
      (6)   All applicable provisions of the rules and regulations, Building
Code, Electrical Code, Plumbing Code, Heating Code and the zoning code, shall
be complied with.
      (7)   Convenience service building designed or intended for use by
dependent mobile homes shall not be permitted.
      (8)   When community kitchens, dining rooms or other facilities are
provided, such facilities and equipment as are supplied must be maintained in a
sanitary condition and kept in good repair and subject to such rules and
regulations as may be issued by the State Department of Public Health.
(1993 Code, § 91.23) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.039 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   A safe and potable supply of water under pressure capable of
furnishing a minimum of 200 gallons per day per mobile home space, shall be
provided in each mobile home park. The number of mobile home spaces to be
occupied in the mobile home park shall be limited by the quantity of water
available to supply each mobile home with the minimum requirements. Each mobile
home space shall be provided with individual cold water tap, not less than
three-fourths inch in diameter and terminate at least four inches above
finished ground level. The plans and specifications of the water distribution
system shall be approved by the State Department of Public Health.
   (B)   Where an approved public supply of water is immediately adjacent or
within an economically feasible distance, as determined by the owner’s
qualified engineering representative, connection shall be made thereto and its
supply shall be used exclusively. An independent water supply to serve the
mobile home park may be permitted only after:
      (1)   A permit has been denied to connect onto a public water supply
system;
      (2)   Expressed approval has been granted in writing by the County Board
of Supervisors; and
      (3)   The plan and specification for the water system have been approved
by the State Department of Public Health.
(1993 Code, § 91.24) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.040 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Each mobile home shall be served by a central sewage collection system
and each mobile home shall be provided with at least a four-inch sewer
connection. The sewer connection shall be provided with suitable fittings so
that a water-tight, self-draining connection can be made between the mobile
home and the sewer connection. Such individual mobile home connection shall be
so constructed so that they can be closed when not linked to a mobile home and
shall be so capped as to prevent any escape of odor or gas. All water or waste
shall be approved by the State Department of Public Health and local
government.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall have a centralized sewage disposal system.
No individual septic system will be permitted. An independent sewage system to
serve the mobile home park shall be permitted only after:
      (1)   A permit has been denied to connect into a public sewage collection
system;
      (2)   Expressed approval has been obtained from the owner’s qualified
engineering representative;
      (3)   Expressed approval has been granted in writing by the County Board
of Supervisors; and
      (4)   The plans and specifications for the sewage system have been
approved by the State Department of Public Health.
(1993 Code, § 91.25) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   All plumbing in the mobile home park shall comply with the plumbing codes
and regulations as established by the state and shall be inspected and approved
by the Building and Zoning Department.
(1993 Code, § 91.26) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 REFUSE DISPOSAL AND PEST CONTROL.
   Satisfactory containers, racks or holders in accordance with the rules and
regulations adopted by the State Department of Public Health, shall be provided
at permanent locations convenient to mobile home spaces. Incinerators shall not
be permitted.
(1993 Code, § 91.27) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.043 LIQUID AND GAS PIPING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to heating
and/or cooking units in mobile homes shall be not less than standard weight,
wrought iron or steel pipe or brass or copper pipe of iron pipe size or
equivalent, and shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
All such fuel lines shall be provided with a stopcock at the outlet of the fuel
container and another stopcock just before the fuel line enters the mobile
home.
   (B)   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened in
place and shall not be located inside or beneath the mobile home or less than
15 feet from the mobile home front door. Fuel storage shall be permitted in
tanks or containers mounted on an incombustible frame at the rear of the mobile
home. Oil fuel containers shall be properly vented and shall not exceed 300-
gallon capacity; liquid petroleum and other such gaseous fuel containers shall
not exceed 500-gallon capacity. All fuel lines crossing the ground shall be
buried to the depth of one foot.
(1993 Code, § 91.28) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.044 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION LINES AND SERVICE.
   (A)   All new additions after November 1, 1972, to mobile home parks in
existence prior to November 1, 1972, and all new mobile home parks after
November 1, 1972, shall have all of their electrical distribution lines and all
electrical lines, buried at least 18 inches below ground surface and at least
one foot radial distance sewer, water or gas lines.
   (B)   Electrical connections for each individual mobile home space shall be
provided and each such connection shall supply 220 volts A.C. and shall be
rated at not less than 100 amperes. No connected electrical extension cord
shall lie on the ground or be suspended less than seven feet from the ground
above appurtenances and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
applicable codes and regulations.
   (C)   There shall be an average illumination of at least 150 watts every 150
feet or 40 watts per space at potential hazardous locations such as park
entrances, street and walkway intersections, or steps in addition to the
requirements of §
91.036(C).
(1993 Code, § 91.29) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 91.055 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES.
   A dependent mobile home shall not be located in any mobile home park within
the county.
(1993 Code, § 91.40) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No permanent addition shall be built onto or become part of any mobile
home.
   (B)   Temporary structures shall be permitted in accordance with the
following provisions and requirements.
      (1)   All temporary structures shall be built of a fire resistant
material. All temporary structures shall be in accordance with standards which
provide for the health and safety of the mobile home park residents.
      (2)   Cabanas, patios or porches are permitted, but at least one side
must be open except for screening for insects.
      (3)   Temporary structures may be entirely enclosed if utilized for
storage purposes only. Such a structure shall not have an area exceeding 2.5%
of the mobile home space, or 150 square feet whichever is the lesser.
(1993 Code, § 91.41) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 SKIRTING.
   (A)   Skirting of a mobile home which completely encloses the otherwise
exposed underneath portion of the mobile home is permitted. Partial,
dilapidated or incomplete skirting is not permitted. No skirting is permitted
which creates a safety or health hazard.
   (B)   Such skirting shall have at least two inspection doors of a sliding or
hinged type, located near the sewer riser and shall be a minimum of 24 inches
in width each.
   (C)   The installation of skirting of a mobile home is considered
construction, and a permit must be obtained from the license investigator prior
to the installation or construction of any skirting for any mobile home.
   (D)   No skirting is permitted which is made of material which is not fire
resistant. Materials other than metal are presumed not to be fire resistant.
Non-metal materials are permitted only upon presentation to the license
investigator of proof from the manufacturers of such materials that such
materials are in fact fire resistant.
(1993 Code, § 91.42) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. passed 1-19-1977) Penalty, see
§
91.999
§ 91.058 TIE DOWNS.
   Each mobile home must be tied down in a safe and secure manner. The mobile
home owner and the mobile home park owner shall be responsible for the safe and
secure tie down for each trailer.
(1993 Code, § 91.43) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.059 OTHER SITE CONSTRUCTION.
   No construction shall be permitted which will endanger the health and safety
of the mobile home park residents. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following types of construction: fencing, drilling, carports, lean-tos and
other such changes in the character of the mobile home site.
(1993 Code, § 91.44) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.060 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   Any newly purchased mobile home used for human habitation and located within
the county shall meet the United States of America Standards Institute/A119 1,
1969 edition, as revised periodically by July, 1972.
(1993 Code, § 91.45) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.061 DISPLAY TITLE.
   All mobile homes shall display a certificate of title in accordance with the
instructions of the Illinois Secretary of State.
(1993 Code, § 91.46) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.062 ENFORCEMENT OF SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sections
91.055 through
91.062 are subject to §§
91.095 through
91.097 and the provisions therein.
   (B)   No construction of any type is permitted without a construction
permit. No construction is permitted nor shall be approved which does not
comply with this chapter, or which otherwise endangers the health and safety of
the mobile home park resident. A construction permit must be obtained prior to
any construction by a mobile home resident, a mobile home owner or a mobile
home park owner. Construction permits must be obtained from the license
investigator prior to any construction, including, but not limited to, the
construction of fences, storage sheds of any type, porches, canopies, skirting
and any other construction of any kind.
(1993 Code, § 91.47) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. passed 1-19-1977) Penalty, see
§
91.999
MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION REGULATIONS
§ 91.075 NOTIFICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The mobile home park owner shall notify the mobile home residents of all
applicable provisions of the mobile home park law and rules and regulations for
mobile home parks and inform them of their duties and responsibilities required
by this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 91.60) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 LOCAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The mobile home park owner shall draft and adopt a separate set of
rules and regulations governing the maintenance of the mobile home park to keep
its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition. Under these rules and regulations, the mobile home park owner shall
identify the responsibilities of the management to the mobile home owner and
shall further identify the responsibilities of the resident in the mobile home
park.
   (B)   The local rules and regulations, established by the mobile home park
owner, shall contain, but not be limited to, the control of pets, the storage
of refuse and garbage, the design and construction of auxiliary structures, the
control of abandoned and unlicensed automobiles, the control of the growth of
weeds and grass, control of insects, rats and mice and all other rules and
regulations necessary to maintain the mobile home park, its facilities and
equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   The mobile home park residents shall be informed of the local rules
and regulations governing the maintenance and operation of the mobile home
park.
   (D)   The local rules and regulations, established by the mobile home park
owner, shall not relieve the mobile home park owner or caretaker of compliance
with the state mobile home park law or rules and regulations for mobile home
parks.
(1993 Code, § 91.61) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.077 SUPERVISION AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the mobile home park in compliance
with the state mobile home park law and rules and regulations for mobile home
parks and to keep its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The mobile home park owner or caretaker should inspect the mobile home
park weekly to determine that the potable water supply, sewage treatment
facilities and water and sewage service connection are functioning in a safe
and sanitary manner.
   (C)   The mobile home park owner or caretaker should inspect the mobile home
park daily to determine that the collection of garbage and refuse, cutting of
grass and weeds, the storage of lumber and construction materials, and the
removal of abandoned automobiles and equipment is being performed in a
satisfactory manner.
   (D)   The correction of all deficiencies, noted by the mobile home park
owner or caretaker must be accomplished within 15 working days.
   (E)   Each mobile home owner shall be responsible for the care and
maintenance of his or her allotted mobile home site as specified in this
subchapter. In addition, each mobile home park owner and/or caretaker shall be
responsible for the care and maintenance of each mobile home space, all common
grounds, roads and other areas controlled by himself or herself or his or her
renters, as specified in §§
91.075 through
91.083.
(1993 Code, § 91.62) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.078 REGISTRATION.
   Each mobile home park shall be provided with a custodian’s office where each
mobile home entering such park shall be assigned to a site, give a copy of the
park rules and register according to the prescribed form. Such registration
shall include the name address of the owner and every occupant of such mobile
home and the square feet of floor space contained in such mobile home. Such
registration shall also include the license number of such mobile home and of
the towing vehicle, if there be any, and the state issuing such licenses. The
register shall be signed by the owner or operator of the mobile home. Any
person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable under the general statutes for such
offense. The registration records shall be neatly and securely maintained and
no registration records shall be destroyed until six years have elapsed
following the date of registration. The register shall be available at all
times for inspection by all law enforcement officers and by the Investigation
Committee.
(1993 Code, § 91.63) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.079 COMMUNICABLE DISEASES.
   The mobile home park owner or caretaker shall notify the License Committee
immediately of any suspected communicable disease within the mobile home park.
(1993 Code, § 91.64) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.080 AUTOMOBILES, UNLICENSED OR JUNK.
   Vehicles which are unlicensed, or not in operating condition, or junk, or
derelict or otherwise a nuisance are not permitted in the mobile home park.
(1993 Code, § 91.65) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. passed 1-19-1977) Penalty, see
§
91.999
§ 91.081 LUMBER OR BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   No building materials shall be stored in a mobile home park.
   (B)   No business shall be permitted in a mobile home park. No business is
permitted to operate from a mobile home park. No merchandise or vehicles shall
be stored or sold in a mobile home park.
   (C)   No storage of goods and/or materials, no weeds and no junk shall be
permitted under a mobile home.
   (D)   The entire mobile home space including under the mobile home shall be
kept free of weeds, junk and storage.
(1993 Code, § 91.66) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. passed 1-19-1977) Penalty, see
§
91.999
§ 91.082 WEEDS OR REFUSE.
   Weeds, or refuse and garbage, or storage of goods and/or materials, or pets,
or junk, or rats and mice, or structures or other nuisances which create a
health or safety hazard shall not be permitted in the mobile home park.
(1993 Code, § 91.67) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. passed 1-19-1977) Penalty, see
§
91.999
§ 91.083 OWNER OR DEVELOPER TO SECURE ZONING AND BUILDING PERMITS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and/or developer of the mobile
home park to secure all proper zoning and building permits. Upon completion of
the development and/or individual pads, a final inspection shall be made on the
mobile home park upon its completion and upon the completion and approval of
the electrical service and the placement of the initial mobile home on the pad,
this is to be inspected by the Building and Zoning Department. A certificate of
occupancy must be issued to the lot or development in question prior to its
initial usage. This shall be verified to the License Committee.
(1993 Code, § 91.68) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.095 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the license investigator
shall administer and enforce this chapter, including the receiving of
applications and the inspection of premises.
   (B)   Whenever any work or other activity is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter or in case of any other violation of this chapter,
the license investigator, his or her deputy or his or her authorized
representative may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
person engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and any person shall
forthwith stop such work until authorized by the license investigator or his or
her authorized representative to proceed with the work.
   (C)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, any person including the
license investigator or other duly authorized county official, in addition to
and not by way of limiting other remedies available with or without issuance of
a stop order as above provided may file a complaint therefor with the License
Committee. The license investigator or his or her deputy or authorized
representative, may issue and/or serve a summons, citation or other process
issued by the Committee for any violation and may prosecute the violator
therefor in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1993 Code, § 91.80) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
§ 91.096 OFFICE OF LICENSE INVESTIGATION.
   This Office of License Investigation is charged with the enforcement of this
chapter and the position of license investigator is created.
(1993 Code, § 91.81) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
§ 91.097 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued to operate and maintain a mobile home park shall be
subject to revocation or suspension by the License Committee. However, the
Committee shall first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a written
notice by certified mail in which shall be specified the way or ways in which
this licensee has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter, or any
rules or regulation promulgated by the County Board of Supervisors or the State
Department of Public Health pertaining thereto. This notice shall require the
licensee to remove or abate such nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable
condition, or other objectionable violation specified in such notice within 15
days. For the purpose of §§
91.003 through
91.005 and §§
91.095 through
91.097, objectionable conditions shall include in its meaning, a failure to
comply with the provisions of §§
91.075 through
91.083. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions of this
notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the Committee
may revoke or suspend such license.
   (B)   Any person refused a permit to construct or alter a park, or a
license, or whose license is suspended or revoked, shall have the right to a
hearing before the Committee. A written notice of a request for such a hearing
shall be served upon the Committee within ten days of such refusal of a permit
to construct or alter, or refusal of a license or suspension or revocation
thereof.
   (C)   The hearing shall be conducted by the Committee, or a duly qualified
employee of the Committee designated in writing by the license investigator as
a Hearing Officer.
   (D)   The Committee may compel by subpoena or subpoena duces tecum the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books and paper,
and administer oaths to witnesses. The hearing shall be conducted at such place
as designated by the Committee, except that such hearing shall not be conducted
outside the county. The license investigator shall give written notice of the
time and place of hearing, by registered mail to the park operator or license
applicant, as the case may be, at least ten days prior to such hearing.
   (E)   In event of the inability of any party, or the Committee, to procure
the attendance of witnesses to give testimony or produce books and papers, such
party or the Committee, may take the deposition of witnesses in accordance with
the provisions of the laws of this state. All testimony taken at a hearing
shall be reduced to writing, and all such testimony and other evidence
introduced at the hearing shall be a part of the record of the hearing. Upon
request in writing a transcript of the proceedings shall be provided by the
county to the person, or party whose license was suspended or revoked or
refused a permit to alter or construct or park at a cost of $0.25 per page.
   (F)   The Committee shall make finding of fact in such hearing, and shall
render its decision within 30 days after the termination of the hearing, unless
additional time is requested for a proper disposition of the matter. It shall
be the duty of the license investigator to forward a copy of the decision, by
registered mail, to the park operator or applicant, as the case may be, within
five days after the rendering of such decision.
   (G)   Technical errors in the proceedings before the Committee or their
failure to observe the technical rules of evidence shall not constitute grounds
for the reversal of any administrative decision unless it appears to a court
that such error or failure materially affects the rights of any party and
results in substantial injustice to him or her.
   (H)   All subpoenas issued by the Committee may be served as provided in a
civil action. The fees of witnesses for attendance and travel shall be the same
as the fees for witnesses before the Circuit Court and shall be paid by the
party of such proceeding at whose request the party was produced. The witness
fee shall be paid as an administrative expense if the witness is produced by
the Committee.
   (I)   In cases of refusal of a witness to attend or testify, or to produce
books or papers, concerning any matter upon which he or she might be lawfully
examined, the Circuit Court of the county wherein the hearing is held, or a
judge thereof, upon application of any party to the proceeding, may compel
obedience by proceeding for contempt as in cases of a like refusal to obey a
similar order of the court.
   (J)   The Committee shall at the time of conducting the hearing provided
herein have an advisory member of the County Mobile Home Association certified
in writing by the Association’s Governor and Secretary as the chosen and
qualified representative of the Association for this purpose.
   (K)   The decision of the Committee is declared to be a “final decision” in
this proceeding and a further appeal to the County Board of Supervisors is not
necessary to exhaust administrative remedies.
   (L)   The Administrative Review Act (735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.), approved May
8, 1945, and all amendments and modification thereof, and the rules adopted
pursuant thereto, shall apply to govern all proceeding for judicial review of
final administrative decisions of the Committee hereunder. The term
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION is defined as set forth in 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
(1993 Code, § 91.82) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation by any person, corporation or otherwise, whether as
principal, agent, employee or otherwise, of any provision of this chapter shall
be a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine up to $500. Each day of the
continued violation shall be considered a separate misdemeanor and shall
subject the offender to the maximum penalties as herein specified.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall limit any other right or remedy of the county or
person of interest, including the right to obtain an injunction of any
violation from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 6-18-2008) (Ord. passed 6-9-1975)
CHAPTER 92: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Short title
   
92.002   Purpose
   
92.003   Interpretation
   
92.004   Jurisdiction
   
92.005   Incorporation of figures by reference
   
92.006   Disclaimer of liability
   
92.007   Definitions
   
92.008   Minimum specifications for public roads in developments with lots of
two acres or more
Subdivision Design and Improvements Standards
   
92.020   Suitability for subdivision
   
92.021   Reference monuments
   
92.022   Lot requirements
   
92.023   Street design standards
   
92.024   Street improvements standards
   
92.025   Sidewalk construction standards
   
92.026   Street names and street markers
   
92.027   Electrical power, telephone and cable antenna television (CATV) lines
   
92.028   Water facilities
   
92.029   Fire hydrants
   
92.030   Easements
   
92.031   Sanitary sewers
   
92.032   Drainage and storm sewers
   
92.033   Grading, erosion control
   
92.034   Reservation for public purposes
Plats and Plans
   
92.045   Preapplication conference
   
92.046   Preliminary plats
   
92.047   Improvements plans
   
92.048   Final plats
   
92.049   Matters related to recording
Assurances for the Construction and Maintenance of Required Improvements
   
92.060   Assurances generally
   
92.061   Completion security
   
92.062   Subdivider’s maintenance responsibilities
   
92.063   Maintenance security
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.075   Administrator’s duties
   
92.076   Vacation of plats
   
92.077   Subdivision variances
   
92.078   Amendments
   
92.079   Fees
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the “Land Subdivision Control
Regulations of Madison County, Illinois.”
(1993 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978)
§ 92.002 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with state law, these regulations control the subdivision and
future development of land in order to assist in achieving the following
objectives:
   (A)   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
   (B)   To implement the county transportation plan;
   (C)   To ensure a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and use of land;
   (D)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
   (E)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, dwellings
and other buildings throughout the county;
   (F)   To preserve the county’s natural beauty and topography to the maximum
feasible extent;
   (G)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
stormwater runoff, erosion and sedimentation and other hazards;
   (H)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments, and to
avoid traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the
proper location, design and construction of streets and sidewalks;
   (I)   To ensure the proper installation and maintenance of adequate water
mains, sanitary sewers, stormwater sewers and other utilities and services; and
   (J)   To provide a means for making adequate parks, schools and other public
facilities available to the residents of new developments.
(1993 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Maps, plats and subdivisions, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1041 and 765 ILCS 205/1
§ 92.003 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Considered minimal. These regulations shall be construed liberally in
favor of the county, and the requirements hereof shall be deemed minimal.
   (B)   Incorporate state law.
      (1)   These regulations incorporate all current provisions of and future
amendments to:
         (a)   765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.;
         (b)   55 ILCS 5/5-1041; and
         (c)   55 ILCS 5/3-5029.
      (2)   These regulations and statutes shall be construed together in such
manner as to give full effect to both the regulations and statutes, except in a
case of irreconcilable conflict. In case of irreconcilable conflict, the
statutes passed by the Illinois General Assembly are controlling to the extent
of the conflict.
(1993 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Res. 84-
1, passed 3-21-1984)
§ 92.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable in all unincorporated portions of the
county, provided, that special procedures shall be applicable to subdivisions
located within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of any
municipality which exercises extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction.
(1993 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty,
see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Special procedures regarding subdivisions near municipalities, see §
92.046
§ 92.005 INCORPORATION OF FIGURES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Certain design concepts, improvements standards and related matters
addressed herein, because of their highly technical nature, are exceedingly
difficult to express clearly in narrative fashion. Accordingly, the following
illustrations (figures) are incorporated into these regulations by reference:
   Figure 1: Sight Lines at Corners
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.jpg]
   Figure 2: Horizontal Curves
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.jpg]
   Figure 3: Reverse Curves
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
   Figure 4: Typical Street Cross-Section
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]
   Figure 5: Curb and Gutter
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.jpg]
   Figure 6: Inlets
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.jpg]
   (B)   The requirements indicated in the illustrations shall be as effective
and binding as the narrative portions of these regulations.
(1993 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty,
see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Drainage and storm sewers, see §
92.031
   Street design standards, see §
92.023
   Street improvements standards, see §
92.024
§ 92.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no official,
Board member, agent or employee of the county shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under these regulations.
(1993 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. passed 10-18-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1-101
§ 92.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The director of the County Building and Zoning Department in
his or her role as the chief administrator of these regulations, or his or her
duly authorized representative.
   ALLEY. A public access way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the site or rear of premises that front on a nearby street.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of these regulations enacted by the
County Board in accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed
for subdivision development, including any areas to be dedicated or reserved
for street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
   AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the tract proposed
for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley rights-of-
way or other public purposes.
   AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY. Any road which connects and provides direct access to
major traffic generators; provides secondary service to small communities;
provides access to abutting property; or has an estimated ADT at full
development of the subdivision of greater than 5,000 vehicles.
   BUILDING AND ZONING COMMITTEE. The Building and Zoning Committee of the
County Board.
   CATCHBASIN. See INLET.
   CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerlines of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both parallel
streets intersect.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate (ADT 1,000 to 5,000) volumes of traffic from land access streets
to arterial streets or area service highways.
   COUNTY. Madison County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Madison County, Illinois.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. Generally, the County Engineer; but in certain instances,
another licensed professional engineer designated by the County Board to
perform specified professional engineering services for the county.
   CROSS-SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way rather
than in the direction traffic moves on the right-of-way.
   CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of poured concrete as a
single facility.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic, and
having the other end permanently terminated by a turn around for vehicles; the
term may also be used to refer solely to the turnaround.
   DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land or
improvement to the county or other public entity without compensation.
   DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area.
   DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total amount
of residential acreage, not including the area for street and alley rights-of-
way public uses.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity, such as grading, in preparation therefor.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the county wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of the zoning code, Chapter 93.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek or ditch which
naturally carries stormwater runoff, or which is fed by street or building
gutters or by stormwater sewers.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s property, but only for a limited
and specifically named purpose.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street roughly paralleling an arterial street or
highway, used for access to abutting lots.
   GONE ON RECORD. Officially adopted by the legislative body of a
municipality, township, county, state or other governmental entity; or
officially adopted by a department of the state (e.g., IDOT). Generally,
materials which are on record may be found in the office of the Recorder of
Deeds, but certain other matters such as state regulations or municipal
ordinances which cannot be found in the Recorder of Deeds office shall
nonetheless be deemed on record.
   GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed as a
percentage. Synonym for SLOPE.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Site grading of any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk,
drainage ditch, sewer, catchbasin, newly-planted tree, off-street parking area
or other facility necessary for the general use of property owners in a
subdivision.
   IMPROVEMENTS PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the facilities to be installed in, or in conjunction
with, a subdivision.
   INLET. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a stormwater
sewer, designed to retain matter that would not readily pass through the sewer,
and to allow stormwater runoff to enter the sewer.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   LAND ACCESS STREET. A street serving limited (ADT less than 1,000) amounts
of residential traffic, and used for access to abutting property.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended to be separately owned, rented, developed or
otherwise used as a unit.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of a
subdivision recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Madison County, Illinois, in
accordance with state law.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both lot lines shall be deemed front
lot lines.
   MAINTENANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by the
county, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed improvements for a
specified time period following their dedication.
   MAPS AND PLATS DEPARTMENT. The Maps and Plats Division of the Supervisor of
Assessments of Madison County, Illinois.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. See FRONTAGE ROAD.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property not by
reference to a lot or block shown on a recorded subdivision plat, but in terms
of a known point, and the bearings and distances of the lines forming the
boundaries of the property.
   OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to
be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
these regulations.
   PERCOLATION TEST. A subsurface soil test at a depth of a proposed seepage
system or similar component of a sewage disposal system to determine the water
absorption capability of the soil.
   PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by the
county, guaranteeing the satisfactory installation of required improvements
within, or in conjunction with, a subdivision.
   PLAT, FINAL. The final survey and engineering maps, drawings and supporting
material indicating the subdivider’s plan of the subdivision which, if
approved, may be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The preliminary survey and engineering maps, drawings and
supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
   PRIVATE LANE. A privately owned and maintained access easement intended to
be used to access not more than four recorded dwelling units and meets minimum
standards proscribed within §
92.023.
   RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the county or other government entity for public purposes.
   RESERVE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape.
   RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and adjacent
lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property deed as
land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner or subdivider has
dedicated to the county or other unit of government for streets, alleys and
other public improvements.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that is roughly parallel to the front, side or rear lot
line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear
yard.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PRIVATE CENTRAL. A sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards of
these regulations, generally abutting or near the curb line of the street.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Madison County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
   STOP ORDER. An order used by the Administrator to halt work in progress that
is in violation of these regulations.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES,
but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
   STUB STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is planned
for future continuation.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person dividing or proposing to divide land in a manner that
constitutes a subdivision as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of land into two or more lots, except as provided
otherwise in the list of exceptions set forth in the Plat Act, being 765 ILCS
205/0.1 et seq. The term SUBDIVISION includes resubdivisions.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A division of land into two but not more than four lots,
all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any new streets,
other rights-of-way, improvements or other provisions for public areas and
facilities.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of a right-of-way or subdivision,
and to so note on the final plat recorded with the Recorder of Deeds.
   VARIANCE, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the design
and improvement standards set forth in these regulations.
(1993 Code, § 92.07) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2012-05, passed 6-20-2012;
Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.008 MINIMUM SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC ROADS IN DEVELOPMENTS WITH LOTS OF
TWO ACRES OR MORE.
   (A)   Minimum rights-of way shall be 50 feet in width; 60 feet in width
where open ditches are provided.
   (B)   Roadway areas shall be cored to a depth of three inches for the full
length of the road; lime or fly ash modification of soils to a depth of 12
inches is required. Lime or fly ash modification shall extend 12 inches beyond
the edge of the aggregate roadway surface. Lime or fly ash modification shall
be done in accordance with IDOT standards.
   (C)   Roadways shall have a well-compacted sub-base, achieved by rolling
with a minimum six-ton roller to the approval of the County Engineer; a
compaction test shall be provided certifying the adequacy of the subgrade. The
compaction test must be performed by a geotechnical professional and approved
by the County Engineer prior to placing any paving material.
   (D)   Roadway bases shall be comprised of eight inches of machine spread
pugmilled CA-06 or Grade 8 placed in two four-inch lifts, each lift being
compacted with a minimum six-ton roller to the approval of the County Engineer.
A compaction test shall be performed certifying the adequacy of the roadway
base in accordance with IDOT standards.
   (E)   Roadway street surfaces shall consist of an A-3 multiple course
bituminous surface treatment, which is a primer coat; two separate applications
of a bituminous cover coat material, a cover coat aggregate, each aggregate
application shall be rolled with a minimum six-ton roller. All material shall
be of the type, grade, size and rate approved by the County Engineer.
   (F)   Finished roadway surfaces shall be minimum of 28 feet in width with
four-foot shoulders adjacent to the edge of pavement; The maximum/minimum
grades of streets shall be in conformity with §
92.023(A).
   (G)   Curb and gutter. Where curb and gutter is installed, all streets shall
be bounded by unreinforced concrete curb and gutters in conformity with the
specifications illustrated in Figure 5. All other drainage structures shall be
the type and size approved by the County Engineer.
   (H)   All road side ditches shall have a two-foot bottom with no greater
than three to one front and back slopes and be a minimum of 18 inches in depth.
   (I)   The terminus of a dead end road shall have a cul-de-sac turnaround,
having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a minimum pavement radius
of 40 feet.
   (J)   The entire right-of-way shall be cleared of all brush and trees unless
previously discussed and approved by the County Engineer.
   (K)   Naming of private roads shall be approved by the 911 Coordinator, as
well as being approved by the County Engineer.
   (L)   Street signs and signposts shall be of the type and specifications as
required in §
92.026(B)(1) and (B)(2). All traffic control signs shall be of a type approved
by the County Engineer.
   (M)   Responsibility for maintenance. The subdivider shall assume
responsibilities for maintaining all streets including seeding; removal of
earth, crushed stone or other debris from the pavement, curb and gutter and
other drainage facilities, for the time periods indicated in §
92.062, that is, for two years after dedication of the street.
(1993 Code, § 92.09) (Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS
§ 92.020 SUITABILITY FOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The design and improvements standards set forth in this subchapter
shall be deemed the minimum requirements for public health, safety and general
welfare. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to mean that
the subdivider cannot construct additional improvements or improvements of a
higher quality.
   (B)   Any tract of land that is unsuitable for development due to probable
flooding, poor drainage, rough topography, adverse soil conditions or other
conditions which, in the opinion of the Building and Zoning Committee, will
prove harmful to the health, safety or general welfare of the future
inhabitants of that tract or adjacent parcels shall not be subdivided unless
the subdivider formulates plans or methods which the Committee deems adequate
to solve the potential problems engendered by the adverse land conditions.
(1993 Code, § 92.20) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.021 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   Reference monuments shall be set in the field and at the corners of all
platted lots in accordance with 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq., as amended from time to
time.
(1993 Code, § 92.21) (Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.022 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conformity with zoning. All lots in the subdivision shall conform to
the minimum lot area and dimensions requirements of the zoning district in
which the subdivision is located. Any land which is underwater or located
within the public right-of-way shall not be counted in determining compliance
with this requirement.
   (B)   Multiple-frontage lots. The creation of through lots should be avoided
where possible. Every lot having multiple frontages (e.g., corner lots, through
lots) shall be large enough to permit compliance with the zoning district’s
front setback requirement on every side of the lot abutting a street.
   (C)   Length/width ratio. The length of any lot shall not be greater than
three times the width of the lot; provided that the Building and Zoning
Committee or the County Board of Supervisors may vary this requirement in
accordance with §
92.077 but only if warranted by topographical or other considerations.
   (D)   Lot remnants. All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to
avoid the creation of nonconforming lots. (See division (A) above.)
   (E)   Relationship of side lot lines to street lines. All side lot lines
shall be at right angles to straight street right-of-way lines and radial to
the curved street right-of-way lines, except where a deviation from this rule
will result in a better street or lot design.
   (F)   Access. Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts or
has satisfactory access to a street which meets the requirements of §
92.023. Land shall not be subdivided in such a way that any other parcel’s sole
means of access to a public road is eliminated.
   (G)   Satisfactory building sites. The design and arrangement of lots shall
be such that each lot will provide a satisfactory building site, properly
related to topography.
   (H)   Natural or historical features. Whenever any tract is to be
subdivided, the most restrictive measures consistent with the anticipated
development of the tract should be taken to protect such natural features as
tree growth, wetlands, steep slopes and watercourses, as well as any
historically, architecturally or archaeologically significant structures or
sites.
   (I)   Lot numbering. Lots shall be numbered consecutively throughout all
phases or additions of the subdivision, and the same basic subdivision name
shall be given to all parts thereof.
(1993 Code, § 92.22) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.023 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The arrangement, character, extent, width and locations of all streets
within any subdivision shall be properly related to existing and planned
streets as indicated in the county transportation plan; to reasonable
circulation of traffic; to topographic conditions; to runoff of stormwater; to
public convenience and safety; and to the proposed uses of the land to be
served by the streets.
   (A)   Minimum specifications. The following minimum specifications apply
specifically to residential subdivisions. At the recommendation of the County
Engineer, higher standards comporting with accepted engineering practices may
be imposed for streets in nonresidential subdivisions.
Type of Street Minimum Right-of-Way Width (Feet) Minimum Pavement Width1 (Feet)
Type of Street  Minimum Right-of-Way Width  Minimum Pavement Width1 (Feet)
                (Feet)
Alley           20                          182
Collector       60                          364
Land access     50                          324
Marginal access 40                          223
Private lane    25 (access easement)        20
1   As measured from back to back of curbs
2   No curbs required
3   Curb requirements may be waived by subdivision variance
4   Reduced pavement widths may be allowed by a variance granted by the
Building and Zoning Committee or the County Board in accordance with §
92.077 if the subdivider agrees to provide excess off-street parking, or
if the street is very short (less than 500 feet) and highly unlikely to be
extended.
 
   (B)   Topographical considerations. Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the natural topography, but shall not exceed the maximum
grade nor be less than the minimum grade indicated in division (A) above. All
streets shall be arranged so that as many as possible of the potential building
sites are at or above street grade.
   (C)   Through traffic discouraged. Marginal access and land access streets
shall be laid out so as to discourage use through traffic. To effect a more
desirable street layout, the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs or U-
shaped streets is encouraged; the rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern
should be avoided.
   (D)   Limited access to area service highways. Where a subdivision abuts or
contains an existing or proposed area service highway, the subdivider may be
required to limit access to the highway by one of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so that they back onto the highway, and
front onto a parallel marginal access or land access street (double frontage
lots), coupled with the installation of screening along the rear lot lines of
such lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loop streets
entered from and generally at right angles to the highway, with the rear lot
lines of the lots at the termini of the streets backing onto the highway; or
      (3)   A frontage road separated from the highway by a planting strip, but
having access thereto at suitable points.
   (E)   Dead-end streets.
      (1)   Temporary stub streets. Streets shall be arranged to provide the
continuation of collector streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation comports with the county transportation plan, or is necessary for
adequate traffic circulation, effective fire and police protection and
efficient provision of utilities. If a street must dead-end temporarily because
the adjacent property is undeveloped, the right-of-way shall be extended to the
property line, and no strip that would prevent connections with future streets
shall be reserved. A temporary turnabout shall be provided at the terminus of
any temporary dead-end street.
      (2)   Permanent dead-end streets. The terminus of a permanent dead-end
street shall not be closer than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A
cul-de-sac turnaround, having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a
minimum pavement radius of 40 feet, shall be provided at the end of every
permanent dead-end street.
   (F)   Alleys. Alleys may be built in single-family districts at the
subdivider’s option. Alleys may be required in multiple-family districts and in
commercial or industrial districts unless other adequate provisions for service
access are made. Alleys should not intersect with one another nor change
sharply in alignment. Adequate vehicular turnaround space shall be provided at
the terminus of any dead-end alley.
   (G)   Intersections.
      (1)   Only two streets. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any
one point.
      (2)   Right angles. Streets shall be laid out to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. In no case shall two streets intersect at an angle
less than 75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching an
intersection, and shall be approximately at right angles with the intersection
for at least 100 feet therefrom, unless the subdivider’s engineer recommends,
and the County Engineer concurs, that a lesser distance would be in accordance
with safe and accepted traffic engineering practices.
      (3)   Proper alignment. Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersection on the opposite side of the street. Street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 125 feet are prohibited, unless the intersected street has
divided lanes without median breaks at either intersection.
      (4)   Rounded corners. Returns at intersections shall be made concentric,
and shall be rounded by a radius of not less than 20 feet at the right-of-way
line.
      (5)   Flat grade. An area having not greater than 3% slope for a distance
of 100 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street shall
be provided at the approach to any intersection.
      (6)   Maximum cross slope. The cross slope on all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
      (7)   Adequate sight lines. Whenever any proposed intersection involves
earth banks or existing vegetation on the triangular area shown in Figure 1,
the ground or vegetation, including trees, shall be cut in connection with the
grading of the public right-of-way to the extent necessary to provide an
adequate sight distance.
   (H)   Horizontal curves. Where a street changes direction (for example,
where a centerline deflection angle occurs), a circular curve having the
minimum centerline radius indicated below shall be introduced. (See Figure 2.)
      (1)   Land access street: 75 feet.
      (2)   Collector street: 250 feet.
   (I)   Reverse curves. A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced
between reverse curves on land access and collector streets. (See Figure 3.)
   (J)   Dedication or reservation of right-of-way.
      (1)   When right-of-way must be dedicated. (This division (J)(1) does not
apply to private streets.)
         (a)   The subdivider shall dedicate at least the minimum right-of-way
indicated in division (A) above whenever he or she proposes to build any of the
listed streets.
         (b)   Whenever the subdivider proposes to build any of the listed
streets, he or she shall dedicate a right-of-way in excess of the stated
minimum where, in the County Engineer’s professional opinion:
            1.   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
adequate sight lines; or
            2.   Due to the location of streams, railroad tracks and other
topographic features, additional width is needed to construct bridges,
underpasses or safe approaches thereto.
      (2)   When right-of-way must be reserved. The subdivider shall reserve a
right-of-way in the instances stated below. If the governmental entity
requiring the reservation has not purchased the right-of-way or acquired it
through condemnation proceedings within one year from the date the final plat
is recorded, the reservation shall cease to legally bind the subdivider.
         (a)   Whenever the state, the county or any township or municipality
within the county has gone on record as desiring to relocate or construct any
street or highway through or adjacent to any proposed subdivision, the
subdivider shall reserve sufficient right-of-way in the locations prescribed by
the governmental entity.
         (b)   Whenever a subdivision abuts an existing street that does not
meet the standards set forth in division (A) above, the subdivider shall
reserve sufficient right-of-way along the side of the street abutting the
subdivision so that, when additional right-of-way is acquired on the other
side, it will be possible to comply with the standards.
      (3)   Right-of-way not part of minimum setback. As noted in §
92.022, any land that is dedicated or reserved for public rights-of-way shall
not be counted in determining compliance with the lot size and setback
requirements set forth in the zoning code.
   (K)   Private lanes. In cases where lots do not directly abut or have direct
access to a public street a private lane may be utilized provided the lane
serves no more than four dwelling units but more than a single unit. If an
additional lot is platted or desires to access the private lane, all properties
must be resubdivided and meet all platting requirements herein, including, but
not limited to, the minimum street specifications and improvement standards and
drainage requirements.
      (1)   The private lane may be constructed in a manner consistent with
typical driveway construction by using gravel or clean rock in lieu of concrete
or asphalt provided the lane remains maintained and passable.
      (2)   A maintenance agreement shall be recorded establishing the
arrangement for which the private lane will be maintained.
      (3)   The final plat shall include an access easement (as per §
92.030).
      (4)   The final plat shall show the location and the width of the private
street.
      (5)   The final plat shall include a certificate stating essentially as
follows:
      “I,                           , owner of tract and the private road or
street shown hereon, declare that the private road or street is not dedicated
to the public, but shall remain private, to be maintained by and for the
adjoining lot owners until such time that said street(s) is accepted by the
appropriate township or Madison County, Illinois.”
   (L)   Private streets. A commercial or residential subdivision street may
remain private without being dedicated to the public under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Minimum street specifications and improvements standards have been
met;
      (2)   Adequate easement and maintenance agreements are in place;
      (3)   The final plat shall include a certificate stating essentially as
follows:
      “I,                           , owner of tract and the private road or
street shown hereon, declare that the private road or street is not dedicated
to the public, but shall remain private, to be maintained by and for the
adjoining lot owners until such time that said street(s) is accepted by the
appropriate township or Madison County, Illinois.”
(1993 Code, § 92.23) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2012-05, passed 6-20-2012; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.024 STREET IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS.
   All streets and alleys shall be improved in accordance with the standards of
the Illinois Department of Transportation and the requirements of this section.
(See Figure 4.)
   (A)   Pavement.
      (1)   All streets and alleys shall be paved across the entire width
stated in §
92.023(A) (as measured from back-to-back or curbs). Streets shall be designed
in accordance with IDOT pavement design standards with a minimum:
         (a)   Lime or fly ash modification of soils to a depth of 12 inches.
Lime or fly ash modification shall extend beyond 12 inches of the curb and
gutter. Lime or fly ash modification shall be done in accordance with IDOT
standards;
         (b)   Eight inches of unreinforced class “SI” concrete on a compacted
sub-base with unreinforced contraction joints on 15-foot centers;
         (c)   Nine inches of IDOT approved hot mix asphalt at the following
depths: one and one-half inch of surface and one and one-half inch binder and
six inches of bituminous aggregate mixture (BAM);
         (d)   Equivalents to the above as determined by the County Engineer;
         (e)   Roadways shall have a well-compacted sub-base, achieved by
rolling with a minimum six-ton roller to the approval of the County Engineer;
compaction tests shall be provided certifying the adequacy of the subgrade. The
compaction test must be performed by a geotechnical professional and approved
by the County Engineer prior to placing any paving material;
         (f)   For rigid pavements, concrete strength tests shall be performed
and certified by an engineer that the pavement meets IDOT standards;
         (g)   For flexible pavements, compaction tests shall be performed and
certified by an engineer that the pavement meets IDOT standards; or
         (h)   For rigid pavement, a minimum of 15 feet transverse joints
without dowel basket assemblies are required for expansion.
      (2)   “Oil and chip” surfacing is not acceptable, except as provided in §
92.008.
   (B)   Curb and gutter. All streets shall be bounded by integral concrete
curb and gutters in conformity with the specifications illustrated in Figure 5;
provided that the Building and Zoning Committee or the County Board may vary
this requirement in accordance with §
92.077 if the subdivider proposes a design that is deemed adequate by the
County Engineer. All drainage structures shall be designed in accordance with
IDOT standards. The Engineer shall certify the structures are adequate to
handle stormwater drainage in accordance with the standards.
   (C)   Responsibility for maintenance. The subdivider shall assume
responsibilities for maintaining all streets, including seeding; removal of
earth, crushed stone or other debris from the pavement, curb and gutter and
other drainage facilities, for the time periods indicated in §
92.062, that is, for two years after dedication of the street.
(1993 Code, § 92.24) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Res.
passed 4-18-1979; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. passed 9-18-2002; Ord.
2006-06, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Subdivider’s maintenance responsibilities, see §
92.062
   Variances, see §
92.077
§ 92.025 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sidewalks may be required in subdivisions located within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits of certain municipalities, pursuant to their
extraterritorial subdivision control jurisdiction. Elsewhere in the county,
sidewalks are not required, but may be installed at the subdivider’s option.
   (B)   If sidewalks are provided, however, they shall be built in conformity
with the following standards.
      (1)   Relationship to curb. The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall
either abut the curb or be located at least four feet from the curb to allow
sufficient space for tree planting. If the sidewalk abuts the curb, tree wells
shall be provided.
      (2)   Width. Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide.
Nonresidential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   Thickness of concrete. All sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete at least four inches thick.
      (4)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than
10%.
(1993 Code, § 92.25) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978)
§ 92.026 STREET NAMES AND STREET MARKERS.
   (A)   Street names.
      (1)   Every proposed street which is obviously in alignment with an
existing named street shall be given the same name as the existing street.
      (2)   The name assigned to any proposed street which is not in alignment
with an existing named street shall not duplicate nor be phonetically similar
to the name of any existing street, irrespective of any difference in
designation such as “avenue,” “boulevard,” “drive,” “place” or other
descriptive term.
      (3)   The Building and Zoning Committee shall hereafter require all
proposed subdivision plats to be reviewed by the County 911 Department, and the
911 Coordinator shall certify in writing his or her approval of the street
names and addresses to the Building and Zoning Committee, prior to the
recordation of the plat, and designation of street names and street addresses
shall not be thereafter altered or changed without the approval of the County
Board.
   (B)   Street markers. At all the street intersections within or abutting any
subdivision, the subdivider shall install street markers in conformity with the
following standards.
      (1)   Street name signs shall be made of aluminum blanks measuring six
inches by variable lengths with green engineer grade reflective background and
four inch high silver intensity letters; or other signs approved by the County
Engineer. The County Highway Department will supply these signs and posts to
the subdivider for the cost of material and labor.
      (2)   Street name signs shall be mounted on four-inch by four-inch
creosoted wood posts or one and three-fourths-inch square telespar (or
equivalent) steel posts. In either case, the support shall be set to a depth of
three feet below ground surface and shall extend approximately seven feet above
the ground surface to the bottom of the lowest placed sign.
(1993 Code, § 92.26) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Res.
passed 4-4-1989; Ord. 92-8, passed - - ; Ord. passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14,
passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 92.027 ELECTRICAL POWER, TELEPHONE AND CABLE ANTENNA TELEVISION (CATV) LINES.
   (A)   Service lines and connections underground. Electrical power, telephone
and CATV (if any) service lines shall be installed underground throughout every
residential or commercial subdivision, and underground service connections
shall be provided at the property line of every platted lot.
   (B)   Within easements or public rights-of-way. The conduits or cables shall
be located within easements or public rights-of-way in such a manner that they
do not interfere with other underground services. If the conduits or cables are
to be installed in public rights-of-way, the precise location thereof must be
approved by the County Engineer.
(1993 Code, § 92.27) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty,
see §
92.999
§ 92.028 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Extension of public system. Whenever the public water distribution
system is reasonably accessible, that is, when the distance from any boundary
of the tract to be subdivided to the nearest public water main with available
capacity does not exceed 600 feet, the subdivider shall extend the system
throughout the subdivision, and provide every platted lot with a connection
thereto at the lot line.
   (B)   Private central systems; individual wells. Whenever the public water
distribution system is not reasonably accessible (that is, when the distance
from any boundary of the tract to be subdivided to the nearest public water
main with available capacity does not exceed 600 feet), then in accordance with
accepted engineering practices and the regulations of the Illinois Department
of Public Health, the subdivider shall provide individual wells or install a
private central water system.
   (C)   Distribution lines. In any subdivision, all water distribution lines
shall be at least six inches in diameter.
(1993 Code, § 92.28) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty,
see §
92.999
§ 92.029 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   When and type required. When a public or private central water
distribution system is provided in a subdivision, the subdivider shall install
fire hydrants of the type approved by the Fire Chief of the district having
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Location. Hydrants shall be located in accordance with state
requirements and the regulations of the operating authority.
(1993 Code, § 92.29) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty,
see §
92.999
§ 92.030 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Sewer and utilities easements. Unless utilities are to be installed in
public rights-of-way, an easement not less than 15 feet wide shall be provided
where necessary for storm and sanitary sewers; gas, water and other mains; and
for underground electric and telephone lines. Normally, in the case of abutting
lots, seven and one-half feet of the easement shall be on one lot, and the
other seven and one-half feet shall be on the abutting lot. In any event, the
total easement width shall be 15 feet.
   (B)   Drainage easements. Adequate easements for stormwater drainage shall
be established along any natural drainage channel, or in such other locations
as may be necessary to provide the satisfactory disposal of stormwater runoff
from streets, alleys and all other portions of the subdivision. The precise
locations and minimum widths of drainage easements must be approved by the
County Engineer.
   (C)   Obstructions prohibited. No person shall erect any structure, plant
any tree or shrub, or place any obstruction in any easement or within any
public right-of-way, except at the property owner’s risk with respect to all
costs for demolition, removal, reconstruction or replacement thereof.
   (D)   Access easements. Easements for access shall be established for
private lanes and streets, cross access and shared driveways. The easement
shall equally provide access to all parties and shall be irrevocable and run
with the land.
(1993 Code, § 92.30) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2012-05, passed 6-20-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 SANITARY SEWERS.
   All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the regulations of
the State Department of Public Health and the State Environmental Protection
Agency, and with all pertinent requirements of the divisions below. Sewage
collection lines shall not be smaller than eight inches in diameter.
   (A)   When public system available. Whenever the public sanitary sewer
system is reasonably accessible, that is, whenever the distance from any
boundary of the subdivision to the nearest public sewer with available capacity
does not exceed 600 feet, the subdivider shall extend the public system
throughout the subdivision, and provide each platted lot with a connection
thereto at the lot line.
   (B)   When public system planned. In areas where the public sanitary sewer
system is not reasonably accessible, but where plans for the installation of
the system have been approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
the developer shall provide sanitary sewers in accordance with such plans and
temporarily cap them.
   (C)   Private central sewage systems. Except as provided in division (D)
below, whenever the public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible,
the subdivider shall install a private central sewer collection and treatment
system in conformity with all applicable provisions of the State Environmental
Protection Agency. All private central sewer systems shall comply with the
maintenance provisions of §
92.062.
   (D)   Individual disposal systems. Individual sewage disposal systems shall
be permitted only in the instances specified in Chapter 93, zoning code and
Chapter 110, the county on-site sewage disposal ordinance. If permitted, all
individual sewage disposal systems shall be designed and installed in
conformity with all applicable provisions of the aforementioned regulations.
All preliminary subdivision plats must include a private sewage plat approved
by the Building and Zoning Committee. The private sewage plat must demonstrate
compliance with the zoning code and on-site private sewage disposal. Soil
borings by a qualified geotechnical professional must be submitted to support
the conclusions of the proposed improvements.
(1993 Code, § 92.31) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2001-06, passed 6-14-2001; Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2024-01, passed
3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.032 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Generally. Every residential subdivision shall be provided with
facilities which can satisfactorily accommodate the runoff incident to the ten-
year design storm. The drainage facilities in any commercial or industrial
subdivision shall be designed to handle the runoff from the 25-year design
storm.
   (B)   General design considerations.
      (1)   Underground or surface system. The drainage system may provide for
the design storm indicated above by either an underground or surface drainage
system, or a combination of both. If an underground system is utilized, it
shall at least accommodate the five-year design storm, and adequate surface
drainage (swales, ditches and the like) facilities shall be provided to handle
the additional flow.
      (2)   Consistency with plans or regulations. Drainage facilities shall be
designed in conformity with any adopted local, regional or levee, or sanitary
district plans or regulations, including the county stormwater drainage and
detention and sediment control ordinance.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. Drainage facilities large
enough to accommodate potential runoff from the entire drainage area upstream
from the proposed subdivision shall be provided in accordance with the County
Engineer’s specifications. Potential runoff shall be determined on the basis of
the maximum development of the upstream area that is permitted under the
current zoning district regulations.
      (4)   Retention discharge. The volume and rate of stormwater runoff
leaving the subdivision shall not substantially exceed what would have occurred
under natural, undeveloped conditions if it appears that existing or potential
downstream developments would be damaged by a greater or faster flow. Thus, if
necessary in the opinion of the Building and Zoning Committee and the County
Engineer, the subdivider shall install stormwater retention facilities in his
or her subdivision.
   (C)   Technical requirements. Subdivision drainage facilities shall be
designed or installed in accordance with the following requirements in such a
way that natural drainage is impeded as little as possible during construction.
      (1)   Pipe.
         (a)   All pipes shall be sized according to the Rational Method, USGS
Small Watershed Method, USDA Soil Conservation Services Method or other
recognized engineering method.
         (b)   Crossroad pipe shall meet the requirements of the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and the Administrative Policy
Manual of the Bureau of Local Roads and Streets, Illinois Department of
Transportation.
      (2)   Inlets. Inlets shall be installed wherever necessary so that
surface water is not carried across any street or intersection, nor for a
distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. Inlets shall be built to the
specifications indicated in Figure 6.
      (3)   Storm sewers.
         (a)   Any storm sewer system shall be separated from and independent
of the sanitary sewer system.
         (b)   Storm sewers shall be built in accordance with current
engineering practices. They shall be at least 12 inches in diameter, and an
inlet or manhole shall be installed at each change of alignment or grade.
      (4)   Ditches.
         (a)   Ditches shall be designed and built to the specifications
established by the county, unless the County Engineer approves an alternative
design.
         (b)   Adequate measures (seeding, sodding, riprap, paving or other
techniques) shall be taken to prevent erosion of ditch banks.
         (c)   The natural drainage system shall be used as far as feasible for
the storage and flow of runoff, but no existing ditch, stream, drain, slough,
retention basin or drainage channel shall be deepened, widened, filled or
rerouted without the County Engineer’s written permission.
      (5)   High water table. Whenever special drainage problems resulting from
a high water table are encountered, the subdivider shall take reasonable
remedial or compensatory measures in accordance with current engineering
practices, as determined by the County Engineer. Such measures might include
anchoring of water or sewer lines, subsurface drain tiles, added subbase or
pavement thickness, or other measures.
(1993 Code, § 92.32) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.033 GRADING, EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   All grading in streets and alleys shall be done in accordance with
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction in the State of
Illinois.
   (B)   Other site grading shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   Subgrade. Before grading is started, the entire area shall be
cleared of all tree stumps, roots, brush and other objectionable materials, and
of all trees not intended for preservation. Subsequently, the subgrade shall be
properly shaped, rolled and uniformly compacted.
      (2)   Cuts. In cuts, all tree stumps, boulders and other objectionable
materials shall be removed to a depth of at least two feet below the graded
surface.
      (3)   Tree preservation. Existing vegetation, especially trees having a
diameter of four inches or more when measured 12 inches above the ground,
should be retained and protected to the maximum extent consistent with
development of the site.
      (4)   Erosion control. The design of every subdivision shall be
consistent with the natural limitations presented by topography and soil so as
to create the least potential for soil erosion. Soil shall be exposed for the
shortest feasible period of time. Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate,
mulching or other covering shall be used to protect exposed areas.
      (5)   Sedimentation control. Appropriate devices, such as sediment
basins, debris basins, desilting basins or silt traps, shall be installed and
maintained to remove sediment from surface waters leaving the subdivision.
      (6)   Requirements. All grading and sediment and erosion control shall
conform with the requirements of the county stormwater drainage and detention
and sediment control ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 92.33) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.034 RESERVATION FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.
   When a school board, park board, municipality or the county has gone on
record as desiring to purchase a parcel in a proposed subdivision for a school,
park or other public purpose, the owner or subdivider shall reserve the parcel
for acquisition by the public entity for a period of 12 months beginning on the
date the final plat is recorded. If, within this 12-month period, an
acquisition price cannot be agreed upon or condemnation proceedings have not
been instituted, the owner or subdivider may sell, subdivide or otherwise
dispose of the parcel.
(1993 Code, § 92.34) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978) Penalty,
see § 92.99
PLATS AND PLANS
§ 92.045 PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Before submitting a preliminary plat, the subdivider is encouraged to confer
with the Zoning Administrator, the Building and Zoning Committee, other county
officials and officials of other units of government which would be affected by
the proposed subdivision to initiate preplanning activities, and to obtain
information and guidance before entering into binding commitments or incurring
substantial expense in the preparation of detailed plans, surveys and other
data. A sketch plan is extremely useful at this stage.
(1993 Code, § 92.45) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.046 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Generally. Every person who proposes to subdivide any land within the
county’s subdivision jurisdiction shall comply with the procedural and
substantive provisions of the divisions below, provided, that these
requirements shall not apply to:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions as defined in §
92.007; however, the county shall not allow this exemption to be used as a
means of repeatedly circumventing preliminary plat requirements. In other
words, if it becomes apparent that a subdivider is attempting to “piecemeal” a
tract, he or she shall be required to submit a preliminary plat notwithstanding
the fact that his or her proposal technically involves a “minor subdivision;”
and
      (2)   Land that is specifically exempted from such requirements by 765
ILCS 205/1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Information required. Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
land surveyor registered in the state. The preliminary plat should be drawn to
a scale of not more than 100 feet to one inch. If the plat is shown on two or
more sheets, an index shall be provided on each street. The preliminary plat,
together with the supporting data, shall provide the following information:
      (1)   On the plat itself:
         (a)   A small key map showing the proposed subdivision in relation to
section or United States survey lines, and to platted subdivisions and
dedicated streets within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision, and also showing
the location of any municipal corporate limits situated within one and one-half
miles of the subdivision;
         (b)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         (c)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
         (d)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and registered land
surveyor who prepared the plats;
         (e)   A statement to the effect that “this plat is not for record;”
         (f)   Locations and lengths of the boundaries of the tract to be
subdivided;
         (g)   Zoning district classification of the proposed subdivision and
adjoining land (if more than one zoning district is involved, the dividing
lines must be shown);
         (h)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-
foot contour data for land having slopes of 0% to 4%, five-foot contour data
for land having slopes between 4% to 12%; and ten-foot contour data for land
having slopes of 12% or more;
         (i)   Locations, elevations and direction of flow of major
watercourses, natural drainageways and ponding areas;
         (j)   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed lots
within the subdivision, with an identifying number for each lot;
         (k)   Locations and right-of-way widths of all existing and proposed
streets and alleys;
         (l)   Locations, widths and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
         (m)   Locations, sizes, grades and invert elevations of all existing
sewers, water mains, drains and culverts, on the tract to be subdivided, and on
adjoining tracts if the facilities are to be used or extended;
         (n)   Identification and location of all proposed sanitary sewers and
storm sewers within the subdivision and on adjoining tracts, if the facilities
are to be used or extended;
         (o)   In the case of a subdivision wherein individual sewage disposal
systems are proposed, locations of all percolation tests;
         (p)   Locations and types of all other existing and proposed
utilities;
         (q)   Locations and dimensions of all parcels, if any, to be reserved
for schools, parks, playgrounds or other public or semipublic purposes;
         (r)   Locations of all mined-out areas;
         (s)   Certificate of approval by the East Side Levee and Sanitary
District or other similar agency, if applicable; and
         (t)   Locations and dimensions of all existing streets and driveways
located across the street from the proposed development.
      (2)   The Building and Zoning Committee or the County Board of
Supervisors may grant a variance to divisions (B)(1)(m) and (B)(1)(n) of this
section in accordance with §
92.077.
      (3)   Separate submission items:
         (a)   Area in square feet of every proposed lot;
         (b)   Groundwater information:
            1.   In the American Bottoms, water table depths from the Illinois
State Water Survey (in lieu of boring);
            2.   In other areas of the county, groundwater levels ascertained
by borings and from recorded groundwater levels; and
            3.   The Building and Zoning Committee or the County Board may
grant a variance to divisions (B)(3)(b)1. and (B)(3)(b)2. of this section in
accordance with §
92.077.
         (c)   In the case of a resubdivision, a copy of the existing plat; and
         (d)   Where individual sewage disposal systems are proposed, the
results of soil boring testing performed by a qualified geotechnical
professional along with a private sewage plat indicating the type and location
of any private sewage improvement proposed. The private sewage plat shall be
prepared in accordance with the Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code, 77 IAC
§§ 901.10 et seq., as amended by the county private sewage disposal ordinance.
         (e)   A digital copy of the preliminary subdivision plat, with lot
lines in digital .dxf format, and state planes coordinates shown, at the
minimum, on corners of the subdivision plat. The state planes coordinates
provided shall be in the following format: NAD 1983 HARN Stateplane Illinois
West Coordinate (Feet) System.
   (C)   Filing and transmittal. The subdivider shall file six copies of the
preliminary plat and supporting information with the Administrator. The
Administrator shall retain two copies in the Maps and Plats Department, and
forward one copy to each of the following:
      (1)   Building and Zoning Committee;
      (2)   Building and Zoning Department;
      (3)   County Engineer;
      (4)   Highway Commissioner of the township in which the proposed
subdivision is located; and
      (5)   Filing fees are required.
   (D)   Zoning-related matters. The subdivider shall check with the Planning
and Development Administrator to determine whether the proposed subdivision is
located within the zoning district stated in the submitted information, and
whether the subdivision complies with all applicable provisions of the
Chapter 93, zoning code. If the proposed subdivision cannot be built without a
rezoning, special use permit or variance, the subdivider should either first
secure the necessary zoning action through the Building and Zoning Department,
or apply for the same at the time he or she submits the preliminary plat. In
the latter case, preliminary plat approval shall be conditional until the
rezoning, special use permit or zoning variance has been granted.
   (E)   Review by other agencies. The subdivider shall submit one copy of the
preliminary plat to the County Soil and Water Conservation District and one
copy to the East Side Levee and Sanitary District (or other levee, sanitary or
drainage district if the proposed subdivision is located within such district
and that district requests a copy) at the same time he or she submits copies of
the plat to the Administrator. The districts may comment on the preliminary
plat within 30 days after receiving it. Any comments either district wishes the
county to consider must be in writing, and must be filed with the
Administrator. If written comments are not filed within 30 days, the Building
and Zoning Committee shall assume that the districts have no objections to the
proposed preliminary plat.
   (F)   Review and action by Building and Zoning Committee. The Building and
Zoning Committee shall review the preliminary plat, and, after consultation
with technically qualified persons as necessary, shall either approve (with or
without modification conditions) or disapprove the plat within 60 days from the
date it was submitted to the Administrator or the last item of supporting
information was filed, whichever occurred later, unless the subdivider and the
Building and Zoning Committee mutually agree to extend this time limit. The
Building and Zoning Committee shall state its reasons for its action, including
the nature of any conditions or modifications, in writing, and attach the
written statement to the preliminary plat. One copy of the plat and attached
statement shall be returned to the Administrator and filed, and one copy shall
be returned promptly to the subdivider by first class mail. Approval by the
Building and Zoning Committee does not qualify a preliminary plat for
recording.
   (G)   Effect of preliminary plat approval. Preliminary plat approval shall
confer upon the subdivider the following rights and privileges:
      (1)   That the preliminary plat approval will remain effective for a
period of two years. During this period, the subdivider may submit all or part
of the preliminary plat for final approval. In the event that the subdivision
is being developed in stages, the applicant may, by written permission of the
Building and Zoning Committee, postpone submission of the final plat of the
last part of the proposed submission for not more than ten years from the date
of preliminary plat approval;
      (2)   That the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
plat approval was granted will not be changed prior to or during the final plat
review process; and
      (3)   That the subdivider may proceed with any detailed improvement plans
for all required facilities. Actual construction of improvements may commence
prior to final plat approval; however, only if the detailed improvement plans
have been approved by the County Engineer.
   (H)   Special procedures regarding subdivisions near municipalities.
      (1)   Every proposed subdivision located within one and one-half miles of
the corporate limits of any municipality which exercises extraterritorial
subdivision jurisdiction shall, at a minimum, comply with the design and
improvement standards imposed herein and with the county transportation plan.
Moreover, these subdivisions shall meet any more restrictive requirements that
the municipality may impose.
      (2)   Whenever a proposed subdivision is located within a municipality’s
extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction, the subdivider shall submit the
preliminary plat to the Building and Zoning Department. The Zoning
Administrator will then contact the respective municipality to provide the
option to review the plat If the preliminary plat indicates that the
subdivision will be designed or improved to standards less restrictive than
those set forth in this chapter, or will not conform with the county
transportation plan, the Building and Zoning Committee shall not approve the
plat. In such instances, the Administrator shall promptly inform the
municipality in writing of the specific instances of noncompliance. He or she
shall also notify the County Engineer and the Township Highway Commissioner.
The officials may refuse to accept any nonconforming road or street for
incorporation into the county or township road system.
      (3)   Any final plat of a proposed subdivision located within a
municipality’s extraterritorial subdivision jurisdiction must have a
certificate executed thereon in conformance with §
92.048(C).
(1993 Code, § 92.46) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Certificates required, see §
92.048(C)
   Fee, see §
92.079
§ 92.047 IMPROVEMENTS PLANS.
   After the Building and Zoning Committee has approved the preliminary plat,
but prior to the submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall file with
the Zoning Administrator four copies of the plans, specifications and
supporting data for all improvements to be installed in or in conjunction with
the proposed subdivision, and three copies of the approved preliminary plat and
related information. The Administrator shall retain one copy, and promptly
forward one copy of each of the listed documents (for example, the plans, the
approved preliminary plat and all supporting information related to either) to
the County Engineer and one copy to the appropriate Township Highway
Commissioner. Filing fees are required.
   (A)   Information required. All improvements plans (black or blue line
prints) and supporting data shall be prepared, signed and sealed by the
subdivider’s registered professional engineer. The plans and the supporting
data shall provide all of the information listed below. (All dimensions shall
be to the nearest one-one-hundredths foot, and all angles shall be to the
nearest minute.)
      (1)   Title page, with a key map showing the relationship of the
subdivision to the surrounding area, including portions of the subdivision
previously developed plus adjacent streets;
      (2)   Title block showing names and addresses of the subdivider and the
engineering firm, as well as the engineer’s seal;
      (3)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
      (4)   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing volume,
section, page or other reference;
      (5)   One or more bench marks, in or near the subdivision, to which the
subdivision is referenced (elevation based on mean sea level datum);
      (6)   Existing and proposed survey monuments;
      (7)   Proposed finished grades at the same contour intervals as required
for the preliminary plat;
      (8)   Plans, profiles and cross-sections of streets (at least 100-feet
intervals) showing names, right-of-way and pavement widths, elevations, paving
details, grades, curbs and gutters, catchbasins, sidewalks and any other
improvements to be constructed within or in conjunction with the street right-
of-way;
      (9)   Soil information and a soils map, when required by these
regulations;
      (10)   Groundwater information and locations of any test wells;
      (11)   Plan of any water supply system showing the locations, pipe sizes,
pump stations (size, capacity and type) and hydrant and valve locations;
      (12)   Percolation test data and locations of test holes if no public
sewer system is available or proposed;
      (13)   Plan of sewage disposal system showing pipe locations, sizes,
force mains, invert elevations, slopes, manhole locations, lift stations (size,
capacity and type) and points of discharge:
         (a)   If the area is subject to flooding, any additional floodproofing
measures (for example, anchoring, special pipe, groundwater information and the
like) shall be shown; and
         (b)   If a private sewage treatment system is proposed, all
information required by the State Environmental Protection Agency shall be
submitted with the improvement plans (for example, treatment proposed, size,
type, capacity, locations, outfall points and the like).
      (14)   Plan of drainage system including watershed outlines with drainage
computations, retention basins showing drainage areas, locations of storm
sewers, culverts, drainage channels, swales, slopes, pipe sizes, invert
elevations, underground drains, outlet locations and velocity reduction
techniques;
      (15)   Proposed fill or other structure-elevating techniques, levees,
channel modifications and other methods to overcome any flood hazards;
      (16)   Any proposed structural or nonstructural measures to prevent soil
erosion and control sedimentation;
      (17)   List of all improvements to be dedicated to the county; and
      (18)   Cost estimates of all improvements to be dedicated to the county.
   (B)   Review of improvements plans. Both the County Engineer and the
Township Highway Commissioner shall review the subdivider’s improvements plans.
Subsequently, but not later than 30 days after the improvements plans were
submitted to the Administrator, the County Engineer shall prepare a written
report stating whether he or she approves, conditionally approves or
disapproves the plans and the reasons for his or her decision.
   (C)   Transmittal of Engineer’s report. The County Engineer shall submit
four copies of his or her report to the Administrator. The Administrator shall:
      (1)   Retain one copy in the Maps and Plats Department;
      (2)   Forward one copy to the Building and Zoning Committee;
      (3)   Forward one copy to the county Building and Zoning Department; and
      (4)   Send one copy by first class mail to the subdivider.
   (D)   Effect of Engineer’s decision.
      (1)   APPROVAL means that the subdivider may commence actual construction
of the improvements in accordance with the approval plans.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL means that the subdivider must submit three
copies of properly corrected improvements plans to the Administrator who, in
turn, shall retain one copy and forward one copy to the County Engineer and one
copy to the Township Highway Commissioner. Once corrected plans are submitted,
actual construction may commence.
      (3)   DISAPPROVAL means that the subdivider must rework and resubmit his
or her improvements plans as if they were a completely new  set of plans. Until
he or she does so, the Building and Zoning Committee shall not review his or
her final plat and construction of improvements shall not commence.
      (4)   If the improvements plans do not substantially mesh with the
approved preliminary plat, then at the subdivider’s option a new preliminary
play must be submitted in accordance with §
92.046 or the improvements plans must be revised.
   (E)   Inspections required.
      (1)   While under construction. The subdivider’s professional engineer
shall inspect the subdivision improvements while they are under construction.
If he or she determines that they are being built contrary to approved plans,
he or she shall promptly so inform the Administrator who, in turn, shall cause
a stop order to be issued. The subdivider’s professional engineer shall also
review the results of compaction testing and pavement testing, as required in
§§
92.029 or
92.024, and certify compliance with this chapter. In cases where the results of
the testing do not conform to standards, recommended actions shall be made in
accordance with this chapter and IDOT standards.
      (2)   Upon completion. The subdivider’s professional engineer shall also
inspect the subdivision improvements upon their completion.
      (3)   Notice of deficiencies. The County Engineer or the Township Highway
Commissioner may also inspect the improvements while under construction and
alert the subdivider of any deficiencies.
   (F)   Letter from subdivider’s engineer. If, after the final inspection
required by division (E) above, the subdivider’s professional engineer
determines that the completed improvements conform to approved plans, and the
requirements of this chapter, he or she shall attest to this fact in a letter
to the Administrator. The letter shall bear his or her seal and registration
number. The county shall not accept any completed improvement until the letter
has been received.
   (G)   Submittal of as-built drawings. Upon approval of the improvements, the
developer’s engineer shall submit one copy of as-built drawings to the Township
Highway Commissioner. One copy of the same drawings shall be submitted to the
Planning and Development Administrator in an electronic format compatible with
AutoCAD or ERSl ArcView software.
(1993 Code, § 92.47) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006;
Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Fee, see §
92.079
§ 92.048 FINAL PLATS.
   Every person who proposes to subdivide any land within the county’s
subdivision jurisdiction shall comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions of the divisions below; provided, that the requirements shall not be
applicable to land that is specifically exempted from such requirements by 765
ILCS 205/0.1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   (A)   Technical requirements.
      (1)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in
the state.
      (2)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the project area
portrayed on the approved preliminary plat.
      (3)   The final plat shall be drawn on new linen tracing cloth, or other
material of comparable durability, with black or blue ink, at a scale of not
more than 100 feet to one inch, where practical, provided that the resulting
drawing does not exceed 24 inches square. If two or more sheets are used, an
index shall be provided on each sheet.
      (4)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot; all
angles shall be shown to the nearest minute.
   (B)   Information required. The final plat, together with supporting data,
shall provide all the following information:
      (1)   Small key map showing the proposed subdivision in relation to
section or United States survey lines, and also showing the location of any
municipal corporate limits situated within one and one-half miles of the
subdivision;
      (2)   Name of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
      (4)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and registered land
surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (5)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats within 300 feet to the
proposed subdivision by record name, plat book and page number;
      (6)   Accurate locations and names of all existing streets intersecting
the boundaries of the subdivision;
      (7)   Lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings, and curve
data including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency, central angles;
numbers of each lot; and setback lines and dimensions; and in a separate list,
the area of each lot;
      (8)   Street and other public right-of-way lines with accurate
dimensions, angles or bearings, and curve data including radii, arcs or chords,
points of tangency and central angles;
      (9)   Street name, right-of-way widths and other pertinent data;
      (10)   Locations, dimensions and purposes of any previously recorded or
newly created easements;
      (11)   Accurate metes and bounds description or other adequate legal
description of the tract to be platted (Where discrepancies occur, both
recorded descriptions and surveyed descriptions should be included);
      (12)   Accurate boundary lines of the tract with dimensions and bearings
and angles which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of
closure of not more than one foot in 10,000 feet; additionally, state planes
coordinates shall be shown on the subdivision plat. The state planes
coordinates provided shall be in the following format: NAD 1983 HARN Stateplane
Illinois West Coordinate (Feet) System;
      (13)   Location of monuments;
      (14)   Locations and purposes of any sites, other than private lots,
which are dedicated or reserved;
      (15)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots; and
      (16)   A digital copy of the subdivision plat, with lot lines in digital
.dxf format, must be submitted at the time of application and with any
subsequent revisions to the final plat.
   (C)   Certificates required. The following certificates shall be executed on
the final plat:
      (1)   An owner’s certificate in the following form:
Owner’s Certificate
   We, ( name ) being the Owners of part of (Section or U.S. Survey) described
as (Description) have caused the said tract to be surveyed and subdivided in
the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be hereinafter known as
(                ). The streets shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of
the public forever including the release and waiver of the right of homestead
under the Homestead Exemption Laws of the State of Illinois.
   In Witness Whereof, we have set our hands and seals this           day of
              , 20     .
                                                 (Seal)
                                                 (Seal)
      (2)   A notary certificate in the following form:
Notary Certificate
   State of Illinois   )
               ) ss.
   County of Madison   )
   I,                     , a Notary Public in and for Madison County, hereby
certify that (owners) are personally known to me to be the same persons whose
names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they appeared before
me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and sealed the same as
their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth,
including the release and waiver of the right of homestead.
   Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this           day of               ,
20     .
                                                  
                  Notary Public
      (3)   A surveyor’s certificate in the following form:
Surveyor’s Certificate
   I,                     , a registered Illinois Land Surveyor, hereby certify
that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my direct
supervision at the request of for the purpose of subdividing the tract into
lots as shown. The land is not within any incorporated city, town or village.
The land (is) (is not) within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of
any incorporated city, town or village which has adopted a city plan and is
exercising the special powers authorized by Division 12 of Article II of the
Illinois Municipal Code, as now or hereafter amended, and not included in any
municipality.
   In addition, I hereby certify that no part of this plat to be recorded is
situated within, bordering, or including any public waters of the state in
which the State of Illinois has any property rights or property interests; or
if this plat is situated within, bordering, or including any public waters, I
certify that this plat has been reviewed by the Illinois Department of
Transportation, Division of Water Resources and their report is on file with
County Recorder of Deeds.
   Moreover, I hereby certify that no part of this plat to be recorded is
located within a special flood hazard area as identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. Furthermore, no part of this plat is situated
outside any incorporated city, town or village; or if this plat is situated
within an incorporated city, town or village, I hereby certify that this plat
is entitled to record as provided by 55 ILCS 5/5-1045.
Add the following clause if applicable: Said incorporated city, town, or
village is                      .
                                                          
            Illinois Land Surveyor
                                                          
            Registration Number
                                                          
            Date
      (4)   A County Clerk’s certificate in the following form:
County Clerk’s Certificate
   I,                     , County Clerk of Madison County, Illinois, hereby
certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate
included within this plat.
                                                          
            County Clerk
                                                          
            Date
      (5)   A City Council/Village Board certificate in the following form:
City Council’s/Village Board’s Certificate
(When necessary)
   I,        , Mayor/President of the City/Village of
                                   , hereby certify that this final plat meets
all requirements of the (municipality) Subdivision Ordinance, and was approved
by Council/Board of Trustees on               , 20     .
                                                          
            Mayor/President
      Attest:                                                 
            Municipal Clerk
      (6)   A Building and Zoning Committee certificate in the following form:
         Building and Zoning Committee’s Certificate
         I,                     , Chairperson of the Building and Zoning
Committee of the Madison County Board, hereby certify that the Building and
Zoning Committee has determined that this final plat meets all requirements of
the Madison County Subdivision Regulations; that this plat was approved by the
Building and Zoning Committee on               , 20     ; and that the
subdivider has completed all required improvements or has posted adequate
security prior to said approval.
                                                          
            Chairperson
                                                          
            Date
      (7)   A mined out area certificate in the following form:
Mined-Out Areas Certificate
(when necessary)
   We,                     , hereby certify that we have, at the request of the
Owners, reviewed the Mined Out Coal Area Maps Nos. 22 and 27, as available from
the Illinois State Geological Survey in Urbana, Illinois, and hereby indicate
that the subdivided property shown hereon is within a mined out area.
                                                          
             Registered Land Surveyor
   (D)   Filing and transmittal. The subdivider shall file one reproducible
original and seven copies of the final plat with the Administrator. A filing
fee is required. The Administrator shall retain the original and two copies in
the Maps and Plats Department, and forward one copy to each of the following:
      (1)   Building and Zoning Committee;
      (2)   East Side Levee and Sanitary District (or other levee, sanitary or
drainage district if the proposed subdivision is located within such district
and that district requests a copy);
      (3)   Building and Zoning Department;
      (4)   County Engineer; and
      (5)   Highway Commissioner of the township in which the proposed
subdivision is located.
   (E)   Review and decision by Building and Zoning Committee.
      (1)   The Building and Zoning Committee shall review the final plat, and,
after consultation with technically qualified persons as necessary, shall
either approve or disapprove the plat by resolution within 45 days after it was
filed with the Administrator. The Building and Zoning Committee shall not
approve any final plat unless:
         (a)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat;
         (b)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design
and improvements standards of this chapter;
         (c)   To the Committee’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies
with all pertinent requirements of state law; and
         (d)   Either of the following has been met:
            1.   All required improvements have been completed, inspected and
approved; or
            2.   The subdivider has posted adequate security to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements.
      (2)   If the Building and Zoning Committee disapproves the final plat,
its resolution shall specify the aspects to which the plat fails to meet the
above conditions for approval.
   (F)   Changes in approved final plats. Once a final plat is approved by the
Building and Zoning Committee, it shall not thereafter be modified; provided,
that minor changes may be approved by the Committee upon written application to
the Administrator. Major changes require the filing of a new final plat and
complete re-review.
(1993 Code, § 92.48) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006;
Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Fee, see §
92.079
§ 92.049 MATTERS RELATED TO RECORDING.
   (A)   Generally. The subdivider shall file his or her final plat with the
County Recorder of Deeds not later than 60 days after the Building and Zoning
Committee has approved the plat. Not later than 20 days after the final plat is
recorded, the County Recorder shall provide the Administrator with a written
statement attesting to its recording. Should the subdivider fail to file his or
her plat for recording within the required 60-day period, the resolution of
approval shall be resubmitted to the Building and Zoning Committee for
recertification and the subdivider shall have to resubmit the plat for review
and secure its approval before the plat can be recorded.
   (B)   Unlawful to record unapproved plats. The Recorder of Deeds shall not
record the final plat of any subdivision located within the county’s
subdivision jurisdiction until the Building and Zoning Committee has passed a
resolution approving the plat.
   (C)   Unlawful to convey lots without recorded plat. It shall be unlawful
for any person to sell, offer for sale or lease for a period exceeding five
years any lot in a subdivision unless the final plat thereof is recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds.
   (D)   Unlawful to record illegally conveyed lots. The Recorder of Deeds
shall not record any deed or lease involving a lot in a subdivision unless the
final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the Building and Zoning
Committee and properly recorded.
(1993 Code, § 92.49) (Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
ASSURANCES FOR THE CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 92.060 ASSURANCES GENERALLY.
   The Building and Zoning Committee shall not approve any final plat of
subdivision until, with respect to all completed improvements, all the
requirements of division (A) below have been met, and, with respect to
uncompleted improvements, all the requirements of division (B) have been met.
   (A)   Completed improvements.
      (1)   All completed improvements have been inspected and approved by the
subdivider’s professional engineer;
      (2)   All completed public improvements have been dedicated to the
county, township or other appropriate governmental entity; and
      (3)   Adequate security has been posted with the appropriate governmental
entity to guarantee the satisfactory conditions of all completed public
improvements for the time period stated in §
92.062(A).
   (B)   Uncompleted improvements.
      (1)   In accordance with §
92.061, the subdivider has posted adequate security to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all improvements shown on the approved improvements
plans;
      (2)   The subdivider has provided sufficient information to show how all
improvements which are intended to remain in private ownership will be
perpetually maintained; and
      (3)   In accordance with §
92.063, the subdivider has posted adequate security to guarantee the
satisfactory condition of all public improvements for the time period stated in
§
92.062(A).
(1993 Code, § 92.60) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Subdivider’s maintenance responsibilities, see §
92.062
§ 92.061 COMPLETION SECURITY.
   (A)   Requirements. Security to guarantee the satisfactory completion of
subdivision improvements shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Form. Security may be in the form of a cash deposit, a performance
bond, a letter of credit from a bank approved of and insured by the F.D.I.C.,
or an escrow or impound account in a bank approved of and insured by the
F.D.I.C. All security shall be in a form satisfactory to the Administrator. The
Administrator, the unit of local government or the Building and Zoning
Committee shall have the right to reject any form of security he, she or it
believes would be inadequate, for any reason, to guarantee the completion of
all uncompleted improvements.
      (2)   Amount. The aggregate amount of the security shall be equal to 125%
of the total estimated cost of completing all of the uncompleted improvements.
The amount of a particular “item of security” (for example, a particular cash
deposit, bond, escrow account and the like) shall equal the estimated cost of
completing the improvements covered by the security. The cost estimates shall
be made by the subdivided professional engineer, but must be approved by the
County Engineer.
      (3)   Posted with whom. Security for improvements which are to be
dedicated to the county shall be posted with the County Clerk. Security for
improvements to be dedicated to some other governmental entity shall be posted
with the official designated by that other entity.
      (4)   Term. The initial term of security for any subdivision improvement
within the county’s subdivision jurisdiction shall not exceed two years. If any
improvement which is to be dedicated to the county has not been completed by
the end of the two-year period, the Administrator, with the advice and consent
of the Building and Zoning Committee, may either extend the security for
successive one-year periods, or may proceed as per division (D) below.
   (B)   Sureties. There shall be a surety for every performance bond posted as
security. No person shall be eligible to act as a surety unless he or she has
been approved by the Building and Zoning Committee. Any surety who improperly
fails to perform within 90 days after written notice from the appropriate
official (for example, in the case of the county, the Administrator; in the
case of the township, the Township Highway Commissioner; and the like) shall be
ineligible for two years thereafter to act as surety for any subdivision
improvement within the county’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   Release of security.
      (1)   The county may release up to 80% of the amount of security from
time to time upon written authorization from the Building and Zoning Committee.
The amount which the Building and Zoning Committee authorizes to be released
shall be equal to the value (as determined by the subdivider’s professional
engineer and approved by the County Engineer) of the completed, and accepted,
improvements covered by the security.
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the amount of every security posted with the
county shall be retained until:
         (a)   The subdivider’s professional engineer has certified to the
Administrator in writing that all public improvements plans have been
satisfactorily completed;
         (b)   All public improvements have been dedicated to the county,
township or other appropriate governmental entity; and
         (c)   The requirements of §
92.063 have been fulfilled (two-year maintenance security).
   (D)   Failure to complete improvements. If a secured improvement has not
been completed at the expiration of the term of the security (two years, or
longer if extension has been granted), the Administrator, with the consent of
the Building and Zoning Committee and the assistance of the State’s Attorney,
may:
      (1)   Require the subdivider to submit new security in an amount
sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of constructing the improvements
in question; or
      (2)   Require the surety or financial institution to pay to the county an
amount equal to the cost of completing the required improvements or the amount
of the security not theretofore released, whichever is less.
(1993 Code, § 92.61) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2024-01, passed
3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.062 SUBDIVIDER’S MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Public improvements.  PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS means those improvements
which are so designated on the approved improvements plans. The subdivider
shall adequately maintain all public improvements until they have been
dedicated to the county or township in which they are located, or other
appropriate governmental entity. Following dedication, the county, township or
other governmental entity shall assume normal maintenance duties. However, if
within two years after the dedication of asphalt streets or within one year
after the dedication of concrete streets or other improvements, any maintenance
problem due to improper construction arises, then, in accordance with §
92.063, the subdivider’s maintenance security shall be used to correct the
problem.
   (B)   Private improvements. The subdivider shall maintain all improvements
not designated “public” on the approved improvements plans until such time when
arrangements for their perpetual maintenance are made in accordance with all
applicable regulations of the State Department of Public Health, the State
Commerce Commission and the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   Private central sewer system. Based on the approval of the Building
and Zoning Committee the private central sewer system or specified portions
thereof, ownership operation and maintenance responsibilities of the sewage
collection and treatment system must be dedicated or otherwise transferred to
and accepted by the county or other public entity; or, conveyed or otherwise
transferred to and accepted by a home owner’s association, or similar entity,
the members of which are to be the owners of all of the lots or parcels
comprising the development; or, conveyed to one or more persons or in one or
more undivided interests to one or more persons. Except for those portions of
the sewer system to be dedicated or otherwise transferred to the county or
other public entity, an application for a sewer permit shall accompany a plan
for the long-term management, operation and maintenance of the sewer system and
a description of the sources of funding thereof, and the legal documents to
create a special service area taxing district. The plan must be made part of
the covenants and restrictions and approval of and subsequent amendments to,
must be approved by the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (1)   Transfer to permitting authority or other public entity. If any
portion of the sewer system is to be dedicated or otherwise transferred to a
public entity, the appropriate utility easements for ingress and egress to and
maintenance of such portions shall be reserved on the final plat.
      (2)   Transfer to home owner’s or similar association. If any portion of
the sewer system is to be conveyed or otherwise transferred to a home owner’s
or similar association then:
         (a)   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance
of such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of such association and the
county, or its assigns, on the final plat;
         (b)   The association shall be duly incorporated and a copy of the
certificate of incorporation, duly recorded, and bylaws and any amendment to
either of them, shall be delivered to the Administrator;
         (c)   The covenants of the association shall, at a minimum, contain:
            1.   A provision acknowledging and accepting the association’s
obligation to maintain those portions of the sewer system and special service
areas conveyed or otherwise transferred to it under this section;
            2.   A mechanism for imposing an assessment upon the owners of all
of the lots or parcels comprising the development sufficient, at a minimum, to
provide for the maintenance of those portions of the sewer system conveyed or
otherwise transferred to it under this section; and the payment of all taxes
levied thereon;
            3.   A provision adopting the plan of long-term maintenance set
forth in the application for a sewer permit, with approved amendments;
            4.   A provision identifying the officer of the association
responsible for carrying out the obligations imposed upon the association under
this section;
            5.   A provision requiring the consent of the County Building and
Zoning Committee and a written consent of the IEPA prior to changing any of the
provisions of the bylaws required by this section;
            6.   A provision requiring the consent of the County Building and
Zoning Committee and the IEPA to the dissolution of the association;
            7.   A provision for the transfer of the sewer system including all
appropriate easements to the county, or another governmental jurisdiction, at
the request of the county;
            8.   A provision requiring the connection to a public sewer system
when it is constructed within 2,000 feet of the private waste water treatment
system and the free dedication of the private central sewage system to the
public; and
            9.   Any conveyance or other instrument of transfer shall include a
covenant affirmatively imposing upon the association the obligations set forth
in this section and the association’s affirmative acceptance thereof.
      (3)   Conveyance to one or more persons. If any portion of the sewer
system is to be conveyed to one or more persons, then:
         (a)   Appropriate easements for ingress and egress to and maintenance
of such portions shall be reserved for the benefit of the party responsible for
ownership and operation of the system, and the county or its assigns, on the
final plat;
         (b)   The final plat shall contain a legend imposing the maintenance
obligations of this section upon the grantee and his or her successors in
interest as a covenant running with the land and incorporating by reference the
plan of long-term maintenance set forth in the application for a sewer permit
with approved amendments;
         (c)   The final plat shall contain a legend reserving the right of the
county, or its assigns, to enter upon the land to perform the maintenance
required in this section if the owner does not do so and to place a lien
against the land for the cost thereof; and
         (d)   Any conveyance delivered and any subsequent conveyance shall
include a covenant affirmatively imposing upon the grantee the obligations,
restrictions and provisions set forth in this section and the grantee’s
affirmative acceptance thereof including:
            1.   A provision acknowledging and accepting the obligation to
maintain those portions of the sewer system conveyed or otherwise transferred
to it under this section;
            2.   A provision adopting the plan of long-term maintenance set
forth in the application for a sewer permit, with approved amendments;
            3.   A provision for the transfer of the sewer system, including
all appropriate easements, to the county, or another governmental jurisdiction,
at the request of the county;
            4.   A covenant shall be recorded, requiring the connection to a
public sewer system when it is constructed within 2,000 feet of the private
wastewater treatment system and the free dedication of the private central
sewage system to the public;
            5.   Incorporation of maintenance obligations in sewer permits; and
            6.   The provisions of this section shall be incorporated by
reference in the sewer permit and the applicant’s acceptance of the permit
shall be deemed to be the applicant’s acceptance and assumption of the
obligations imposed under this section. At the option of the Administrator, the
sewer permit may be recorded.
      (4)   Funding of long-term maintenance of sewer facilities. As a
condition of approval of any application for a sewer permit, unless the
maintenance responsibility for the sewer system to be constructed, installed or
preserved in connection therewith has been accepted by a public entity, the
Administrator will require a petition to establish a special service area
pursuant to 35 ILCS 200/27-5 et seq., as a backup funding vehicle in the event
the person designated by the applicant as having primary operation and
maintenance responsibility fails to adequately carry out its duties.
         (a)   If the County Board establishes a special service area, then it
reserves the right at any point in the future to levy taxes for the operation
and maintenance of the private central sewage system. The county, however, is
under no obligation to establish a special service area, or to levy a tax if
one is established, or to accept ownership and maintenance of said private
central sewage system. It shall do so at its sole discretion and in accordance
with the law.
         (b)   If a special service area is established, the Administrator
shall make a good faith estimate of the tax rate required to produce a tax to
be levied upon all taxable property within the area, sufficient for the long-
term maintenance of the facilities, and the county shall incorporate such rate
into its enactment of the ordinances necessary for the establishment of the
area. On or before August 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator shall
submit to the County Board a good faith estimate of the amount of tax required
to be levied upon all taxable property within the area for the next fiscal year
for the continued maintenance of the sewer system.
(1993 Code, § 92.62) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2001-09, passed 8-15-2001; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.063 MAINTENANCE SECURITY.
   To ensure the satisfactory condition of public improvements, the subdivider
shall post adequate security with the county, township or other unit of
government to which the improvements are to be dedicated (for two years after
the improvements have been dedicated).
   (A)   Form. Security may be in the form of a cash deposit, a performance
bond, a letter of credit from a bank approved of and insured by the F.D.I.C. or
an escrow or impound account in a bank approved of and insured by the F.D.I.C.
All security shall be in a form satisfactory to the Planning and Development
Administrator. The Administrator, unit of local government or the Building and
Zoning Committee shall have the right to reject any form of security he, she or
it believes would be inadequate, for any reason, to guarantee the satisfactory
maintenance of all improvements in question for the required time period of §
92.062(A).
   (B)   Amount and purpose of security. The amount of the security shall be
25% of the cost of construction of all improvements. The purpose of the
security is to assure the satisfactory condition of all improvements for two
years after their dedication.
   (C)   Defective improvements. If at any time during the required time
period, the improvements are found by inspection to be defective, they shall be
repaired or replaced at the subdivider’s expense to the satisfaction of the
County Engineer, the Township Highway Commissioner or other appropriate
official. If the subdivider fails to pay such costs within 90 days after demand
is made upon him or her by the county, township or other governmental entity,
the security shall be used to make the required repairs or replacement. If the
cost of the repairs or replacement exceeds the amount of security, the
subdivider shall be liable for the excess cost.
(1993 Code, § 92.63) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2006-06, passed 6-21-2006; Ord. 2024-01, passed
3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.075 ADMINISTRATOR’S DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of the Building and Zoning Department, who is referred to
herein as the Administrator, is authorized and directed to administer these
regulations in the manner prescribed by the Building and Zoning Committee.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To forward preliminary and final plats to the Building and Zoning
Committee;
      (2)   To transmit improvements plans to the County Engineer for review;
      (3)   If so directed by the Building and Zoning Committee, to cause stop
orders to be issued when he or she is notified that improvements are being
constructed in violation of these regulations;
      (4)   When so directed by the Committee, to pursue actions authorized by
§
92.061(D) when a subdivider fails to complete required improvements;
      (5)   To forward requests for minor changes in approved final plats to
the Committee;
      (6)   To forward applications for subdivision variances to the Committee;
      (7)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this
chapter including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of
completed improvements, final plats and variances; and
      (8)   To provide information to subdividers and the general public on
matters related to these regulations.
(1993 Code, § 92.75) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Failure to complete improvements, see §
92.061(D)
§ 92.076 VACATION OF PLATS.
   Any plat or part thereof may be vacated by the owner of the tract of land in
accordance with 765 ILCS 205/0.1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   (A)   Approvals required. No instrument of plat vacation shall be effective
until it has been approved by:
      (1)   The County Building and Zoning Committee;
      (2)   The County Engineer;
      (3)   The Highway Commissioner of the appropriate township; and
      (4)   An authorized official or agent of any utility involved.
   (B)   When lots have been sold. If any lots in the subdivision have been
sold, the instrument of plat vacation shall not be effective unless it is also
signed by all the owners of the lots.
(1993 Code, § 92.76) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.077 SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally. Any subdivider desiring a variance from the requirements of
these regulations shall file a written application therefor with the
Administrator at the same time that he or she files his or her preliminary
plat. The application shall specify the variance requested, fully explain the
grounds therefor, and state the section hereof which, if strictly applied,
would cause great practical difficulties or hardship. If the Building and
Zoning Committee denies a requested variance, the subdivider has the right to
seek variance from the full County Board; but as indicated in division (C) of
this section, the full County Board shall observe the same standards as the
Building and Zoning Committee in deciding whether to grant or deny a variance.
The Administrator shall promptly forward the variance application to the
Building and Zoning Committee for review.
   (B)   Review by Committee. The Committee shall review the variance
application concurrently with the preliminary plat, and at the same meeting at
which they take action on the preliminary plat, they shall decide on the basis
of the standards set forth in division (C) below whether to grant, with or
without modifications, or to deny the requested variance. A copy of the
Committee’s decision, clearly stating their reasons therefor and exact terms of
any variance granted, shall be attached to the preliminary and final plats. If
the Committee denies a requested variance, the subdivider has the right to seek
variance from the full County Board, but as indicated in division (B) below,
the full County Board shall observe the same standards as the Committee in
deciding whether to grant or deny a variance.
   (C)   Standards for variances. The Committee or the County Board shall not
grant any subdivision variance unless, considering the conditions to be
attached to the variance, if any, they determine that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
these regulations;
      (2)   Strict application of the requirements in §§
92.020 through
92.034 or elsewhere would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to
the applicant, not merely in added expense or inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
requirements that will alleviate the difficulty or hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making; and
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other tracts and, therefore, a variance would be a more
appropriate remedy than an amendment.
(1993 Code, § 92.77) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.078 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended or repealed by simple majority vote of the
County Board, but only after there has been a public hearing conducted by the
Building and Zoning Committee.
(1993 Code, § 92.78) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.079 FEES.
   The subdivider shall pay all fees to the Administrator at the time the last
item of required information pertaining to the plat or plan in question is
submitted. The Administrator shall promptly cause the fees to be deposited in
the county’s General Corporate Fund.
(1993 Code, § 92.79) (Ord. passed 10-17-1956; Ord. passed 10-18-1978; Ord.
passed 9-18-2002; Ord. 2002-14, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Sale of lots without a recorded plat. Any person who sells or leases
for any period exceeding five years any lot, block or part thereof before the
plat of subdivision therefor has been properly recorded shall be guilty of a
petty offense, and may be fined $25 per lot, block or part thereof so sold or
leased. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an offer of sale or acceptance
of deposit by a seller before compliance with 765 ILCS 205/, provided that
compliance occurs before conveyance of any deed to the property.
(765 ILCS 205/5)
   (B)   Destruction of monuments. Any unauthorized person who knowingly
damages, destroys or removes a stake, pin, monument or other survey marker
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor, and may be fined $1,000. This
offense, however, may only be treated as a Class A misdemeanor (with the
respective fine) if it is charged as a violation of state statute.
(765 ILCS 205/11)
   (C)   Other violations. Any person who is convicted of any violation of
these regulations not listed in divisions (A) or (B) of this section may be
fined not more than $1,000.
   (D)   Stated penalties not exclusive. Nothing stated in the above divisions
of this section shall prevent the county from taking any other lawful action to
prevent or punish violations of these regulations.
(1993 Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 2008-03, passed 6-18-2008)
CHAPTER 93: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Short title
   
93.002   Intent and purpose
   
93.003   De-annexed territory
   
93.004   Agricultural exemption
   
93.005   Restrictions on existing permits
   
93.006   Rules and definitions
General Zoning District Regulations
   
93.020   Zoning district intent and purpose
   
93.021   Zone district expansion
   
93.022   Zone district map and boundaries
   
93.023   A Agriculture District
   
93.024   C Conservation District
   
93.025   R-1 through R-4 Single-Family Residential Districts
   
93.026   R-5 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
93.027   R-6 Mobile Home Park District
   
93.028   R-7 Planned Residential District
   
93.029   B-1 Limited Business District
   
93.030   B-2 General Business District
   
93.031   B-3 Highway Business District
   
93.032   B-4 Wholesale Business District
   
93.033   B-5 Planned Business District
   
93.034   M-1 Limited Manufacturing District
   
93.035   M-2 General Manufacturing District
   
93.036   M-3 Heavy Manufacturing District
   
93.037   PD Planned Unit Development District
   
93.038   A Zone Floodplain Overlay District
   
93.039   DK Darwin-Karnak Overlay District
   
93.040   GP Groundwater Protection Overlay District
General Development Regulations
   
93.050   Purpose
   
93.051   Accessory uses
   
93.052   Building specifications
   
93.053   Lot specifications
   
93.054   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
93.055   Abandonment or discontinuance
   
93.056   Repairs, maintenance and alteration
   
93.057   Restoration
   
93.058   Conversion to special use
   
93.059   Performance standards, general
   
93.060   Permitted use and special use
   
93.061   Sewers, individual systems
   
93.062   Percolation tests
   
93.063   Slope
   
93.064   Yard specifications
Supplementary Land Use Regulations
   
93.075   Purpose
   
93.076   Regulations in the vicinity of major airports
   
93.077   Churches and places of formal worship
   
93.078   Drilling for coal and minerals
   
93.079   Drive-in theaters
   
93.080   Buffer strips, fences, walls and hedge
   
93.081   Vehicle repair standards
   
93.082   Gasoline service stations
   
93.083   Home occupations
   
93.084   Hospitals and sanitariums
   
93.085   Junk yards, automobile salvage yards, or storage pools
   
93.086   Lighting controls
   
93.087   Mobile home, parking for inspection and sales
   
93.088   Nursery schools
   
93.089   Nursing and rest homes
   
93.090   Plant nurseries and greenhouse
   
93.091   Public buildings
   
93.092   Public utility stations, exchanges and essential services
   
93.093   Sanitary landfill and landfill
   
93.094   Schools, private and parochial
   
93.095   Surface mining
   
93.096   Swimming pools
   
93.097   Trailers and recreational vehicles
   
93.098   Mining refuse regulation
   
93.099   Telecommunication facilities
   
93.100   Domestic farm animals
   
93.101   Mobile homes
   
93.102   Wine tasting room
   
93.103   Reception venues
   
93.104   Landscape services
   
93.105   Agritourism
   
93.106   Community solar
Sign Regulations
   
93.115   Purpose and intent
   
93.116   General requirements
   
93.117   (Reserved)
   
93.118   All Residential, Conservation and Agricultural Districts
   
93.119   Business District
   
93.120   Incidental signs
   
93.121   Manufacturing Zone District
   
93.122   Temporary signs
   
93.123   Inspection, removal safety
   
93.124   Appeals
   
93.125   Abandoned signs
   
93.126   Nonconforming signs
   
93.127   Prohibited signs
Off-Street Parking and Loading  
   
93.140   Purpose
   
93.141   General requirements
   
93.142   Design standards
   
93.143   Surfacing, parking, storage and display areas
   
93.144   Existing parking; loading facilities and uses
   
93.145   Joint parking facilities
   
93.146   Location of off-street parking facilities
   
93.147   Parking spaces required
   
93.148   Off-street loading
   
93.149   Loading spaces required
Application Permits, Information Required From Applicant  
   
93.160   Purpose
   
93.161   Sign, permit requirements
   
93.162   Amendment, special use and PUD
   
93.163   Sign and area/bulk variance
   
93.164   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
93.165   Emergency and temporary occupancy
   
93.166   Special application; requirements for zoning permits in the General
Flood Plain Districts
Application, Instruction, Procedures, and Processing
   
93.175   Purpose
   
93.176   Routing
   
93.177   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
93.178   Amendment and special use
   
93.179   Special procedures for special uses in the General Flood Plain
District
   
93.180   Conditions attached to special uses
   
93.181   Special use permit changes
   
93.182   Revocation; expiration
   
93.188   Other applicable ordinances
   
93.189   Water supply and fire protection
Administration and Enforcement
   
93.195   Enforcement
   
93.196   Powers and duties
   
93.197   Prosecution
 
   
93.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Corner lot and sign area
   
Appendix B: Fencing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This shall be known as the Madison County, Illinois Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of the zoning code to assist in the
achievement of fair and balanced development, while considering the impact it
has on neighboring property within the county. The county requires an approach
to the use, administration and enforcement of development regulations that
protects existing property owners appropriately; that recognizes developer's
problems yet maintain high development standards; and that produces development
resulting in balanced growth and good, neighborly interaction while also
understanding that every property has its own, unique, situations. Property
uses existing before any differing proposed zoning, special use or variance
consideration will be given due and reasonable deference.
   (B)   This zoning code is not intended to unnecessarily or unreasonably
restrict a property owner's use of its land. The Building and Zoning Committee
and Madison County apply this code by taking into consideration the interests,
expectations, and values of those property owners interested in the development
and use of land, and it maintains balanced flexibility by using reasonable
discretion and judgment to resolve and determine questions and applications
arising under this code. Flexible procedures and the application of them as set
forth in this code is paramount in order to maintain, preserve, and enhance
constitutionally founded interests of property owners.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.003 DE-ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any territory hereafter de-annexed from a city shall automatically be in the
zone classification corresponding to the zone classification while under city
zoning jurisdiction, until duly changed by an amendment to this zoning code
except that the County Board, with the advice of the Zoning Board of Appeals,
may determine any other zoning district or districts herein established if all
legal requirements for zoning the property at the time of the annexation and
the requirements for amending this Zoning Code by the extension of the zoning
district provisions are met.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.004 AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this zoning code shall not be exercised or administered so
as to impose regulations with respect to the erection, maintenance, repair,
alterations, remodeling or extensions of buildings or structures, used or
intended to be used for agricultural purposes upon such land, except that
buildings or structures for agricultural purposes shall be required to conform
to primary structure setback requirements. Permits issued for the erection or
extension of buildings, structures or other purposes described in this section
shall be issued free of charge. In the event that part of a tract of land
ceases to be used primarily for agricultural purposes, then all the provisions
of this zoning code shall apply to that part. Agricultural exemption shall only
be applied to structures strictly used for agricultural purposes located on
lots zoned "A" Agricultural District, where the agricultural equipment or
materials stored within the structure are intended for use on the property on
which the structure is located. Agricultural exemption, for purposes of a
permit issued free of charge, shall only be granted to applicants whose
principal use of the land is agricultural.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.005 RESTRICTIONS ON EXISTING PERMITS.
   (A)   Existing restrictions. Where this zoning code imposes a greater
restriction upon land, buildings or structures than is imposed or required by
existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this
zoning code shall govern.
   (B)   Existing permits. This zoning code is not intended to abrogate or
annul any building permits, zoning permits, or other awful permits issued
before the effective date of this zoning code, April 1, 1975. However, any
requested change in any permit shall follow the procedures and requirements of
this zoning code.
   (C)   Completion permitted. Any building or structure for which a building
permit has been issued prior to the date of enactment of this zoning code may
be completed and used in accordance with the plans, specifications, and permits
on which the building permit was granted, provided construction commences
within 90 days of passage of this zoning code and is diligently prosecuted to
completion within one year.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.006 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent that:
   (A)   Should the courts declare any provisions of this chapter to be invalid
or ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such decision shall be
limited to those provisions which are expressly stated in the decision to be
invalid or ineffective, and all other provisions of this chapter shall continue
to be separately and fully effective.
   (B)    Should the courts find the application of any provision or provisions
of this chapter to any lot, building or other structure or tract of land to be
invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, the effect of such decision shall
be limited to the person, property or situation immediately involved in the
controversy, and the application of any such provision to other persons,
property or situations shall not be affected.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.007 RULES AND DEFINITIONS
   In the application of this zoning code the rules and definitions contained
in this section shall be observed and applied except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. The following shall apply whenever a conflict occurs in
any instance.
   (A)   Rules. Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and
words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and the
plural, the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural,
the singular. The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary; the word MAY
is permissive. The word LOT shall include the words PLOT , PIECE , and PARCEL .
The phrase USED FOR , shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR , DESIGNED FOR ,
INTENDED FOR , OCCUPIED FOR , and MAINTAINED FOR . The word COUNTY shall refer
to and be interpreted to mean county. Section numbers shall be and include all
subsection designations of that numerical sequence.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
      ABANDONMENT.  An action to give up one's rights of interest in property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING or STRUCTURE.    A detached subordinate building or
structure, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main use
of the land and which is located on the same lot with the main building or use.
Structures under 200 square feet are not subject to a building permit but must
meet accessory structure setback requirements as per §
93.051.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A residential dwelling unit, not including
mobile homes, within an accessory structure located on the same lot as a
single-family dwelling. ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS shall not take up more than
1,000 square feet of an accessory structure.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use that is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the premises and does not change the basic character thereof as
determined by its principal use.
      ADULT BUSINESS. Any establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade or business activity in a use such as, but not
limited to the following: Adults-only bookstores, adults-only motion picture
theaters, adult entertainment centers, massage parlors, rap parlors, adult-only
cabarets or adults-only saunas, where explicit sexual conduct is depicted and/
or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly encouraged or tolerated.
      AGRICULTURE. All land used for agricultural purposes that includes the
growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry,
apiculture, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land.
      AGRICULTURAL FARM. An area of land of not less than 40 acres used
entirely for agricultural pursuits as defined in the term AGRICULTURE .
   AGRITOURISM. An enterprise located at a working farm, ranch, or other
agricultural operation conducted for the enjoyment and/or education of
visitors, guests, or clients that generates income for the owner/operator.
      ALLEY. A public access way, which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
      ALTERATIONS. As applies to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the existing facilities, or an
enlargement, whether by horizontal extensions or by increasing in height or the
moving from one location or position to another.
      ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. A change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
      ANIMAL, DOMESTIC. Dogs, cats, rabbits, and similar size animals commonly
kept as household pets, but not including an animal, reptile, bird or species
normally considered wild, as opposed to domesticated.
      ANIMAL, FARM. Farm animals are those, which have historically been bred,
reared and utilized for the production of meat, wool, leather, milk, eggs and
similar products. This definition is inclusive of all farm animals, fowl,
reptiles and fish, such as horses, cattle, rabbits, hogs, sheep, geese,
chicken, ducks, snakes, catfish and emu.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
      ANIMAL, WILD. Wild animals are those animals, fowl, reptiles, and fish of
the North American continent not domesticated such as bears, raccoons,
squirrels, alligators, and Gila monsters; animals, fowl, reptiles and fish from
other continents shall automatically be considered wild.
      APARTMENT. A suite of rooms or a room in a building arranged and intended
for a place of residence of a single-family or a group of individuals living
together as a single housekeeping unit.
      APARTMENT HOTEL. An apartment house, which furnishes for the use of its
tenants, services ordinarily furnished by hotels, but the privileges of which
are not primarily available to the public.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. A multi-family dwelling occupied by four or more family
living independently of each other in dwellings units, such dwelling units
normally being rented or used other than by the day, by the same occupant for a
continuous period ordinarily of six months or more.
      AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for development, including the area to be dedicated for street and
alley rights-of-way and public use.
      AREA, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for streets and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
      AREA OF ZONING LOTS. The total horizontal area (square footage) within
the property lines of a lot, excluding public streets and alleys, meeting the
district requirement of this zoning code.
      ATTACHED BUILDING. A building attached to another building by a common
wall (such wall being a solid wall with or without windows and doors) and a
common roof.
      AUDITORIUM.  A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater,
school, recreation building or other building assigned to the gathering of
people as an audience, to hear lectures, plays and other presentations.
      AUTOMOBILE PARKING AREA. A lot or part thereof used for the storage or
parking of motor vehicles with or without the payment of rent or charges.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display and sale of
new or used automobiles, where repair work is permitted.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles, not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building, or structure used for
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including any
used farm vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and
not being restored to operating conditions; and including the commercial
salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
      BAR. An establishment where the primary purpose is the serving of
alcoholic beverages for consumption by guests and patrons on the premises and
in which the serving of food is either not done or is only incidental to the
consumption of those beverages, including, but not limited to, taverns,
nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
      BARRIER (NATURAL or ARTIFICIAL). Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment, screening by a fence or hedge, or similar
obstruction.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD
. The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
93.038(B)(7).
      BASEMENT. A story having more than one-half its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A residence that provides a small number of rooms
for short-term lodging of transient guests, where the owner/operator occupies
the residence and remains on-site, and where breakfast is provided to guests.
BED AND BREAKFAST INNS do not include long-term rentals of any kind, boarding
houses, or short-term rentals/Airbnbs where there is no owner/operator on site
and breakfast is not served to guests.
      BEEKEEPING. The raising or producing of bees, beeswax, honey, and by-
products.
      BEEKEEPING COLONY. The entire honeybee family or social unit living
together.
      BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT. Honeybee hives, supers, frames, or any other device
used in beekeeping.
      BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to business, commodity service,
or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the premises
where the sign is located or which it is affixed.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways, or exterior boundaries or a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way) or a combination of
streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines or
waterways.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant were meals
are provided for than ten, who are not members of the keeper's family, but not
open on a daily, overnight or per meal basis to transient guests.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum
setback requirements of this zoning code have been complied with.
      BUILDING.    Any structure, whether temporary, semi permanent, or
permanent, designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or
protection of persons, property, chattels, animals or substances of any kind. A
structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by walls and a roof.
BUILDING includes a gas or liquid storage tank in order that such tanks will be
constructed to the same flood damage protection standards. The term includes a
mobile home or prefabricated building, which is affixed on a permanent site and
connected to the required utilities. BUILDING does not include recreational
vehicles or travel trailers.
      BUILDING AND ZONING COMMITTEE. The Building and Zoning Committee of the
County Board.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front wall of the building to
the highest point of the structure.
      BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE .
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which the principal use
of the zoning lot is conducted.
      CHURCH. A religious association providing worship services on a regular
schedule.
      CAMPING TRAILERS.   Also referred to as travel trailers as opposed to a
mobile home. Generally is designed for temporary occupancy as a vacation
dwelling, generally does not have self-contained sanitary facilities, can be
operated independently of utility connections, is limited in width to
approximately eight feet and length to approximately 32 feet, and is designed
to be moved by motorized vehicle.
      CENTERLINE.
         (a)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
         (b)   The original centerline, where the original right-of-way has
been widened irregularly, other than relocation;
         (c) The new centerline wherever a road has been relocated;
         (c)   The survey centerline established by the agency having
jurisdiction over the right-of-way established with an irregular width.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct continuously or periodically
flowing water. Channel flow thus is that water which is flowing within the
limits of defined channel.
      CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm and injured persons but who are not provided with board or room
nor kept overnight on the premises.
      CLUB. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some common purposes and paying regular dues; not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
      COMMISSION, PLANNING.  The Madison County Regional Planning Commission.
      COMMERCIAL FEEDING FACILITY. A structure or enclosed area used for
feeding cattle hogs or other livestock in lots of 100 animals or more and not
otherwise connected with farming operation.
      COMMERCIAL POULTRY FACILITY. A structure or enclosed area used for
feeding and raising farm poultry in excess of 500 domestic fowl and not
otherwise connected with a farming operation.
      COMMON AREA. Any area or space designed for joint use or tenants or
owners occupying a planned unit development or other development.
      COMMUNITY SOLAR. A solar power plant whose electricity is shared by more
than one property.
      CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of individual dwelling units in a multi-
dwelling unit structure on a single parcel of land with common ownership of all
portions of the property except the dwelling units.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A small retail establishment that offers a limited
range of household goods and groceries for sale, including but not limited to
soft drinks, coffee, dairy products, snack foods, bread, magazines, newspapers,
toiletries, and tobacco products. This use does not include liquor stores,
smoke shops, or drug stores.
      COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Madison County, Illinois.
      COVERAGE. Total square footage of ground floor is expressed as square
footage.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short land access street having only one end open for
vehicular traffic and the other permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles.
      DAIRY. Any premises where three or more dairy animals are kept, milked
and maintained; the term DAIRY ANIMAL meaning either cows or goats.
      DARWIN-KARNAK. A soil association that is formed finely textured clayey
sediments that were transported and deposited in slack water. This soil
association has severe limitations due to: A seasonal high water table at or
near the surface, flooding or ponding hazard, slow permeability, high
susceptibility to frost heave, moderated to high shrink-swell potential, and a
high clay content.
      DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area, expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
      DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area, expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
      DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and use of land for
easements, lots and rights-of-way, including materials, alignment, grade and
width of these elements.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to real estate.
         (a)   Including:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of building or an
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000.
            2.   Installing a mobile home on a site or preparing site for a
mobile home.
            3.    Drilling, mining, installing utilities or facilities,
construction of roads, bridges or similar projects valued at more than $1,000.
            4.   Construction or erection of levees, walls, or fences.
            5.   Filling, dredging, grading, excavating or other
nonagricultural alterations of the round surface.
            6.   Storage of materials.
            7.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   Not including:
            1.   Maintenance of existing buildings and facilities such as re-
roofing or re-surfacing.
            2.   Repairs made to a dam bed building that do not change the
building's exterior dimensions and that are valued at less than 50% of the
value of the building before the damage occurred.
            3.   Gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
            4.   Agricultural development activities on farms, including farm
residences as exempted by law.
      DISK, T.V. A thin, flat, circular plate-type object that is placed on
private property or business property to be used to receive satellite images.
These can be placed either on a building or separate from building.
      DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the county within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements of various combinations thereof apply
under this zoning code.
      DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used for vehicles on a zoning or mobile
home lot or for common access to small group of lots, or common parking
facilities.
      DRY CLEANER RETAIL. A retail limited processing dry cleaner primarily
serving individual public consumers.
      DRY CLEANER WHOLESALE. A business primarily processing dry cleaning for
other businesses as opposed to the individual public.
      DUMP. A lot or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning or other means and for whatever purpose,
of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts
thereof, or waste material of any kind.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as
living quarters for one or more families, other than hotels, motels, tourist
homes, clubs, hospitals or similar uses.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.    A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by two or more families each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached site-built or modular principal
building designed for or used as a dwelling exclusively by one family as an
independent housekeeping unit. This includes both frame and post-frame
construction, and does not include mobile homes (See definition of MOBILE
HOME.)
      DWELLING UNIT. A residential unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one family including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EASEMENT. A right to use another person's property, but only for a
limited and specifically named purpose.
      EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT. A business that is primarily engaged
in the sale of food, beverages, or refreshments prepared on the premises to
customers for immediate on-site consumption or for take-out. This is limited to
bars and restaurants as defined in §
93.007.
      ENCLOSED BUILDINGS. A building separated on all sides from adjacent open
space or other building by fixed exterior walls or party walls, with openings
only for windows and doors, and covered by a permanent roof.
      ENCROACHMENT LINES. The limits of obstruction to flood flows. These lines
are generally parallel to the stream. The lines are established by assuming
that the landward (outside) of the encroachment lines will be ultimately
developed in such a way that it will not be available to convey flood flows.
The stream channel and adjoining flood plains between these lines will be
maintained as open and will be adequate to convey the regional flood without
increasing flood heights.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. Established by considering the effect of
encroachment on the hydraulic efficiency of the “flood plain” along a
significant “reach” of the stream. Hydraulic efficiency depends on such factors
as the relative orientation of the channel with respect to the “flood way,” the
natural and manmade characteristics of the flood plain, relative ground level
on both sides of the stream, the type of vegetation of both sides of the
stream, and the resistance of such vegetation to flood flows. In most cases
these factors will not result in equal distances of areas between encroachment
lines on both sides of the stream.
      ESCROW AGENT. The person or persons identified as escrow agents by the
Madison County Subdivision Regulations.
      ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. The erection,
replacement, construction, alteration or maintenance by public utilities or
governmental departments, of underground or overhead, gas, electrical, steam,
water transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply
or disposal systems, including poles, wire, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signal, hydrants
and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by these public utilities,
governmental departments, or commissions or for the public health, safety or
general welfare, but not including buildings.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock,
or any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
there from.
      EXCAVATION CONTRACTING. A business which is primarily engaged in site
preparation activities, such as excavating and grading and/or establishments
primarily engaged in construction equipment rental with operator are also
included. Outside storage of equipment is permitted, provided they are kept in
a neat and orderly condition, and shall be located in the rear yard and
adequately screened from the public roadway by a site proof fence or natural
screening, as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      EXISTING GRADE. The vertical location of the existing ground surface
prior to excavation or filing.
      EXPRESSWAY. A primary highway constructed as a freeway that has complete
control of access.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   A single individual doing their own cooking and living upon the
premises as a separate housekeeping unit; or
         (b)   A collective body of persons doing their own cooking and living
together upon the premises as a separate housekeeping unit in a domestic
relationship based upon birth, marriage, adoption or employment servants; or
         (c)   A group of not more than three unrelated persons doing their own
cooking and living together on the premises as a separate housekeeping unit
pursuant to a mutual housekeeping agreement (not including a group occupying a
boarding or rooming house, club, fraternity or hotel).
      FENCE, OPEN TYPE. A fence that is not a solid structure sealing off the
flow of air. It must be at least 50% open and approved by the Building Official
prior to erection.
      FENCE, SOLID. A fence that blocks the flow of air, such as a concrete or
brick wall; or boards abutting each other including staggered boards on each
side of the fence frame, usually used for privacy. Plans must be approved by
the Building Department prior to erection.
      FILING DATE. The date the applicant has filed the last item of required
data or information constituting a completed application and has paid the
required fee.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material
is deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAT. The final engineering and architectural detail
maps, drawings, and supportive material on which the developer's plan of the
project area is presented and, if approved, will be submitted to the County
Recorder of Deeds.
      FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters, or
the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOOD, 100-YEAR. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Also referred to as the BASE FLOOD .
      FLOOD ELEVATION, REGULATORY. Elevation of the 100-year flood, according
to the best available data.
      FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside the flood way.
      FLOOD PLAIN. The relatively flat area or lowlands adjoining the channel
of a river, stream, watercourse, lake, or ocean which has been or may be
covered by flood water; the land adjacent to a body of water which has been or
may be hereafter covered by flood water including but not limited to the
regional flood.
      FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or longitudinal profile showing the relationship
of water surface elevation to location, the latter generally expressed as
distance above the mouth for a stream of water flowing in an open channel. The
FLOOD PROFILE is generally drawn to show surface elevation for the crest of a
specific flood, but may be prepared for conditions at a given time or stage.
      FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural
conditions, changes or adjustments to properties and structures subject to
flooding primarily for the reduction of elimination of flood damages to lands,
properties, water and sewer facilities, structures and contents of buildings.
      FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the “base flood,”
plus one foot, at any location in the “special flood hazard area”(“SFHA”).
      FLOOD WAY. That portion of a “special flood hazard area” (“SFHA”)
required to store and convey the “base flood.” If not prohibited, building,
building or placing obstructions in a FLOOD WAY will increase flood damages to
other properties.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS (FOR THE PURPOSE OF DETERMINING FLOOR AREA RATIO). The
gross floor area of a building or buildings shall be the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of this building or buildings; measured
from the exterior faces of exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls
separating two buildings. In particular, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall include:
         (a)   Basement space if at least one-half of the basement story height
is above the established curb or ground level;
         (b)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
         (c)   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural
headroom exceeds seven and one-half feet; except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof, for example, bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers;
         (d)   Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven
and one-half feet.
      GARAGE, BUS. Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of
three or more passenger motor buses or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
      GARAGE, BUS or TRUCK. A building which is used or intended to be used for
the storage of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half-tons’ capacity.
      GARAGE PARKING, PRIVATE. A building or portion thereof for the storage of
one or more motor vehicles for persons living on the premises.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the gamily or families resident upon the premises. Such a
garage shall not be used for more than one commercial vehicle and the load
capacity of vehicle shall not exceed one and one-half tons.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage, used for the
care, incidental servicing and sale within the structure, but not including
trucks, tractors, truck trailers, and commercial vehicles exceeding one and
one-half tons’ capacity.
      GARAGE REPAIR. A service business whose primary function if the repair
and service of vehicles, boats, appliances, and similar articles.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building premises or portion thereof used for
the retail sale of gasoline, oil, or other fuel, automotive parts, supplies, or
accessories for motor vehicles and which may include, as an incidental use
only, facilities used for polishing, greasing, washing, or otherwise cleaning
or light servicing of motor vehicles but not including liquefied petroleum gas
distribution facilities.
      GRADING. Excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
      HOME CRAFTS. Creating or manufacturing an item, including, but not
limited to, dress-making, knitting, the manufacture of crafts, woodworking,
drawing, painting, and sculpting. HOME CRAFTS are considered a home occupation
use and subject to the requirements of § 93.083 (Home Occupations).
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling or an
accessory building which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for residential purposes and which does not change the character
thereof.
      HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. An institution devoted primarily to the
maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnoses, treatment, or care
for not less than 24 hours in any week of the general public suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity or other abnormal physical conditions. The
term HOSPITAL as used in this zoning code does not apply to institutions
operating solely for the treatment of insane persons, drug addicts, liquor
addicts, or other types of cases necessitating restraint of patients, and the
term HOSPITAL shall not be used for convalescent, nursing, shelter, or boarding
homes.
      HOTEL. A building designed or used for occupancy normally as the
temporary lodging place of individuals, having at least six guest rooms, where
a general kitchen and dining room may be provided but where there are no
cooking facilities in any guest room.
      IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work, and utilities
(including water, sewer, electric, gas and storm water) to be installed or
agreed to be installed by the sub divider on land to be used for public or
private streets, and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the
general use of lot owners in the subdivision.
      IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
either in, or in conjunction with, the subdivision.
      INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any highway designated by the Illinois Department of
Transportation and approved by the United States Department of Transportation
as a part of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways on July 1,
1972, or thereafter.
      JUNK. Includes, but is not limited to old, dilapidated scrap or abandoned
metal, paper, cardboard, building and construction material and equipment
(including, but not limited to wood, lumber, concrete, etc.), bottles, glass,
tin cans, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags, rubber, boats, tires,
inoperable motor vehicles, machinery parts, and any other manufactured or
constructed object which has outlived its usefulness in its original form
(notwithstanding the fact that the object may have scrap to its/their present
condition and/or visibility, may reasonably be construed to be unsightly,
dangerous or unsanitary.
      JUNKYARD. Any area where scrap, metal, paper, rags, or similar materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled,
including auto and building salvage yards.
      KENNEL. The keeping of more than four dogs, cats or other domesticated
animals over the age of four months in any structure or on any lot for any use
including, but not limited to, the boarding, breeding, or training of animals.
      KITCHENETTE. A small, secondary kitchen area that may be located within
the primary structure or an accessory structure on the property. KITCHENETTES
may have cabinets, a sink, a refrigerator, and/or dishwasher. Ovens, built-in
stovetops, and ranges are not permitted in a kitchenette.
      LAND USE PLAN.    The long-range plan for the desirable use of land in
the county as officially adopted and as amended from time to time by the County
Board.
      LANDSCAPING SERVICES. A business primarily engaged in providing landscape
care and maintenance services for lawns, trees, shrubs, plants or gardens on
private or public property. Services include lawn maintenance, tree trimming,
tree removal, hedge trimming, hedge removal, stump removal and chipping
service. Retail and wholesale sales of products and services are not permitted.
      LAUNDRIES.
         (a)   LAUNDROMAT. A business that provides home-type washing, drying,
and ironing machines for hire to be used by the customers on the premises.
         (b)   COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL LAUNDRY. A business that provides washing,
drying and ironing services operated by the employees on the premises.
      LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified
fraternal organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal
organization regularly meets.
      LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
      LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility (i) that is at least a
three-acre facility with a convenience store, (ii) with separate diesel islands
for fueling commercial motor vehicles, (iii) that sells at retail more than
10,000 gallons of diesel or biodiesel fuel per month, and (iv) with parking
spaces for commercial motor vehicles. "Commercial motor vehicles" has the same
meaning as defined in Section 18b-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building, or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
      LODGING or ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces,
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement but
not open on a daily, overnight or per meal basis to transient guests.
      LOT. A portion or parcel of land (whether a portion of a platted
subdivision or otherwise) occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or
use and its accessories together with such yards as are required under this
zoning code having not less than the minimum area, width, and depth required by
this zoning code for a lot in the district in which such land is situated and
having its principal frontage on a street or on such other means of access as
permitted in accordance with this zoning code. The minimum area of a lot as
defined herein must be an integral unit of land under unified ownership in fee
or in co-tenancy, or under legal control tantamount to such ownership, which
ownership or control must continue for the existence of the building or
buildings permitted to be situated on the lot.
      LOT AREA. See AREA OF ZONING LOT .
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street. The point of intersection of
the street lines is the CORNER . (See Figure 2 in Appendix B at the end of the
chapter).
      LOT, COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal
building or buildings and accessory buildings.
      LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear
lot lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. See LOT, THROUGH .
      LOT, INTERIOR . A lot whose side lines do not abut upon any street.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. The street
on which a building's frontage is oriented shall determine the location of the
front lot line provided the front setback is no less than the average setback
of existing building.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The rear lot line is the lot line or lot lines most
nearly parallel to and most remote from the front lot line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot lines other than front or rear lot lines. A side
lot line separating a lot from a street is called a street side lot line. A
side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior
side lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot, the plat of which has been recorded in the office
of the County Recorder of Deeds.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
      LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angles
to the side lot lines.
      MAIN TRAVELED WAY.    The traveled way of a highway on which through
traffic is carried. In the case of divided highway, the traveled way of each of
the separated roadways for traffic in opposite directions is a main traveled
way. It does not include such facilities as frontage roads, turning roadways or
parking areas.
      MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A combination of maps, drawings, site plans,
charts, and supportive narrative material that portrays total development to be
achieved in the overall project area which provides sufficiently detailed
information to describe the intended character and configuration of development
to be accomplished.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure, used for one family, transportable in one or
more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in
width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 900 or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation. (See definition of
PERMANENT CHASSIS.)
      MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE WIDE. Consists of two mobile units, used for one
family, joined at the side into a single home but kept on their separate
chassis for repeated transportation to a site.
      MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and
the exclusive use of its occupants.
      MOBILE HOME PAD. That part of an individual mobile home space or lot
beneath the home including the concrete portion of the pad.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land under unified ownership or control of
which two or more mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any buildings, structures, tent, vehicle,
or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the mobile
home park; includes courts, developments and communities.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. A portion of a mobile home park designed for the use
or occupancy of one mobile home.
      MODULAR BUILDING UNIT. A factory-fabricated, transportable building unit
designed to be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a
structure to be used for residential, commercial, educational, or industrial
purposes. The Building and Zoning Committee must approve types of modular
homes, and they must fit within the aesthetic and general appearance of homes
and buildings adjacent to and in the general vicinity of the MODULAR BUILDING
UNIT.
      MOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached or detached
sleeping or living units, for the accommodation of transient guests and not
customarily including individual cooking or kitchen facilities, these units
having convenient access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guests or occupants.
      MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building in which freight, brought to the
building by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and
interstate shipment by motor truck.
      NOISOME AND INJURIOUS SUBSTANCE, CONDITIONS AND OPERATIONS.
         (a)   Creation of unreasonable physical hazard by fire, explosion,
radiation or other cause to persons or property.
         (b)   Discharge of any liquid or solid waste into any stream or body
of water or into any public or private disposal system or into the ground so as
to contaminate any water supply including underground water supply.
         (c)   Maintenance or storage of any material either indoors or
outdoors so as to cause or to facilitate the breeding vermin.
         (d)   Emission of smoke, measured at the point of emission, which
constitutes an unreasonable hazard to the health, safety or welfare of any
persons.
         (e)   Fly ash or dust which can cause damage to the health of persons,
animals or plant life or to other forms of property, or excessive soil,
measured at or beyond the property line of the premises on which the aforesaid
fly ash or dust is created or caused.
         (f)   Creation or causation of any reasonably offensive odors
discernible at or beyond any property line of the premises on which the
aforesaid odor is created or caused.
         (g)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonable reflection or direct
glare, by any process, lighting or reflection material at or beyond any
property line of the premises on which the aforesaid reflection or direct glare
is created or caused.
         (h)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonably distracting or
objectionable vibration or electrical disturbances discernible at or beyond any
property line of the premises on which the aforesaid vibration or electrical
disturbance is created or maintained.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building, structure, or portion thereof
conflicting with the provisions of this zoning code applicable to the district
in which it is situated.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land legally existing at the
time of adoption of this zoning code or any amendment thereto and which does
not conform to the use regulations of district in which located.
      NURSERY SCHOOL. A school designed to provide daytime care or instruction
for two or more children from two to five years of age, inclusive.
      NURSING HOME. A building intended for use as a medical service, but do
not require intensive hospital care.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
protection, excavation, channel modification, bridge conduit, culvert,
building, wire, fence, rock gravel, refuse, fill structure or matter in, along,
across, or projecting into any channel, water course, or regulatory flood
hazard area which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of
water, either in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such
water might carry the same downstream to the damage of life or property.
      OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL. An office (other than a service office and other
than an office for care or treatment of, or medical attention to, animals as
distinguished from persons) for the practice of professions, such as the
offices of urban planners, physicians, dentists, attorneys-at-law, architects,
engineers, artists, musicians, teachers, accountants and others who through
training are qualified to perform services of a professional nature, or the
offices of a governmental agency, and where there is no storage, sale or
display of merchandise on the premises.
      OFFICE, SERVICE. An office in which offers services by real estate
agents, insurance agents, public stenographers, brokers or others who through
raining are duly qualified to perform services of an executive nature.
      OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land dedicated for parks, green spaces, or other
recreational purposes.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. The highest point on the bank of a normal stage
channel at which the water level has been for a sufficient period to leave a
definite mark.
      PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street
or public way, designed, arranged, and made available for the storage of
private passenger automobiles only, or occupants of the building or building
for which the parking area is developed and is accessory.
      PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. Any open, hard surfaced area, other than a street
or other public way, used for the parking of automobiles or other motor
vehicles and available to the public whether for a fee or fee for clients or
customers.
      PARKING LANE. A lane of a street used primarily for vehicular parking.
      PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. A public or private parking area of not less
than 200 square feet, ten feet by 20 feet, exclusive of access drives, or
aisles, ramps, or columns.
      PERMANENT CHASSIS.    The entire transportation system of a mobile home
which is designed to remain permanent and comprised of the following
subsystems:
         (a)    Drawbar and coupling mechanism. Rigid assembly, (usually an “A”
frame) upon which is mounted a coupling mechanism, which connects the mobile
home's frame to the towing vehicle.
         (b)   Frame. The fabricated rigid substructure which provides
considerable support to the affixed mobile home structure both during transport
and on-site; and also provides a platform for securement of the running gear
assembly, the drawbar and coupling mechanism.
         (c)   Running gear assembly. The subsystem consisting of suspension
springs, axles, bearings, wheels, hubs, tires and brakes, with their related
hardware.
         (d)   Lights. Safety lights and associated wiring required by
applicable U.S. Department of Transportation regulations.
      PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation of similar entity.
      PLACE. An open, unoccupied space, other than a street or alley,
permanently reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A planned unit development is a
comprehensively planned development containing residential, commercial,
industrial or other land uses on an area of land in individual, partnership, or
corporate ownership, and under unified control. A planned unit development may
contain a single type of land use or combination of land uses.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT. A zone district that is co-
extensive with a PUD Project Area, is based upon, and approved PUD master
development plan.
      PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the developer prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required in
this zoning code and which plans shall conform to the requirements of the
county as to scale and details.
      PLAT. The maps, drawings, charts, specifications, and other documents
complying with all applicable provisions of the county subdivision regulations,
which constitute the plan for subdivision.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final engineering and architectural detail maps,
drawings, and supportive material on which the developer's plan of the project
area is presented and, if approved, will be submitted to the County Recorder of
Deeds for recording.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. Preliminary engineering and architectural maps,
drawings, charts and supportive material indicating the proposed layout of the
project area.
      PLOT. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or metes and bounds.
      PROJECT AREA. That territory intended to be zoned as PUD District,
developed as a planned unit development, and portrayed and defined accordingly
in the master development.
      POWER SUPPLY ASSEMBLY. The conductors, including the grounding
conductors, insulated from one another, the connectors, attachment plug caps
and all other fittings, grommets or devices installed for the purpose of
delivering energy from the service equipment to the distribution panel within
the mobile home.
      PREHISTORIC STONE ARTIFACTS. Any objects pertaining to or belonging to
the era before recorded history.
      PREMISES. A lot together with all the buildings and uses thereon.
      PRIMARY HIGHWAY. Any highway, other than an interstate highway,
designated by the Illinois Department of Transportation and approved by the
United States Department of Transportation as a part of the Federal Aid Primary
System on July 1, 1972, or thereafter.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
      PRIVATE STREET. Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to a local governmental unit.
      PROPERTY LINE. A recorded boundary of a plot or plat.
      PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any area indicated on the zoning map, as “P”, such as
a public park, recreation area, public school site, cemetery, or other similar
open space, shall not be used for any other purpose than that designated; and
when the use of the area is discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned to
the most restricted adjoining district.
      PUBLIC SYSTEM (WATER OR SYSTEM). A system, which is owned and operated by
a local governmental authority or by an established public utility company.
Such systems are usually existing systems serving a municipality, a township,
an urban county, or a water or sewer district established and directly
controlled under the laws of this state.
      RAILROAD FREIGHT CAR. A railway car designed for carrying freight, which
may include boxcars, transporter wagons, gondolas, hoppers, or stock cars.
RAILROAD FREIGHT CARS may be used as storage structures accessory to the
primary use on the property within certain zoning districts, provided all terms
of the building code are met. This structure or vehicle shall not be considered
as residential structures or dwelling units. RAILROAD FREIGHT CARS differ from
shipping containers or freight containers in that they are on wheels (see
definition of TRAILER, LARGE TRANSPORT OR INTERMODAL SHIPPING CONTAINER).
      REACH.    A hydraulic engineering term to describe longitudinal segments
of a stream or river. Reach will generally include the segment of the flood
plain where flood heights are primarily controlled by manmade or natural flood
plain obstructions or restrictions. In an urban area, the segment of a stream
or river between two consecutive bridge crossings would most likely be a reach.
      RECEPTION VENUE. A permanent facility which is rented by individuals or
groups to accommodate private functions including, but not limited to,
banquets, weddings, family reunions, anniversaries and other similar
celebrations. Such a use may include the catering of food and alcoholic
beverages for on-premises consumption only during scheduled events and not open
to the general public.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Any travel trailer or other vehicular portable
structure designed to be used as a temporary occupancy for travel or
recreational use. This includes any motor home, truck slide-in camper, fifth
wheel trailer, tent trailer, pop-up trailer, personal animal trailer, any type
of three- or four-wheeled all-terrain vehicle (ATV), boat, boat trailer, raft,
aircraft, dune buggie, snowmobile, personal water craft, all-terrain vehicle
and vehicle dollie, and trailers used for transporting the vehicles listed
herein. 
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood having an average frequency of occurrence of the
order of once in 100 years, although the flood may occur in any year. It is
based on statistical analysis of stream flow records available for the
watershed or analysis of rainfall and runoff characteristics in the general
area of the watershed as well as large floods which have occurred in the past.
This is not necessarily the greatest flood that may occur, since unusual
conditions, such as extraordinary precipitation or jams in bridge openings can
cause flood elevations to be greater than the regional flood at unpredictable
intervals.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. This flood is generally being recognized and accepted
nationally by federal and non-federal interests as one with an average
frequency, of occurrence on the order of once in 100 years. The regulatory
flood is often used to define, for instance, the outer boundary lines of flood
hazard district in a flood plain zoning code or a related regulation (see
REGIONAL FLOOD ).
      REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation in relation to mean sea level
of the crest of regulatory flood.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      RESIDENCE.    A stationary detached principal building designed for or
used as a dwelling as distinguished from a manufactured (dwelling) home.
      RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to,
cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias, which
gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as well as
kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises for
serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include any bar attached to or
within the RESTAURANT. Facilities that operate a convenience store and/or
provide fueling for any vehicle are not considered a RESTAURANT. RESTAURANTS
shall operate with a full commercial kitchen as defined in 17-2-9 "I" of the
International Building Code (IBC).
      ROAD, COUNTY. A term denoting a tract of land, which is used primarily
for the purpose of vehicular movement and includes all of the facilities and
improvements within the right-of-way. This tract of land must have been
presented to and accepted by the county.
      ROOF. The external upper covering of a building.
      ROOF LINE. A horizontal line parallel to the average ground level of the
structure along the front of the building designating the highest point of a
flat roof, or where the flat surface area of a gable, hip, mansard, or gambrel
roof is in view from the ground level, that line of demarcation separating the
roof and the vertically structured facade, or line along the front of the
building delimiting the roof line between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and
gambrel roots.
      ROOM. An un-subdivided portion of the interior of a dwelling unit,
excluding bathrooms, kitchens, closets, hallways, and service porches and the
like.
      SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear
lot line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or
rear yard.
      SIGN. Any letters, figures, design, symbol trademark or illuminating
device intended to attract attention to any place, subject, person, firm,
corporation, public performance, article, machine or merchandise whatsoever and
painted, printed or constructed and displayed in any manner whatsoever out of
doors for advertising, identification or announcement purposes.
      SIGN AREA. The total surface area of the entire sign, including all parts
and appurtenances thereof (except principal supports).
      SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. As used in this zoning code, a sign used for
purposes of notification of the public of an event or other occurrence of
public interest, such as church service, political rally, civic meeting or
similar events.
      SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. As used in this zoning code, a sign advertising the
development or improvement of a property by a builder, contractor, or other
person furnishing services, materials, or labor to the premises, which sign is
intended for a limited period of display, and erected on the same lot with the
work being done.
      SIGN, FLASHING. Any sign utilizing the repeated or intermittent flashing
of light.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. Detached sign, which is supported by one or more
uprights, poles or braces in or upon the ground.
      SIGN, IDENTITY. Any sign, which carries only the name of the firm,
person, the major enterprise, or the principal product, offered for sale on the
premises, or combination of these.
      SIGN, MARQUEE. A changeable copy sign freestanding.
      SIGN, MOBILE MARQUEE. A sign designed to be transported or transportable
on a vehicle, trailer, or similar unit.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. A display sign which is attached directly to the wall
of a building and which extends more than one foot from the face of the wall.
      SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent, or
lease of the specific lot or building upon which the sign is erected or
displayed.
      SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of
building or structure.
      SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A sign advertising the general development, sale, or
subdivision of land, and displayed or erected upon the subject property, as
distinguished from a real estate sign.
      SIGN, MISCELLANEOUS. A sign, banner or other advertising device or
display constructed of cloth, canvas, cardboard, wall board, or other light
temporary material, with or without a structural frame, intended for a
temporary period of display, such as decorative displays for holidays or public
demonstration.
      SIGN, WALL. Any sign painted on, attached to, or erected against the wall
of a building, or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
parallel to the plane of the wall and extending not more than one foot from the
face of the wall.
      SITE. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
      SITE PLAN. Maps, charts, drawings, architectural renderings, photographs
and other visual media showing proposed development of physical facilities to
be constructed within PUD project area or any development.
      SLOPE. The degree of natural inclination of existing ground.
      SLOPE, STEEP. Lands with a slope of 12% or greater and those lands with a
7% to 12% slope which are especially susceptible to soil erosion.
      SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or SFHA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the county that is subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHA's of the
county are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
county, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), dated April
15, 1982.
      SPECIAL USE. This zoning code divides the entire county into zoning
districts and in each district, there are mutually compatible uses which are
permitted. It is recognized, however, that other uses may be necessary or
desirable but their potential influence on permitted uses only are allowed
under certain conditions.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. Any building which is located on a lot on which is
designed, arranged, used, or intended to be used for housing horses for the
private use of occupants of the dwelling.
      STABLE, LIVERY. Any building, other than a private stable, designed,
arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of horses and horse-drawn
livery, or both.
      STAND, ROADSIDE. A structure for the display and sale of only farm
products that are produced on the premises.
      STANDARD PROJECT FLOOD. An estimated or hypothetical flood that might be
expected from the most severe combination of meteorological and hydrological
conditions that are considered reasonable characteristic of the area in which
the drainage basin is located, excluding extremely rare combinations. Such
floods are intended as practicable expressions of the degree or protection that
should be sought in the design of flood control works, the failure of which
might be disastrous.
      STORAGE CAPACITY OF A FLOOD PLAIN. The volume of space above an area of
flood plain land that can by occupied by floodwater of a given stage at a given
time, regardless of whether the water is moving.
      STORAGE CONTAINER. See TRAILER, LARGE TRANSPORT OR INTERMODAl SHIPPING
CONTAINER.
      STREET. A public or private way for the purpose of vehicular travel. The
term includes all facilities which normally occur within the right-of-way; it
shall also include such other designation for a street as; a highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, thruway, road, pike, avenue, boulevard, lane, place,
drive, court, or as otherwise designated, but excluding an alley or way for
pedestrian use only.
      STREET, AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY. Area service highways interconnect
collections and land access streets with the principal system and vice versa,
bring all developed areas within a reasonable distance of principal streets,
connect and provide secondary service to smaller communities, may provide
access to abutting property, and have a medium volume design capacity and
travel speeds.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. Collector streets interconnect the principal street
system with land access streets; provide internal circulation within
residential, commercial, and industrial areas; provide access to butting
properties; and have a moderate volume design capacity and travel speeds.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A short, land access street, having only one end open
for vehicular traffic and other permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles.
      STREET, DEAD END. Land access streets similar to cul-de-sacs except that
they provide no turnaround circle at the closed end.
      STREET, LAND ACCESS. Land access streets provide access to abutting
properties, have relatively short travel distance, and have a low volume design
capacity and travel speeds.
      STREET, LOOPED. Land access streets having two open ends, each end
generally connected with the same street, no other streets intersecting between
its ends, and property fronts on both sides of the street.
      STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS or SERVICE ROAD. A land access street parallel
and adjacent to area service highways providing access to abutting properties.
      STREET, STUB. A street that is temporarily terminated, but is planned for
future continuation.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent
or temporary location on the ground but not including poles, lines, cables and
other transmission.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
The term does not, however include either: Any project for improvement of a
structure to comply with, existing state or local health, sanitary or safety
code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions, or any alteration of a structure or site documented as deserving
preservation by the State of Illinois Department of Conservation or listed on
the National Register of Historic places.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any structure or structures used for the
receiving and/or dispersal of radio, television, microwave, cellular telephone,
paging, enhanced specialized mobile radio, personal communications services and
similar technologies.
      TOWER. An exceptionally tall building or superstructure that is use for
either residential or business-related purposes. An exceptionally tall
structure that is used to place equipment used in the transmission of images or
sound.
      TRACT OF LAND, NON-URBAN. For the purposes of this zoning code, a NON-
URBAN TRACT OF LAND is a tract of land comprised of at least five acres.
      TRACT OF LAND, NON-URBAN, RESIDENTIAL. For the purpose of this zoning
code, a NON-URBAN RESIDENTIAL TRACT OF LAND is a tract of land of less than
five acres in an agricultural district.
      TRAILER, LARGE TRANSPORT OR INTERMODAL SHIPPING CONTAINER. A large cargo
vehicle designed to be hauled by a truck, tractor, ship or railcar. Also called
a shipping container or freight container. LARGE TRANSPORT TRAILERS, or
shipping containers, may be used as storage structures accessory to the primary
use on the property within certain zoning districts, provided all terms of the
building code are met. Railroad freight cars are not considered INTERMODAL
SHIPPING CONTAINERS and may not be considered or utilized for residential
structures or dwelling units.
      TRAILER, LARGE TRANSPORT. A large cargo vehicle designed to be hauled by
a truck or tractor. In the case of this chapter, this is also a structure that
can be used as a storage building in a designated area within the chapter,
provided all terms of the building code are met. This structure or vehicle
shall not be considered as residential structure.
      TRAILER, UTILITY. A small non-motorized vehicle which is generally pulled
by a motorized vehicle and features an open-top or closed rear cargo area (bed)
and is used for the hauling of light loads.
      TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any park, court, camp, or site of land designed,
maintained or intended for the purpose of providing a temporary location or
accommodations for any travel trailers or similar devices upon which any travel
trailers or similar devices are parked or located, including all buildings used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment or accessories thereof, whether
or not the same or any part is held or operated for gain, excepting, however,
automobile or travel trailer sales lots on which unoccupied units are parked
for inspection and sale.
      TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD. Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, trailers, tractors, and including commercial
vehicles; while not loading or unloading, which exceed one and one-half tons in
capacity.
      USE.  The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or
leased.
      VEHICLE. A receptacle in which something is placed in order to be moved
by some means of conveyance of wheels, runners, or similar methods.
      VEHICLE REPAIR, COMMERCIAL. Includes general vehicle service and repair
in non-residential areas provided that zoning district regulations and
standards in §
93.081 are met.
      VEHICLE REPAIR, HOBBY or PERSONAL. Limited to vehicles in which the
property owner or occupant has an ownership, leasehold, or other interest in
the vehicle under repair provided that zoning district regulations and
standards in §
93.081 are met.
      VARIANCE. A permit granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, varying
specific area\bulk regulations, due to unusual circumstances.
      YARD. An open spaced not occupied or obstructed by any structure or
portion of structure, except fences as regulated and other wise expressly
provided for herein.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between
the front lot line and the nearest line or point of the principal building.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest line or point of the principal building.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the side lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.   Wherever in this zoning code the term ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR is used it shall mean the Zoning Administrator appointed by the
County Board and such deputies or assistants as have been or shall be duly
appointed. That officer is hereby authorized and it is his or her duty at the
direction of the County Board Building and Zoning Committee to administer and
enforce the zoning code, making such  determinations, interpretations and
orders as are necessary therefore, and requiring such plats, plans and other
descriptive material in connection with application for permits a are necessary
for him or her to judge compliance with the zoning code.
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. An appellate, interpretive, and advisory body
designated to assist in the administration of this zoning code.
      ZONING CERTIFICATE. A document issued by the Zoning Administrator
authorizing building, structure, or uses consistent with the terms of this
zoning code.
      ZONING MAP.    The zoning map or maps of Madison County, together with
all amendments subsequently adopted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2014-15,
passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2015-06, passed 8-17-2015; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-
2016; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-
01, passed 3-5-2024)
GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 93.020 ZONING DISTRICT INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   For the purposes of this chapter the entire county is divided into the
following districts:
  Minimum District Size in Acres
                                      Minimum District Size in Acres
A   Agricultural                      40
C   Conservation                      None
Residential Districts
R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District   15
R-2 Single-Family Dwelling District   10
R-3 Single-Family Dwelling District   5
R-4 Single-Family Dwelling District   5
R-5 Multiple-Family Dwelling District 2
R-6 Mobile Home Park District         5
R-7 Planned Residential District      None
Business and Manufacturing Districts
B-1 Limited Business District         1
B-2 General Business District         1
B-3 Highway Business District         1
B-4 Wholesale Business District       1
B-5 Planned Business District         None
M-1 Limited Manufacturing District    5
M-2 General Manufacturing District    5
M-3 Heavy Manufacturing District      10
Special Districts
PD  Planned Unit Development District None
A   Zone Flood Plane Overlay District None
DK  Darwin-Karnak Overlay District    None
 
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.021 ZONE DISTRICT EXPANSION.
   An existing zoning district may be changed by expansion of the district into
a contiguous district, and the change need not conform to minimum district
sizes, nor shall any district involved in the change be required to meet a
minimum district size.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.022 ZONE DISTRICT MAP AND BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the
county zone district map. The zoning district and boundaries are adopted and
established as shown on the zone district map, together with all notations,
references, data, district boundaries, and other information thereof, and are
made a part of this chapter by reference. The zoning map properly attested
shall remain on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator. Zoning district
boundaries shall be as follows:
   (A)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the center lines of streets, the center lines of alleys, or the
center lines of highways, these district boundaries shall be construed as being
the center line of that street, alley, or highway.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (C)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, the boundary
shall be deemed located at the railroad right-of-way line.
   (D)   Where a boundary of a district follows a stream, lake, or other body
of water, the boundary line shall be construed to be the centerline of the
stream, otherwise at the limit of the jurisdiction of the county unless
otherwise indicated.
   (E)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
section lines, quarter lines, quarter-quarter section lines, or survey and
claim lines, the lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (F)   Any area shown on the zoning map as park, playground, school,
cemetery, water, street or right-of-way, shall be subject to the zoning
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (G)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated in the
manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining each side of this
street, alley or public way shall automatically extend to the center of the
vacation and all area included in the vacation shall thereafter be subject to
all regulations of the extended districts.
   (H)   Where any land or territory within the jurisdiction of the county is
not shown to be located in a district, the zoning regulations of the most
restrictive adjoining district shall govern.
   (I)   The regulatory flood elevation at any point in question shall be the
governing factor in locating a Floodplain District boundary on the land.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.023 A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The A Agricultural District consists of areas where soil,
water, vegetation, and topographical resources generally provide conditions
well suited to the raising of crops and domestic animals and reflects those
areas where agricultural land uses have traditionally existed. The district is
designed to prevent the intrusion of nonagricultural land use and development
that would hinder agricultural pursuits by reason of congestion on public
roads, chemical and biological pollution of air and water resources, soil
erosion, and the depletion of natural cover causing excessive runoff of storm
water onto and across agricultural and. The district is designed to protect and
preserve areas of high agricultural productivity and is intended to preserve
conditions suitable to agricultural pursuits.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size.
         (a)   One additional single-family detached dwelling may be so located
as a permitted use on the same tract for each additional 40 acres with a
minimum of 100 feet between both structures. Addition of any single family
detached dwelling in excess of the number above stipulated shall be by rezoning
the tract to a residential classification. Any contiguous agricultural tract or
lot under single ownership may be subdivided once for the purpose of erecting a
single family detached dwelling, in conformance with the subdivision
regulations of the county and all supplemental revisions thereof.
         (b)   One additional single-family detached dwelling may be so located
as a permitted use on the same tract for each additional 40 acres. Addition of
any single-family detached dwelling in excess of the number above stipulated
shall be by rezoning the tract to a residential classification. Any contiguous
agricultural tract or lot under single ownership may be subdivided once for the
purpose of erecting a single-family detached dwelling, in conformance with the
subdivision regulations of the county and all supplemental revisions thereof.
      (2)   Setback lines. No primary structure is to be erected within 40 feet
of any public roadway, right-of-way line, private roadway easement or any other
property boundary line. See §
93.051 for accessory structure requirements.
      (3)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional regulations.
 
Fences  §
        93.080
        §§
Parking 93.140 to
        93.149
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
      (4)   Dwelling standards. Non-urban and non-farm single-family dwellings
shall have a total floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each
dwelling unit, measured from the outside walls, including utility rooms but
excluding all other areas not used for living or sleeping purposes.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All land used for agricultural purposes that includes the growing
of farm crops, truck garden crops, farm animal and poultry husbandry,
beekeeping, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land.
      (2)   Grain elevators and storage.
      (3)   (a)   Private lakes, ponds, or other bodies of water including fee
fishing and clubhouses, provided that no building, parking lot, or other
intense use activity is located closer than 250 feet to any dwelling on another
zoning lot. Any private lake, pond, or other body of water must also be a
minimum of 250 feet from any dwelling on an adjacent zoning lot that does not
have use privileges to the lake or pond.
         (b)   Should a pond be located within 250 feet of any dwelling on
another zoning lot a variance shall be required. In addition, the pond shall
meet requirements for the construction of retention basins as per the county
stormwater ordinance, including but not limited to, review and approval by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (4)   Greenhouses, wholesale and retail.
      (5)   Hang-gliding fields, no sales and service.
      (6)   Living quarters for persons employed in agricultural or related
activities that are conducted on the premises.
      (7)   Major utility transmission facilities.
      (8)   [Reserved].
      (9)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly owned
and operated.
      (10)   Public service uses including filtration plants, pump stations,
water reservoirs, police and fire stations or other governmental uses of the
county.
      (11)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facility
      (12)   Single-family dwellings, frame construction, on a non-urban lot,
non-farm lot, or agricultural farm.
      (13)   Schools, elementary and high, and playgrounds, school bus garages
and athletic fields auxiliary thereto.
      (14)   (a)   Temporary produce stands for the sale of agricultural
produce raised on the premises, provided that adequate off-street parking is
available and that traffic congestion or hazard would not be created in
conjunction with the location or access thereto; and, the sales stand is
operated by the farm owner, his or her family, or an employee of the farm.
         (b)   Temporary buildings, not to exceed 100 square feet may be used
in lieu of permanent buildings, provided it is built on skids, only used for
storage, any electrical service must be located on a separate pole, and the
appearance of the building must be in character of an agricultural or
residential building and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (15)   Large transport trailer. (See §
93.097).
      (16)   T.V. disks.
      (17)   Ultra-light landing strip, no sales or service.
      (18)   Telecommunication facility not to exceed 200 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099)
      (19)   Modular building unit to be used as a permanent residence,
provided it meets all of the requirements of the Madison County Building Code
for placement. These are to be only modular homes that have received prior
approval of the Building and Zoning Committee, and are on file in the office of
the Building Department.
      (20)   Single-family dwellings, post-frame/pole barn-style construction,
on lots 10 or more acres in size.
      (21)   Churches, rectories, and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (22)   Personal or commercial storage of equipment, materials, and the
like on a lot ten or more acres in size where storage is located in a fully-
enclosed structure on the property.
   (D)   A Special uses. (See §§
93.162,
93.178)
      (1)   Agricultural implement and machinery sales, service and repair.
      (2)   Animal feed, storage, preparation, grinding and mixing-wholesale
and retail.
      (3)   Blacksmith or welding shop.
      (4)   Fertilizer sales, bulk storage, mixing of chemicals, seed and other
agriculture related products.
      (5)   Animal hospitals, provided that adequate safeguards, structural,
mechanical and location shall be provided to protect adjacent properties from
the effects of noisome or injurious substances, conditions, and operations.
      (6)   Excavation contracting on a lot that is at least five acres.
      (7)   Livestock depots and sales yards.
      (8)   Milk depots.
      (9)   Milk processing and distribution including pasteurizing and
manufacture of ice cream including the processing or manufacture of cheese.
      (10)   Airports or aircraft landing fields.
      (11)   Carnivals, circuses and similar amusement enterprises.
      (12)   Cemeteries, including crematories, mausoleums in conjunction
therewith.
      (13)   Colleges and universities, including dormitories, fraternities,
sororities, and other accessory buildings and structures or trade school.
      (14)   Explosives of any kind.
      (15)   Golf courses, regulation size, but not including “par 3" golf
courses, commercially operated driving ranges or miniature golf course; and
provided that no club houses or accessory building shall be located nearer that
500 feet to any dwelling on another zoning lot.
      (16)   Gun clubs, with or without indoor or outdoor ranges, if located
not nearer than 1,000 feet to any residence other than that of the owner or
lessee of the site. This includes facilities offering and providing conceal and
carry lessons and firearm safety classes.
      (17)   Kennels, pet grooming, and pet training.
      (18)   Mining, loading and hauling of coal, sand, gravel, topsoil, or
other aggregate or minerals, including equipment, buildings or structures for
screening, crushing, mixing, washing or storage, provided that:
         (a)   No open pit or shaft is less than 500 feet from an existing
residence or Residence District established by this zoning code; and
         (b)   All buildings or structures for screening, crushing, washing,
mixing, or storage are located not less than 1,000 feet from an existing
residence or any Residence District established by this zoning code.
      (19)   Mobile home in compliance with §
93.101
      (20)   Overnight campgrounds.
      (21)   Passenger depots.
      (22)   Private clubs or lodges, except those the chief activity of which
is a service customarily carried on as a business.
      (23)   Private recreational areas or camps.
      (24)   Propane and fuel oil sales.
      (25)   Railroad classification yards.
      (26)   Rest homes, nursing homes, hospitals and sanitariums, institutions
for the aged and for children. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089.)
      (27)   Sales yards, wholesale or retail, for agricultural products
including, but not necessarily limited to, fruits, vegetables, flowers, plants,
and the like.
      (28)   Sanitary and natural material landfills to include any combustible
or noncombustible materials.
      (29)   Winery with tasting room.
      (30)   Travel trailer parks.
      (31)   Landscaping services.
      (32)   Wind turbines no larger than 150 feet in height. Minimum setback
shall be 100% of the turbine height or 50 feet from all property lines,
whichever distance is greater.
      (33)   Rock concerts, beer blasts or any other similar activity when
operated on an individual's property.
      (34)   Type “B” home occupations in accordance with §
93.083.
      (35)   Bed and Breakfast Inn.
      (36)   Antique Shop.
      (37)   Riding academy and public stables.
      (38)   Reception venue in compliance with §
93.103.
      (39)   Agritourism operations in compliance with §
93.105.
      (40)   Community solar (see §
93.106).
      (41)   Single-family dwellings, post-frame/pole barn-style construction,
on lots 2.0 - 9.99 acres in size.
      (42)   Single-family dwellings, storage container-style construction.
      (43)   Accessory dwelling units on lots at least two acres in size, where
the dwelling unit located within an accessory structure is a maximum of 1,000
square feet. Only permitted on public sewers or an approved private sewage
system, and the sewer system of the accessory structure dwelling unit may be
combined or connected with the principal dwelling structure's sewer system
subject to inspection and approval by all necessary entities including, but not
limited to, the Building and Zoning Department. Accessory dwelling units may be
equipped with a full kitchen subject to compliance with all applicable codes,
regulations, and laws and subject to inspection and approval by all necessary
entities including, but not limited to, the Building and Zoning Department.
      (44)   Personal or commercial storage of equipment, materials, and the
like on a lot 5.0 - 9.99 acres in size where storage is located in a fully-
enclosed structure on the property.
   (E)   Permitted accessory uses. (See §
93.051, §
93.052). Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal uses of the lot or tract of land, including the following:
      (1)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front driveway at least
30 feet back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or
trailer stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side
property line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied, and
parked in an orderly and organized fashion.
      (2)   Construction: Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings
for sale or rental offices or show houses for use during construction
operations; provided all other regulations of the district are complied with,
but in no case shall this office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year.
      (3)   Horses: Keeping of horses for private purposes only, and not for
rent or hire on a zoning lot whose principal use is intended to be a one-family
dwelling provided that at least one acre is allocated for each animal, that all
buildings for housing these animals shall be subject to all requirements for
accessory buildings in the district, and that the buildings are located at
least 100 feet from the nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot,
or 50 feet from the nearest side lot line whichever is greater.
      (4)   Pets: The keeping of not more than four domesticated animals over
the age of four months on the premises provided, however, that not more than
three domesticated animals over the age of four months be kept on a non-urban,
residential tract of land of five acres or less.
      (5)   Private: Greenhouses, tool sheds, garages, or carports, tennis
courts, patios, swimming pools.
      (6)   Vegetable gardens.
      (7)   Permitted signs.
      (8)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
      (9)   Type “A” home occupations in accordance with §
93.083.
      (10)   Agricultural uses on non- urban tracts of land, where the
principal use on the property is intended to be a single-family dwelling.
Provided the use is operated with sound agricultural practices and does not
create nuisance, on lots two to five acres, not more than five colonies of
domestic honeybees are allowed. On lots over five acres, not more than two
colonies of domestic honeybees are allowed per acre; one livestock, including
horses (kept for private purposes only, not for paid lessons, rent, or hire),
cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, or similar animals, is allowed per acre; and not
more than six fowl, including chickens, ducks, or similar animals, are allowed
per acre on lots less than two acres. Not more than ten fowl, including
chickens, ducks, or similar animals, are allowed per acre on land with two or
more acres. When farm animals are maintained on the property, all buildings for
housing these animals shall be subject to all requirements for accessory
buildings in the district and must be located at least 100 feet from the
nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot or 50 feet from the
nearest lot line, whichever is greater. All grazing areas must be fenced in
accordance with this code. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this
chapter, shall be enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will
not become free roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry
practices of the day, shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from
adverse weather. Also consistent with then current animal husbandry practices,
animals shall be provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are
kept, including areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy
manner so as to not attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
See §
93.100.
      (11)   Beekeeping in accordance with §
93.100.
      (12)   Domestic farm animals on non-urban, residential tracts of land in
accordance with §
93.100.
      (13)   Vehicle repair, hobby or personal (see §
93.081).
      (14)   Solar panels.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or, is not in running condition; or is in such a
condition that it is inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted.
      (2)   Junk yards.
      (3)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials.
      (4)   Manufacturing.
      (5)   Railroad freight cars.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2014-15,
passed 11-19-14; Ord. 2015-06, passed 8-17-2015; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-
2016; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-
01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.024 C CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The C Conservation District consists of areas within which
natural topography creates practical difficulty for compact urban development.
Site location for buildings may be difficult on small tracts, adequate and safe
traffic circulation systems are problematic, engineering of utility systems and
storm water drainage entails special circumstances and difficulties, and
erosion can become a significant consideration. This can result in
disproportionate or burdensome expenditures of public funds for the provisions
of necessary supporting roads and public facilities. It is the intent and
purpose of this district to provide for appropriate densities to preserve and
enhance the natural conditions of such areas and to reduce the disproportionate
cost of public facilities, by providing for appropriate uses and density
patterns.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than three acres
and a width at the established building line of not less than 200 feet. A
permitted nonresidential principal use of a building, other than a public
service use, shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less
than three acres.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.
      (3)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 50 feet shall be
provided.
      (4)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 25 feet, except where a side yard adjoins a street the minimum width of
the yard shall be increased to 50 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 75 feet shall be provided.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 15% of the area of the zoning lot may
be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed
0.3.
      (8)   Dwelling standards. Single-family dwellings shall have a total
floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each dwelling unit, measured
from the outside walls, including utility rooms but excluding all other areas
not used for living or sleeping purposes.
      (9)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional regulations:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   (a)   Fishing lakes, including fee fishing, or clubs provided that
no building, parking lot, or other intense use activity is located nearer than
250 feet to any dwelling on another zoning lot.
         (b)   Should a pond be located within 250 feet of any dwelling on
another zoning lot a variance shall be required. In addition, the pond shall
meet requirements for the construction of retention basins as per the county
stormwater ordinance, including but not limited to, review and approval by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (2)   Living quarters for persons employed in agricultural or related
activities that are conducted on the premises.
      (3)   Greenhouses, wholesale and retail.
      (4)   Public service uses including filtration plants, pump stations,
water reservoirs, police and fire stations or other governmental uses of the
county.
      (5)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including
classification yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities.
      (6)   Single-family dwellings, frame construction only.
      (7)   Temporary produce stands for the sale of agricultural produce
raised on the premises, provided that adequate off-street parking is available
and that traffic congestion or hazard would not be created in conjunction with
the location or access thereto.
      (8)   Major utility transmission facilities.
      (9)   Modular building unit to be used as a permanent residence, provided
it meets the requirements of the county building code for placement in the
county. These are to be only modular homes that have received prior approval of
the Building and Zoning Committee and are on file in the office of the Building
Department.
      (10)   T.V. disks.
      (11)   Telecommunication facility not to exceed 200 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099)
      (12)   All land used for agricultural purposes that includes the growing
of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry, apiculture,
nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and wholesale
greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal activity
on the land. Permitted only on non-urban tracts of land five acres or greater
in size.
   (D)    Special uses. (See §
93.162,
93.178)
      (1)   Animal feed, storage, preparation, grinding and mixing - wholesale
and retail.
      (2)   Blacksmith or welding shop.
      (3)   Cemeteries, including crematories and mausoleums in conjunction
therewith.
      (4)   Churches, rectories and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (5)   Explosives of any kind.
      (6)   Fertilizer sales and storage.
      (7)   Golf courses, regulation size, but not including “par 3" golf
courses; commercially operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses; and
provided that no club house or accessory building shall be located nearer than
500 feet to any dwelling on another lot.
      (8)   Gun clubs, with or without indoor or outdoor ranges, if located not
nearer than 1,000 feet to any residence other than that of the owner or lessee
of the site. This includes facilities offering and providing conceal and carry
lessons and firearms safety classes.
      (9)   Kennels, pet grooming, and pet training.
      (10)   Mining, loading and hauling of sand, gravel, topsoil or other
aggregate or minerals, including equipment, building or structures for
screening, crushing, mixing, washing or storage provided that:
         (a)   No open pit or shaft is less than 500 feet from an existing
residence or Residence District established by this zoning code; and
         (b)   All buildings or structure used for screening, crushing,
washing, mixing, or storage are located not less than 1,000 feet from an
existing residence or any Residence district established by this zoning code.
      (11)   Mobile homes in compliance with §
93.101.
      (12)   Overnight campgrounds.
      (13)   Planned Unit Development, limited to the density and permitted
uses of the district.
      (14)   Private clubs or lodges, except those the chief activity of which
is a service customarily carried on as a business.
      (15)   Private recreational areas or camps.
      (16)   Public service uses.
      (17)   Rest homes, nursing homes, hospitals, and sanitariums,
institutions for the aged and for children. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089)
      (18)   Sales yards, wholesale or retail for agricultural products
including, but not necessarily limited to, fruits, vegetables, flowers, plants,
and the like.
      (19)   Sanitary and natural material landfills to include any combustible
or noncombustible materials.
      (20)   Seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious
institutions, including dormitories and other accessory uses required for
operation.
      (21)   Travel trailer parks.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051, §
93.052). Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land, including the following:
      (1)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front yard at least 30
feet back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or
trailer stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side
property line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied and
parked in an orderly and organized fashion.
      (2)   Construction: Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings
for sale or rental offices or show houses for use during construction
operations; provided all other regulations of the district are complied with,
but in no case shall the office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year.
      (3)   Horse: Keeping of horses for private purposes only and not for rent
or hire on a zoning lot whose principal use is intended to be a one-family
dwelling provided that: At least one acre is allocated for each animal; that
all buildings for housing such animals shall be subject to all requirements for
accessory buildings; that these buildings are located at least 100 feet from
the nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot, or 50 feet from the
nearest side lot line whichever is greater.
      (4)   Pets: The keeping of not more than three domesticated animals over
the age of four months on the premises.
      (5)   Private: Tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts, green
houses, patios, swimming pools.
      (6)   Servants' accommodations for professional servants, caretakers,
watchmen or custodians, but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on
the same lot.
      (7)   Vegetable gardens.
      (8)   Permitted signs.
      (9)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
      (10)   Solar panels.
      (11)   Agricultural uses on non-urban tracts of land, where the principal
use on the property is intended to be a single-family dwelling. Provided the
use is operated with sound agricultural practices and does not create nuisance,
not more than one livestock, including horses (kept for private purposes only,
not for paid lessons, rent, or hire), cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, or similar
animals, is allowed per acre and not more than six fowl, including chickens,
ducks, or similar animals, are allowed per acre on lots less than two acres.
Not more than ten fowl, including chickens, ducks, or similar animals, are
allowed per acre on land with two or more acres. When farm animals are
maintained on the property, all buildings for housing these animals shall be
subject to all requirements for accessory buildings in the district and must be
located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing principal building on an
adjacent lot or 50 feet from the nearest lot line, whichever is greater. All
grazing areas must be fenced in accordance with this code. Any lawfully allowed
animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall be enclosed within a pen at all times
so that the animal will not become free roaming. Animals, consistent with the
animal husbandry practices of the day, shall be provided shelter so as to be
protected from adverse weather. Also consistent with then current animal
husbandry practices, animals shall be provided with food and water. Premises
upon which animals are kept, including areas of feed storage, shall be kept in
a clean and healthy manner so as to not attract unwanted creatures and to not
become a nuisance.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Junk yards.
      (2)   Manufacturing.
      (3)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted.
   (5)   Railroad freight cars.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 R-1 THROUGH R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Single-Family Residence Districts as differentiated herein and
the district locations as depicted on the zone district map reflect the wide
variety of physical and social characteristics found in the county to the
extent that the range of such conditions and characteristics can be divided
into meaningful categories. It is the purpose of these regulations to encourage
the creation and maintenance of stable and enduring residential areas by
establishing limitations on the use and character of development so as to take
advantage of, or to avoid conflict with, natural topography, existing
development, arrangements and locations of existing or planned community
facilities and social needs.
      (2)   Districts R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 are intended to be exclusive
single-family districts and to meet the needs of those persons wishing single-
family housing and the environment associated with such housing.
      (3)   Any permitted non-residential use listed herein, other than a
public service use, shall only be permitted on a tract of land at least two
acres in size.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than 40,000
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 150
feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the buildings,
structures, or enlargement.
      (3)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 40 feet shall be
provided.
      (4)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 25 feet, except where a side yard adjoins a street the minimum width of
the yard shall be increased to 40 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 40 feet shall be provided.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 15% of the area of a zoning lot may be
covered by buildings or structures, including accessory buildings.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio. The floor area ratio between gross floor
area and zoning lot shall not exceed 0.3. The maximum floor area of accessory
structures shall be no greater than two times the first-level floor area of the
primary structure.
      (8)   Dwelling standards. Single-family dwellings shall have a total
floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each dwelling unit, measured
from the outside walls, including utility rooms but excluding all other areas
not used for living or sleeping purposes.
      (9)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Sewers  §
        93.061
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (C)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than 15,000
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 100
feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the buildings,
structures, or enlargements.
      (3)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 40 feet shall be
provided.
      (4)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the width of the lot at the building line except where a side yard
adjoins a street, the minimum width of the yard shall be increased to 40 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 40 feet shall be provided.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 30% of the area of a zoning lot may be
covered by buildings or structures, including accessory buildings.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed
0.5. The maximum floor area of accessory structures shall be no greater than
two times the first-level floor area of the primary structure.
      (8)   Dwelling standards. Single-family dwellings shall have a total
floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each dwelling unit, measured
from the outside walls, including utility rooms but excluding all other areas
not used for living or sleeping purposes.
      (9)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Sewers  §
        93.061
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (D)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than 9,000
square feet, and a width at the established building line of not less than 70
feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the buildings,
structures or enlargement.
      (3)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 25 feet shall be
provided.
      (4)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the width of the lot at the building line except that a minimum
width of ten feet on one side will be provided for rear access unless rear
access is provided by another method. Where a side yard adjoins a street, the
minimum width of the yard shall be not less than 25 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 30 feet shall be provided.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 35% of the area of a zoning lot may be
occupied by buildings or structures, including accessory buildings.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed
0.5. The maximum floor area of accessory structures shall be no greater than
two times the first-level floor area of the primary structure.
      (8)   Dwelling standards. Single-family dwellings shall have a total
floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each dwelling unit, measured
from the outside walls, including utility rooms but excluding all other areas
not used for living or sleeping purposes.
      (9)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Sewers  §
        93.061
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (E)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected
shall be located on tract of land having an area of not less than 6,000 square
feet, and a width at the established building line of not less than 50 feet.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the building,
structure, or enlargement.
      (3)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 25 feet shall be
provided.
      (4)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width at the building line except that a minimum of ten
feet on one side will be provided for rear access unless rear access is
provided by another method. Where a side yard adjoins the street, the minimum
of this yard shall be no less than 25 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 25 feet shall be provided.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 50% of the area of the zoning lot may
be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed
0.5. The maximum floor area of accessory structures shall be no greater than
two times the first-level floor area of the primary structure.
      (8)   Dwelling standards. Single-family dwellings shall have a total
floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each dwelling unit, measured
from the outside walls, including utility rooms but excluding all other areas
not used for living or sleeping purposes.
      (9)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Sewers  §
        93.061
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (F)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Churches, rectories, and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (2)   Golf courses of regulation size but not including “par 3" golf
courses; and provided that no clubhouse, parking lot, or accessory building
shall be located nearer than 500 feet to any dwelling unit or other zoning lot.
      (3)   Governmental uses, facilities, and buildings of the county.
      (4)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicity
owned.
      (5)   Single-family dwelling, frame construction only.
      (6)   Modular building unit to be used as a permanent residence, provided
it meets all of the requirements of the county building code for placement.
These are to be only modular homes that have received prior approval of the
Building and Zoning Committee, and are on file in the office of the Building
Department.
      (7)   Schools: Public, denominational, or private, elementary and high,
including playgrounds, garages for school buses, and athletic fields auxiliary
thereto.
      (8)   T. V. disks.
      (9)   Telecommunication facility not exceeding 75 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099).
      (10)   All land used for agricultural purposes, which includes the
growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, farm animal and poultry husbandry,
beekeeping, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land.
      (11)   (a)   Private lakes and ponds, or other bodies of water and
clubhouses, provided that no, building, parking lot, or other intense use
activity is located nearer than 250 feet to any dwelling on another zoning lot.
Any private lake, pond, or other body of water must also be a minimum of 250
feet from any dwelling on an adjacent zoning lot that does not have use
privileges to the lake or pond.
         (b)   Should a pond be located within 250 feet of any dwelling on
another zoning lot a variance shall be required. In addition, the pond shall
meet requirements for the construction of retention basins as per the county
stormwater ordinance, including but not limited to, review and approval by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (12)   Up to 12 chickens (hens only) on properties that are one acre in
size or greater. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall
be enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become free
roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day,
shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
   (G)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162  and
93.178 ).
      (1)   Any dwelling unit less than 620 square feet.
      (2)   Cemeteries and mausoleums in conjunction therewith.
      (3)   Day care or nursery schools.
      (4)   Private parking lots.
      (5)   Governmental uses other than the county.
      (6)   Type “B” home occupations in accordance with §
93.083.
      (7)   Hospital, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes, and institutions
for children and the aged. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089)
      (8)   Landfill, but sanitary landfills not permitted.
      (9)   Mobile home in compliance with §
93.101.
      (10)   [Reserved].
      (11)   Private recreational areas or camps, when not operated for profit.
      (12)   Public libraries, playgrounds, parks, recreational community
centers or grounds.
      (13)   Planned Unit Development, restricted to the density and permitted
uses of the district subject to §§
93.162 and
93.178.
      (14)   Sewage facilities.
      (15)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities, plants and pumping stations.
      (16)   Beekeeping. Keeping of not more than three colonies of domestic
honeybees for private purposes only on a zoning lot whose principal use is
intended to be a single-family dwelling, provided that the beekeeping is done
in compliance with supplemental regulations found in §
93.100.
      (17)   Bed and breakfast inn (R-1 Only). (See §
93.060).
      (18)   Keeping of up to six chickens (hens only) on properties less than
an acre in size, and up to two goats for private purposes only on a zoning lot
whose principal use is intended to be a single- family dwelling, provided that
the keeping of these animals is done in compliance with supplemental
regulations found in §
93.100. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall be
enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become free
roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day,
shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
      (19)   Community solar (R-1 only) (see §
93.106).
   (H)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051, §
93.052). Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land, including the following:
      (1)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front yard at least 30
feet back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or
trailer stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side
property line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied and
parked in an orderly and organized fashion.
      (2)   Construction: Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings
for sale of rental offices or show houses for use during construction
operations; provided all other regulations of the district are complied with,
but in no case shall the office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year.
      (3)   Horses: Keeping of horses for private purposes only and not for
rent or hire on a zoning lot less than five acres in size whose principal use
is intended to be a single-family dwelling provided that: At least one acre is
allocated for each animal; that no more than two horses are permitted; that all
buildings for housing such animals shall be subject to all requirements for
accessory buildings; that these buildings are located at least 100 feet from
the nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot, or 50 feet from the
nearest side lot line whichever is greater. Any lawfully allowed animals,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be enclosed within a pen at all times so that
the animal will not become free roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal
husbandry practices of the day, shall be provided shelter so as to be protected
from adverse weather. Also consistent with then current animal husbandry
practices, animals shall be provided with food and water. Premises upon which
animals are kept, including areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and
healthy manner so as to not attract unwanted creatures and to not become a
nuisance.
      (4)   Pets: The keeping of not more than three domesticated animals over
the age of four months on the premises.
      (5)   Private: Tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts, patios,
swimming pools.
      (6)   Servants' accommodations for professional servants, caretakers,
watchmen or custodians, but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on
the same lot.
      (7)   Vegetable gardens.
      (8)   Permitted signs.
      (9)   Type “A” home occupations in accordance with §
93.083.
      (10)   Vehicle repair, hobby or personal (see §
93.081).
      (11)   Solar panels.
      (12)   Agricultural uses on non-urban tracts of land zoned R-1, R-2, R-
3 and R-4at least five acres in size, where the principal use on the property
is intended to be a single-family dwelling. Provided the use is operated with
sound agricultural practices and does not create nuisance, not more than one
livestock, including horses (kept for private purposes only, not for paid
lessons, rent, or hire), cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, or similar animals, is
allowed per acre and not more than 12 fowl, including chickens, ducks, or
similar animals, are allowed per acre. When farm animals are maintained on the
property, all buildings for housing these animals shall be subject to all
requirements for accessory buildings in the district and must be located at
least 100 feet from the nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot
or 50 feet from the nearest lot line, whichever is greater. All grazing areas
must be fenced. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall
be enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become free
roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day,
shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
      (13)   Private greenhouses accessory to single-family dwellings.
   (I)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Junk yards.
      (2)   Manufacturing.
      (3)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Railroad freight cars.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2014-15,
passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-
2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
93.999.
§ 93.026 R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The R-5 Multiple-Family Residence District and the district
locations as shown on the zone district map, reflect physical and social
characteristics found in the county. It is the purpose of this district to
encourage the creation and maintenance of stable and enduring multiple
residence districts by establishing limitations on the use, character, and
density of development of land so as to take advantage of, or to avoid conflict
with, natural topography, existing development, arrangement and location of
existing or planned community facilities, and the social needs of the county.
This district may also be utilized for the appropriate use of redevelopment
areas where obsolescence and socioeconomic demands would suggest higher
densities as necessary to encourage the reuse of these areas.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. All dwellings hereafter erected shall be located on a lot
having an area of not less than 6,000 square feet and a width at the
established building line of not less than 40 feet. Any single-family dwelling
located on an "R-5" lot shall meet the setbacks and yard requirements of the R-
4 Single-Family Residential District.
      (2)   Minimum square footage of lot area. Every multiple dwelling
structure in this district shall require a minimum of 2,000 square feet of lot
area per dwelling unit.
      (3)   Higher densities than permitted. Applicants seeking higher
densities than permitted in division (2) above are referred to §§
93.028 and
93.034.
      (4)   Approved water and sanitary sewer system. All uses permitted in
this district shall be served by an approved water and sanitary sewer system.
Individual well or septic tanks shall not be permitted in the interest of the
public health.
      (5)   Yard areas. No multiple-family dwelling shall be erected or
enlarged unless the following yards are provided and maintained.
      (6)   Front yard. On every zoning lot a front yard shall be provided of
not less than 25 feet. For buildings exceeding 25 feet in height the minimum
front yard shall be increased by one foot for each two feet fraction thereof by
which the building height exceeds 25 feet, but in no case shall a front yard be
required of more than 40 feet.
      (7)   Side yard. For multiple-family dwelling units, the side yard on
each side of the main building shall be a minimum of ten feet in width plus and
additional two feet in width for each additional story above two stories in
height. On corner lots, the side yard adjacent to the street must meet the
front yard setback requirement.
      (8)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 25 feet.
      (9)   Lot coverage. Not more than 40% of the area of a lot may be covered
by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
      (10)   Maximum floor area ratio. The maximum floor area ratio shall not
exceed 1.0.
      (11)   Dwelling standards. One and two family dwelling structures shall
have a total floor area of not less than 620 square feet for each dwelling
unit, measured from the outside walls, including utility rooms but excluding
all other areas not used for living or sleeping purposes.
      (12)   Total floor area. Multiple-family dwelling structures shall have a
total floor area of not less than 540 square feet for each dwelling unit,
measured from the outside walls, including all other areas not used for living
or sleeping purposes.
      (13)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Churches, rectories, and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (2)   Condominiums.
      (3)   [Reserved].
      (4)   Garden apartments.
      (5)   Golf courses of regulation size only, provided that no clubhouse,
parking lot, or accessory building shall be located nearer than 500 feet to any
dwelling unit or other zoning lot.
      (6)   Governmental uses, facilities and buildings of the county.
      (7)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (8)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly owned
and operated.
      (9)   [Reserved].
      (10)   Single-family dwelling, frame construction only.
      (11)   Schools: Public, denominational or private, elementary and high,
including playgrounds, garages for school buses, and athletic fields auxiliary
thereto.
      (12)   All land used for agricultural purposes, which includes the
growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry,
apiculture, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land. Permitted only on non-urban tracts of land five acres or
greater in size. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall
be enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become free
roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day,
shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
      (13)   T. V. disks.
      (14)   Telecommunication facility not exceeding 75 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099).
      (15)   Vehicle repair, hobby or personal. (See §
93.081).
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162,
93.178).
      (1)   Barber shops.
      (2)   Beauty shops.
      (3)   Boarding and rooming houses.
      (4)   Day care or nursery schools.
      (5)   Dormitories or similar uses.
      (6)   Governmental uses other than the county.
      (7)   Type “B” home occupations in accordance with §
93.083.
      (8)   Hospitals and sanitariums and institutions for children and the
aged.
      (9)   Landfill, but sanitary landfills not permitted.
      (10)   Medical and dental offices, but not including any retail drug
sales.
      (11)   Mobile home in compliance with §
93.101.
      (12)   Orphanages.
      (13)   Planned Unit Developments-limited to the densities and permitted
uses of the district, §§
93.162 and
93.178.
      (14)   Private parking lots.
      (15)   Private recreational areas or camps when not operated for profit.
      (16)   Public libraries, recreational or community centers or grounds.
      (17)   Rest homes, nursing homes, sanitariums, hospitals. (See §§
93.084 and 93.089)
      (18)   Sewage facilities.
      (19)   Telephone booths.
      (20)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities, plants and pumping stations.
   (E)    Accessory uses. (See §
93.051, 93.052). Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
      (1)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front yard at least 30
feet back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or
trailer stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side
property line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied and
parked in an orderly and organized fashion.
      (2)   Construction: Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings
for sale of rental offices or show houses for use during construction
operations; provided all other regulations of the district are complied with,
but in no case shall the office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year.
      (3)   Horse: Keeping of horses for private purposes only and not for rent
or hire on a zoning lot less than five acres in size whose principal use is
intended to be a single-family dwelling provided that: at least one acre is
allocated for each animal; that no more than two horses are permitted; that all
buildings for housing such animals shall be subject to all requirements for
accessory buildings; that these buildings are located at least 100 feet from
the nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot, or 50 feet from the
nearest side lot line whichever is greater. Any lawfully allowed animals,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be enclosed within a pen at all times so that
the animal will not become free roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal
husbandry practices of the day, shall be provided shelter so as to be protected
from adverse weather. Also consistent with then current animal husbandry
practices, animals shall be provided with food and water. Premises upon which
animals are kept, including areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and
healthy manner so as to not attract unwanted creatures and to not become a
nuisance.
      (4)   Pets: The keeping of not more than three domesticated animals over
the age of four months on the premises.
      (5)   Private: Tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts, patios,
swimming pools.
      (6)    Servants’ accommodations for professional servants, caretakers,
watchmen or custodians, but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on
the same lot.
      (7)   Vegetable gardens.
      (8)   Permitted signs.
      (9)   Type “A” home occupations in accordance with §
93.083.
      (10)   Agricultural uses on non-urban tracts of land zoned R-5 at least
five acres in size, where the principal use on the property is intended to be a
single-family dwelling. Provided the use is operated with sound agricultural
practices and does not create nuisance, not more than one livestock, including
horses (kept for private purposes only, not for paid lessons, rent, or hire),
cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, or similar animals, is allowed per acre and not
more than 12 fowl, including chickens, ducks, or similar animals, are allowed
per acre. When farm animals are maintained on the property, all buildings for
housing these animals shall be subject to all requirements for accessory
buildings in the district and must be located at least 100 feet from the
nearest existing principal building on an adjacent lot or 50 feet from the
nearest lot line, whichever is greater. All grazing areas must be fenced. Any
lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall be enclosed within a
pen at all times so that the animal will not become free roaming. Animals,
consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day, shall be provided
shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also consistent with then
current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be provided with food and
water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including areas of feed storage,
shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not attract unwanted
creatures and to not become a nuisance.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Junk yards.
      (2)   Manufacturing.
      (3)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Railroad freight cars.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.027 R-6 MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The R-6 Mobile Home Park District is created to meet the
needs of many persons utilizing single family dwellings and mobile homes as
dwelling units and to provide for special uses such as mobile home parks and
courts. In this district, single-family dwellings and mobile homes are
permitted. Mobile homes, single-family dwellings, mobile home module, mobile
home parks and mobile home courts are permitted uses only in the “R-6”
District. Prior to issuance of any building permit for a mobile home or single-
family dwelling, the application must be reviewed by the Building and Zoning
Department to insure that the mobile home or single-family dwelling conforms to
county building, plumbing and electrical standards.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Lot size. Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter erected
shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not less than 6,000
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 50
feet. A permitted nonresidential principal use of a building other than a
public service use shall be located on a tract of land having an area of not
less than two acres.
      (2)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such buildings,
structures or enlargements.
      (3)   Front yard. A front yard of not less than 25 feet shall be
provided.
      (4)   Side yard. A side yard on each side of the zoning lot of not less
than 10% of the lot width at the building line except that a minimum of ten
feet on one side for rear access unless rear access is provided by an alley
way. Where a side yard adjoins a street, the minimum width of the yard shall be
no less than 25 feet.
      (5)   Rear yard. A rear yard of not less than 25 feet shall be provided.
      (6)   Lot coverage. Not more than 50% of the area of the zoning lot may
be occupied by buildings and structures, including accessory buildings.
      (7)   Maximum floor area ratio. The floor area ratio shall not exceed
0.5.
      (8)   Dwelling standards. Dwelling units shall have a total floor area of
not less than 900 square feet measured from the outside walls, including
utility rooms but excluding all other areas not used for living or sleeping
purposes.
      (9)   Building standards. Within this district when a mobile home or
single-family dwelling is to be placed on a lot, a building permit must be
obtained from the Building Department. Within this district, it shall be
considered that these are permanent type structures, if they are to be located
more than 30 days and are to be known as same. Following is a list of the
building requirements that shall be required in the placement of any mobile
home or single-family dwelling. Prior to the issuance of any building permits
for the development, the applicant must have the required zoning needed for the
development and make application to the Building and Zoning Department of the
county, for their approval. In conjunction with this, the applicant must make
application to the State of Illinois, Department of Public Health for a permit.
No permit shall be issued until such time as the Building and Zoning Department
has submitted, in writing, their approval.
         (a)   Foundations and footings.
            1.   Footings must be placed on level, firm, undisturbed soil or
compacted or controlled fill that is free of grass and organic materials,
compacted to a minimum load bearing capacity of 2,000 pounds per square foot.
Pre-owned homes for which the manufacturer of the home is no longer in business
or for which the installation instructions are not available may be placed on
an existing footing system if the system meets the requirements of this
section.
            2.   Foundations and footings may consist of the following:
               a.   Individual pier footings consisting of precast or poured-
in-place individual pier footing concrete at least three and one-half inches
thick with a 28-day compressive strength of 3,000 pounds per square inch.
               b.   Concrete runners a minimum of four inches thick under each
I-beam or perpendicular to the I-beams at no more than eight- foot intervals.
               c.   Concrete pads a minimum of four inches thick the
approximate dimension of the home.
               d.   Pressure treated wood having a 0.60 retention in accordance
with the AWPA C22-03 Standard.
               e.   Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) footing pads in
accordance with pad manufacturer installation instructions and listed for the
required load capacity and type of installation. Support devices and piers must
not overlap the footings.
               f.   A support system approved by a licensed professional
engineer.
         (b)   Skirting and tie downs.
            1.   Mobile homes must have a skirting of a fire resistant material
and have at least two inspection doors.
            2.   Tie downs shall consist of at least one anchor at each corner
of the pad and the mobile home, and this will tie the mobile home to the pad.
            3.   This shall apply to the placement of the first mobile home, on
the lot, within the mobile home park. Any subsequent mobile home moved onto the
lot, shall require an inspection by the Building and Zoning Department.
         (c)   Sewage disposal requirements.
            1.   A mobile home in a mobile home court is required to be on a
sewage disposal system, such as a package treatment plant or another acceptable
method.
            2.   R-6 single-family dwellings can be on an individual septic
system and the size of the tank and the lateral lines will be figured as the
same as a residential dwelling. (Contained in §§
93.060 through
93.063).
            3.   New mobile homes located within an existing mobile home park
may utilized a private sewage system so long as the Illinois Private Sewage
Code and the county private sewage codes are satisfied.
         (d)   Electrical requirements.
            1.   Any mobile home in a mobile home park shall have a minimum of
100-amp service.
            2.   An R-6 single-family dwelling shall have a minimum of 100-amp
service.
         (e)   Off-street parking and patio pad requirements.
            1.   In a mobile home park, off-street parking shall be provided
for at least one car within the lot of the mobile home. This shall be a minimum
size pad of ten by 20 feet and shall be of poured concrete at least four inches
thick. This shall be connected to a patio pad that will join to the mobile home
pad to make a walkway and easy access to each other. This patio pad shall be of
poured concrete at least four inches thick. Additional off-street parking or
on-the-street parking can be provided, and should be in conformance with
requirements of the county building code.
            2.   R-6 single-family dwellings shall be situated with the same
requirements as a conventional residence.
         (f)   Final inspections.
            1.   A final inspection shall be made on a mobile home park upon
its completion and approval of the electrical service and the placement of the
initial mobile home on an approved foundation.
            2.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the mobile home
or renter or lessee of the mobile home within the mobile home park for the
upkeep of the mobile home and the foundation on which it is placed. Failure on
the part of the above-named individual to comply with this shall result in a
citation of a violation being issued to the owner of the park or operator of
same.
            3.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of the
mobile home park to notify the owner of the mobile home, renter, or lessee of
the pad, of his or her responsibility so far as this chapter, building
regulations, Chapter 90, and the license and investigation department ordinance
is concerned. Failure on his or her part to accomplish this will result in a
citation of a violation being issued to the owner of the park or operator of
same.
            4.    An R-6 single-family dwelling shall have the same sequence of
inspections as required for a conventional type residence. These are outlined
within the building permit application forms.
            5.   A certificate of occupancy must be issued to the lot or piece
of property in question, prior to its usage.
         (g)   Additional requirements. In addition to the requirements of the
county zoning code and building code, any development of a mobile home park
shall meet the requirements of the County License and Investigation Department
and the State Department of Public Health. Each home shall meet the
requirements of the United States of America Standards Institute/A119-1, as
periodically revised.
         (h)   Plans and specifications required. Prior to the placement of an
R-6 single family dwelling within the county, a set of plans and specifications
from the manufacturer will be required and it must meet the requirements of
this Zoning Code for the placement of an R-6 single-family dwelling.
         (i)   Building and Zoning Committee. Specifications for R-6 single-
family dwelling shall be as prescribed by the Building and Zoning Committee of
the County Board.
         (j)   Accessory buildings or storage buildings.
            1.    This type of construction shall be permitted within a mobile
home park and will have to comply with the requirements of the building code,
and the necessary permits shall be obtained. Before erection of these
structures within a mobile home park, a building permit must be obtained and
the necessary inspections made. These structures shall be of a temporary nature
and not a permanent type structure. Any structure less than 200 square feet
does not require a building permit from the Building Department, but does
require a permit from the License and Investigation department.
            2.   Within an R-6 single-family dwelling subdivision these
accessory buildings or storage buildings will be treated the same as
residential subdivision.
            3.   Nothing contained within this zoning code shall in any manner
supersede any prior building or zoning requirements concerning modular homes.
      (10)   License renewal. All mobile home parks within unincorporated
Madison County shall be obtain a mobile home park license approved by the
Public Safety Committee as per §
91.021 of the county mobile home park code.
      (11)   Park rules. All mobile home parks shall provide a copy of the park
rules to the Building and Zoning Department.
      (12)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Fences  §
        93.080
Parking §
        93.147
Sewers  §
        93.061
Signs   §
        93.118
Slope   §
        93.063
 
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Churches, rectories and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (2)   Golf courses of regulation size but not including “par 3" golf
courses; and provided that no clubhouse, parking lot, or accessory building
shall be located nearer than 500 feet to any dwelling unit or other zoning lot.
      (3)   Governmental uses, facilities and buildings of the county.
      (4)   Mobile homes on a permanent foundation in compliance with §
93.101.
      (5)   R-6 single-family dwelling to be used as a permanent residence,
provided it meets the requirements of the county building code placement in the
county. These are to be only R-6 single-family dwellings that have received
prior approval of the Building and Zoning Committee and are on file in the
office of the Building Department.
      (6)   Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas, when publicly owned
and operated.
      (7)   Single-family dwelling.
      (8)   Schools: Public, denominational, or private, elementary and high,
including playgrounds, garages for school buses and athletic fields auxiliary
thereto.
      (9)   T.V. disks.
      (10)   Telecommunication facility not exceeding 75 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099).
      (11)   All land used for agricultural purposes, which includes the
growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry,
apiculture, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land. Permitted only on non-urban tracts of land five acres or
greater in size. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter, shall
be enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become free
roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day,
shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
      (12)   Modular homes.
      (13)   Mobile home parks.
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178)
      (1)   Barber shops.
      (2)   Beauty shops.
      (3)   Cemeteries and mausoleums in conjunction therewith.
      (4)   Day care or nursery schools.
      (5)   Governmental uses other than the county.
      (6)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes, and institutions
for children and the aged. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089)
      (7)   Landfill, but sanitary landfills not permitted.
      (8)   Medical and dental offices, but not including any retail drug
sales.
      (9)   Mobile home parks and courts.
      (10)   Planned Unit Developments, restricted to the density and permitted
uses of the district subject to §§
93.162 and
93.178.
      (11)   Private greenhouses accessory to single-family houses.
      (12)   Private parking lots.
      (13)   Private recreational areas or camps, when not operated for profit.
      (14)   Public libraries, playgrounds, parks, recreational, community
centers, or grounds.
      (15)   Sewage facilities.
      (16)   Telephone booths.
      (17)   Utilities. Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities, plants and pumping stations.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051, §
93.052)
      (1)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land.
      (2)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers. and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front yard at least 30
feet back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or
trailer stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side
property line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied and
parked in an orderly and organized fashion.
      (3)   Construction: Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings
for sale or rental offices or show houses for use during construction
operations; provided all other regulations of the district are complied with,
but in no case shall the office be continued beyond the duration of
construction of the project or one year.
      (4)   Pets: The keeping of not more than three domesticated animals over
the age of four months on the premises.
      (5)   Private: Tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts, patios,
swimming pools.
      (6)   Servants' accommodations for professional servants, caretakers,
watchmen or custodians, but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on
the same lot.
      (7)   Vegetable gardens.
      (8)   Permitted signs.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Junk yards.
      (2)   Manufacturing.
      (3)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Railroad freight cars.
2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed
3-5-2024)
§ 93.028 R-7 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The purpose of this zoning district is to provide areas
suitable for planned residential developments. Areas having access to or
providing urban services, utilities and public improvements contain potentially
significant site planning advantages for planned residential developments. It
is the intent of this zone district to maximize the public welfare through the
design review of sites especially favorable for planned residential
development. This zoning district provides an alternate zoning method to
development design, increases the flexibility of solving common development
problems and provides for a design review to potentially enhance the aesthetic
quality, consumer benefits, and marketability of residential developments and
to reduce the capital  investment necessary for development, utilities, public
improvements and subsequent maintenance costs. Planned residential developments
in this district shall comply with all applicable procedures and conditions of
§§
93.162 and
93.178.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any residential use permitted in the R-1 through R-
5 Districts.
   (C)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178) Any special use in the R zoning districts.
   (D)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051, §
93.052) Any accessory use permitted in the R zoning districts or an accessory
use clearly supplementary to the principal use of the parcel or lot.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Junk yards.
      (2)   Manufacturing.
      (3)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Railroad freight cars.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.029 B-1 LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. This business district is intended to provide areas suitable
for a broad range of business activities and makes provision for areas within
the district for the establishment of compatible retail office and pedestrian
highway retail office and pedestrian highway retail services. The intent of the
district is inclusive of a desire to facilitate the location decisions of a
variety of business activities while protecting the economic condition of
existing areas contributing to the stability of the county. To achieve the
intent of the district, great care should be exercised in zoning any parcel to
the B-1 District to insure its compatibility with adjacent or existing business
activities in the county.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Dwelling units, lodging rooms; not permitted below second floor.
Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second floors
except for the business owner or operator of a motel, hotel or similar use.
      (2)   Sale of foodstuffs, etc; conducted within enclosed building. The
sale of foodstuffs or articles intended for human consumption shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
      (3)   Incidental and essential to retail business. There shall be no
manufacture, processing or treatment of products other than those, which are
clearly incidental end essential to the retail business conducted on the same
premises.
      (4)   Limited to five persons. Not more than five persons (exclusive of
manager, clerks, and drivers) shall be engaged in the manufacture, processing
or treatment of products.
      (5)   Nuisances not permitted. Such uses, operations or products shall
not cause objectionable odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar
nuisances.
      (6)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the building.
      (7)   Front yard. There shall be provided on every lot a front yard not
less than 50 feet in depth, except that when existing buildings located in this
district have already established a building line at a depth less than required
above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line
      (8)   Side yard. A side yard of a minimum of ten feet shall be provided
      (9)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet,
however, an accessory building may be located thereon, except for the five feet
adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley line, for the storage of
motor vehicles and the unloading and loading of vehicles under roof.
      (10)   Maximum floor area ratio and coverage. The floor area ratio shall
not exceed 1.2 and not more than 60% of a zoning lot shall be covered by a
building or buildings.
      (11)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Loading Area §
             93.148
Parking      §
             93.147
Signs        §
             93.119
 
      (12)   Buffer area. When abutting a residential district or lot, a six
foot tall sight-proof fence or ten foot tall landscaped screen shall be
provided. Such landscaped screen shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least
five feet in height when planted and shall be maintained at not less than ten
feet in height when fully grown. Other forms of screening shall be as approved
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following retail business and service uses are
permitted, provided they are operated entirely within a building, except for
off-street parking and loading facilities.
      (1)   Air conditioning and heating sales and service.
      (2)   Antique shops.
      (3)   Art and school supply stores.
      (4)   Art galleries and studios.
      (5)   Auto parts store.
      (6)   Bakery shops, including the baking and processing of food products,
when prepared for retail use on the premises only.
      (7)   Banks and financial institutions.
      (8)   Barber shops, beauty parlors, chiropody, massage therapist or
similar personal service shops.
      (9)   Book and stationery stores.
      (10)   Bicycle sales and repair.
      (11)   Candy and ice cream shops.
      (12)   Camera and photographic supply shops for retail sale.
      (13)   Carpet, rug and linoleum stores.
      (14)   China and glassware stores.
      (15)   Coin and philatelic stores.
      (16)   Currency exchanges.
      (17)   Cutting of glass, mirror and glazing.
      (18)   Custom dressmaking, costume rental, millinery, tailoring, or shoe
repair shops, when conducted for retail sale on the premises only.
      (19)   Department stores.
      (20)   Dry goods stores.
      (21)   Drug stores.
      (22)   Dry cleaning and pressing establishments, retail.
      (23)   Electrical appliance stores and repairs, but not including
appliance assembly or manufacturing.
      (24)   Employment agency.
      (25)   Financial services.
      (26)   Florist shops and conservatories for retail trade on the premises.
      (27)   Food, meat and fruit stores.
      (28)   Frozen food stores and food lockers.
      (29)   Furniture store, and upholstery when conducted as a part of the
retail operations and secondary to the main use.
      (30)   Furrier, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
      (31)   Gift shops.
      (32)    Hardware stores.
      (33)   Haberdasheries.
      (34)   Hobby stores.
      (35)   Household appliance stores and repairs.
      (36)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of
draperies, slip covers and other similar articles, when conducted as a part of
the retail operations and secondary to the main use.
      (37)   Jewelry and watch repair shops.
      (38)   Laundries, automatic self-service types, or hand.
      (39)   Leather goods and luggage stores.
      (40)   Locksmith.
      (41)   Millinery shops.
      (42)   Modular building units for office commercial use, provided they
meet the requirements of the county building code for placement in the county.
These are to be only modular building units that have received prior approval
of the Building and Zoning Committee and are on file in the office of the
Building Department.
      (43)   Musical instrument sales and repair, retail trade only.
      (44)   Newsstands.
      (45)   Offices, business and professional, including medical clinics.
      (46)   Optician, optometrist.
      (47)   Orthopedic and medical appliance store, but not including the
assembly or manufacture of such articles.
      (48)   Package liquor stores.
      (49)   Paint and wallpaper stores.
      (50)   Pet shops, pet grooming, and pet training, but not including
animal hospitals.
      (51)   Photography studios, including the development of film and
pictures when done as a part of the retail business on the premises.
      (52)   Plumbing and heating showroom and shop.
      (53)   Picture framing, when conducted for retail trade on the premises
only.
      (54)   Photo developing and processing.
      (55)   Postal substations.
      (56)   Public utility collection office.
      (57)   [Reserved].
      (58)   Savings and loan associations.
      (59)   Sewing machine sales and service.
      (60)   Shoe and hat stores, and repairing when done as a part of the
retail business.
      (61)   Signs, as regulated by §
93.118.
      (62)   Sporting goods stores.
      (63)   Theater, indoor.
      (64)   Telephone booths, public.
      (65)   Tobacco shops.
      (66)   Toy stores.
      (67)   Travel bureau and transportation ticket office.
      (68)   T.V. disks.
      (69)   Wearing apparel shops.
      (70)   Prehistoric stone artifacts, their restoration and related
activities.
      (71)   Large transport trailer. (See §
93.097).
      (72)   Telecommunication facility not to exceed 200 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099).
      (73)   All land used for agricultural purposes, which includes the
growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry,
apiculture, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter,
shall be enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become
free roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the
day, shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
      (74)   Flea markets.
      (75)   Coffee, juice, tea, and smoothie shops.
      (76)   Prefabricated accessory structure sales on an open lot or within a
building.
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (1)   Automobile service and repair stations but excluding auto body
repair and painting.
      (2)   Eating and drinking establishments.
      (3)   Churches, rectories and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (4)   Clubs or lodges (nonprofit), fraternal or religious institutions.
      (5)   Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (6)   Fairgrounds, circuses, coliseums, race tracks and other similar
exposition and recreational uses.
      (7)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, and nursing homes. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089).
      (8)   Hotels and motels, including restaurants and meeting rooms.
      (9)   Meeting halls.
      (10)   Planned developments, limited to district permitted uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (11)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution or exchange facilities.
      (12)   Railroad freight cars, to be used for storage only as an accessory
use to the primary use and located not in the front yard area.
      (13)   Massage or similar personal service shops.
      (14)   Rock concerts, beer blasts, or any similar outdoor activities,
when operated in conjunction with or separate from an existing business
established on the site.
      (15)   Licensed veterans establishment.
      (16)   Licensed fraternal establishment.
      (17)   Licensed truck stop establishment.
      (18)   Convenience store.
      (19)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (20)   Drive-up window, restaurant or convenience store.
      (21)   Indoor shooting ranges, conceal and carry lessons, or firearms
safety courses. Any shooting ranges must be at least 1,000 feet from any
residence.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051(B), §
93.052). Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land, including the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (2)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock,
provided that the storage shall be located on the lot with the retail, service,
or commercial use. There can be storage on the outside of the building,
provided that it is kept in a neat and orderly condition, and not permitted to
create a health hazard and an eyesore to the general area.
      (3)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
      (4)   Video games and amusements, electronic devices, and other similar
devices. This accessory use can only be used in conjunction with licensed
eating and drinking establishments, licensed veterans establishments, licensed
truck stop establishments, or licensed fraternal establishments and must adhere
to all governing statutes including but not limited to the Illinois Video Game
Act (230 ILCS 40).
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   The following uses shall not be permitted: Boarding and rooming
houses; dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses; apartment hotels; mobile
homes or mobile home parks; and any uses for living quarters not specifically
provided for in this section.
      (2)   Provided that neither junk yards, the dismantling of vehicles, or
the storage of dismantled vehicles, petroleum bulk plants, or outside storage
of inflammable liquids or explosives, shall be permitted in this district.
      (3)   Establishments of the drive-in type offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles are not permitted.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for the primary use taking
place on the property.
      (5)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (6)   Junk and debris, and outdoor storage of goods and materials where
such storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.030 B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. This business district is intended to provide a greater
variety of business uses not permitted in the B-1 District, and for some
business uses which are not directly compatible with retail service uses.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Dwelling units, lodging rooms; not permitted below second floor.
Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second floors
except for the business owner or operator of a motel, hotel or similar use.
      (2)   Sale of foodstuffs, etc; conducted within enclosed building. The
sale of foodstuffs or articles intended for human consumption shall be
conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
      (3)   Incidental and essential to retail business. There shall be no
manufacture, processing, or treatment of products other than those, which are
clearly incidental and essential to the retail business conducted on the same
premises.
      (4)   Limited to five persons. Not more than five persons (exclusive of
manager, clerks and drivers) shall be engaged in the manufacture, processing or
treatment of products.
      (5)   Nuisances not permitted. Such uses, operations or products shall
not cause objectionable odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar
nuisances.
      (6)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the buildings.
      (7)   Front yard. There shall be provided on every lot a front yard not
less than 50 feet in depth except that when existing buildings located in the
district have already established a building line at a depth less than required
above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line.
      (8)   Side yard. A side yard of a minimum of ten feet shall be provided.
      (9)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet,
however, an accessory building may be located thereon, except for the five feet
adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley line, for the storage of
motor vehicles and the unloading and loading of vehicles under roof.
      (10)   Maximum floor are ratio and coverage. The floor area ratio shall
not exceed 1.2, and not more than 60% of a zoning lot shall be covered by a
building or buildings.
      (11)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Loading Area §
             93.148
Parking      §
             93.147
Signs        §
             93.119
   
      (12)   Buffer area. When abutting a residential district or lot, a six
foot tall sight-proof fence or ten foot tall landscaped screen shall be
provided. Such landscaped screen shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least
five feet in height when planted and shall be maintained at not less than ten
feet in height when fully grown. Other forms of screening shall be as approved
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Permitted uses. The following retail and service uses are permitted,
provided they are operated within a building, except for off-street parking or
loading facilities.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-1 District.
      (2)   Ambulance service.
      (3)   Amusement establishments: Bowling alleys, pool halls, dance halls,
skating rinks and other similar places of recreation.
      (4)   Automobile accessory store.
      (5)   Auction rooms.
      (6)   Automobile service and repair station but excluding auto body
repair and painting.
      (7)   Automobile sales (new), which may include service and repair, and
painting and auto body repair.
      (8)   Blueprinting and photo stating establishments.
      (9)   Bicycle sales and repair.
      (10)   Boat showrooms, sales and service.
      (11)   Carwash, either automatic or self-service.
      (12)   Catering establishments.
      (13)   Exterminating shops.
      (14)   Garages, public, for storage of private passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one-half-ton capacity.
      (15)   Hand laundries.
      (16)   Hotels and motels, including restaurants and meeting rooms.
      (17)   Laboratories (medical, dental, research, experimental and
testing), provided no production or manufacturing of products takes place.
      (18)   Loan offices.
      (19)   Meeting halls.
      (20)   Commercial mobile structures, provided they meet the requirements
of the county building code for placement in the county. These are to be only
commercial mobile structures that have received prior approval of the Land Uses
Committee and are on file in the office of the Building Department.
      (21)   Pawn shops.
      (22)   Physical culture and health services.
      (23)   Printing and publishing of newspapers, periodicals, books.
      (24)   Radio and television broadcasting stations.
      (25)   Schools. Music, dance, business, commercial or trade.
      (26)   Taxidermist shops.
      (27)   Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
      (28)   Undertaking establishments, funeral parlors, or mortuaries.
      (29)   [Reserved].
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162,
93.178).
      (1)   Eating and drinking establishments.
      (2)   Churches, rectories and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (3)   Clubs or lodges (nonprofit), fraternal or religious institutions.
      (4)   Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (5)   Fairgrounds, circuses, coliseums, race tracks and other similar
exposition and recreational uses.
      (6)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089).
      (7)   Meeting halls.
      (8)   Planned developments, limited to district permitted uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (9)   Utilities. Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
      (10)   Taxi cab service (See §
93.060).
      (11)   Drive-up window, restaurant or convenience store. (See §
93.060).
      (12)   Railroad freight cars, to be used for storage only as an accessory
use to the primary use and located not in the front yard area.
      (13)   Licensed veterans establishment.
      (14)   Licensed fraternal establishment.
      (15)   Licensed truck stop establishment.
      (16)   Convenience store.
      (17)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (18)   Indoor shooting ranges, conceal and carry lessons, or firearms
safety courses. Any shooting ranges must be at least 1,000 feet from any
residence.
      (19)   Animal hospitals.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051(B), §
93.052).
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (2)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock,
provided the storage shall be located on the lot with the retail, service, or
commercial use. There can be storage of on the outside of the building,
provided that it is kept in a neat and orderly condition, and not permitted to
create a health hazard and an eyesore to the general area.
      (3)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
      (4)   Video games and amusements, electronic devices, and other similar
devices. This accessory use can only be used in conjunction with licensed
eating and drinking establishments, licensed veterans establishments, licensed
truck stop establishments, or licensed fraternal establishments and must adhere
to all governing statutes including but not limited to the Illinois Video Game
Act (230 ILCS 40).
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   The following uses shall not be permitted: Boarding and rooming
houses; dormitories, fraternity, and sorority houses; apartment hotels; mobile
homes or mobile home parks; and any uses for living quarters not specifically
provided for in this section.
      (2)   Neither junkyards, the dismantling of vehicles, the storage of
dismantled vehicles, petroleum bulk plants, or outside storage of inflammable
liquids or explosives, shall be permitted in this district.
      (3)   Establishments of the drive-in type offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles are not permitted.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for a permitted primary
use taking place on the property.
      (5)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (6)   Junk and debris, outdoor storage of goods and materials where such
storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2017-02,
passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.031 B-3 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The Highway Business District is intended to provide for the
establishment of certain highway oriented commercial activities and to prohibit
inappropriate and incompatible commercial activities. Such areas must be
carefully located so as not to unduly constrict, impede, or reduce the normal
flow of traffic and to provide for reasonably safe access and egress from
adjacent highways.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Dwelling units, lodging rooms; not permitted below second floor.
Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second floors
except for the business owner or operator of a motel, hotel or similar use.
      (2)   Incidental and essential to retail business. There shall be no
manufacture, processing, or treatment of products other than those, which are
clearly incidental and essential to the retail business conducted on the same
premises.
      (3)   Limited to five persons. Not more than five persons (exclusive of
manager, clerks and drivers) shall be engaged in the manufacture, processing,
or treatment of products.
      (4)   Nuisances not permitted. These uses, operations or products shall
not cause objectionable odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration or other similar
nuisances.
      (5)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the buildings.
      (6)   Front yard. There shall be provided on every lot a front yard not
less than 50 feet in depth, except that when existing buildings located in this
district have already established a building line at a depth less than required
above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line.
      (7)   Side yard. A side yard of a minimum of ten feet shall be provided.
      (8)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet,
provided, that an accessory building may be located thereon, except for the
five feet adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley line, for the
storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and loading of vehicles under roof.
      (9)   Maximum floor area ratio and coverage. The floor area ratio shall
not exceed 1.5 and not more than 75% of a zoning lot shall be covered by a
building or buildings.
      (10)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Loading Area §
             93.148
Parking      §
             93.177
Signs        §
             93.119
 
      (11)   Buffer area. When abutting a residential district or lot, a six
foot tall sight-proof fence or ten foot tall landscaped screen shall be
provided. Such landscaped screen shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least
five feet in height when planted and shall be maintained at not less than ten
feet in height when fully grown. Other forms of screening shall be as approved
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-2 Business District.
      (2)    Agricultural implement sales and services, on a lot within a
building.
      (3)   Animal hospital.
      (4)   Beverages, nonalcoholic, bottling and distributing.
      (5)   Camping trailer sales.
      (6)   Construction trailers, provided they are only used for storage and
not occupied.
      (7)   Contractors' offices and shops, where no fabrication is done on the
premises and where storage of materials and equipment is permitted on the
outside of the building, provided they are kept in a neat and orderly
condition, and not permitted to create a health hazard and an eye-sore to the
general area. This is also includes excavation contracting businesses.
      (8)    Greenhouse, for retail trade on the premises.
      (9)   Hang-glider sales and service shops.
      (10)   Live bait stores.
      (11)   Miniature golf courses.
      (12)   Mobile home sales not including occupancy of trailers.
      (13)   Monument sales, but not including the cutting or grinding of
stones, on an open lot or within a building.
      (14)   Motorcycle sales and repair.
      (15)   Plumbing, heating and roofing supply shops.
      (16)   Recycling of papers, cans, plastic or glass bottles, containers
and jars, household alkaline batteries and other energy-recyclable materials.
Any storage on the outside must be kept in a neat and orderly condition, and
not permitted to create a health hazard and an eyesore to the area. Any
hazardous materials must be confined so that a danger is not created.
      (17)   Riding academies and public stables.
      (18)   Trailer sales business on an open lot or within a building, not
including occupancy of trailers.
      (19)   Ultra-light sales and service shops.
      (20)   Used passenger automobile sales on an open lot or within a
building.
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (1)   Eating and drinking establishments.
      (2)   Churches, rectories and parish houses (see §
93.077).
      (3)   Clubs or lodges (nonprofit), fraternal or religious institutions.
      (4)   Drive-in theaters.
      (5)   Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (6)   Fairgrounds, circuses, coliseums, race tracks and other similar
exposition and recreational uses.
      (7)   Hospitals, sanitariums, rest homes, nursing homes. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089).
      (8)   Hotels and motels, including restaurants and meeting rooms.
      (9)   Meeting halls.
      (10)   Planned developments, limited to district permitted uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (11)   Utilities. Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
      (12)   Adult business.
      (13)   Winery with a tasting room.
      (14)   Railroad freight cars and box trailer, to be used for storage
only; install as an accessory use to the primary use and located not in the
front yard area.
      (15)   Licensed veterans establishment.
      (16)   Licensed fraternal establishment.
      (17)   Licensed truck stop establishment.
      (18)   Convenience store.
      (19)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (20)   Drive-up window, restaurant or convenience store.
      (21)   Indoor shooting ranges, conceal and carry lessons, or firearms
safety courses. Any shooting ranges must be at least 1,000 feet from any
residence.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051(B), §
93.052). Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (2)    Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock,
provided that the storage shall be located on the lot with the retail, service,
or commercial use. There can be storage on the outside of the building,
provided that it is kept in a neat and orderly condition, and not permitted to
create a health hazard and an eyesore to the general area.
      (3)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
      (4)   Video games and amusements, electronic devices, and other similar
devices. This accessory use can only be used in conjunction with licensed
eating and drinking establishments, licensed veterans establishments, licensed
truck stop establishments, or licensed fraternal establishments and must adhere
to all governing statutes including but not limited to the Illinois Video Game
Act (230 ILCS 40).
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   The following use shall not be permitted: Boarding and rooming
houses; dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses; apartment hotels; mobile
homes or mobile home parks; and any uses for living quarters not specifically
provided for in this section.
      (2)   Neither junkyards, the dismantling of vehicles, or the storage of
dismantled vehicles, petroleum bulk plants, or outside storage of inflammable
liquids or explosives, shall be permitted in this district.
      (3)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for a permitted primary
use taking place on the property.
      (4)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (5)   Junk and debris, and outdoor storage of goods and materials where
such storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.032 B-4 WHOLESALE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. This zone district is created to encourage the development,
location, and growth of business, business related, and other uses that are not
generally compatible with other direct retail sales. This district provides for
wholesale and business uses, which often require large lots and storage areas
that create land uses patterns not conducive to pedestrian shopping.
   (B)   Conditions of use.
      (1)   Dwelling units, lodging rooms; not permitted below second floor.
Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second floor,
except in hotels and motels or for the owner or operator of the business.
      (2)   Uses, operations or products to not be objectionable. Permitted
uses, operations, or products shall not be objectionable due to odor, dust,
smoke, noise vibrations, or other similar causes.
      (3)   Screening or plantings. Storage outside a building must provide
screening or plantings as reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and approved by
the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (4)   Maximum floor area ratio and coverage. The floor area ratio shall
not exceed 2.5.
      (5)   Yard areas. No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the
following yards are provided and maintained in connection with the building.
      (6)   Additional requirements. The applicant shall refer to the following
sections for additional requirements:
 
Parking      §
             93.147
Signs        §
             93.119
Loading Area §
             93.148
 
      (7)   Front yard. There shall be provided on every lot a front yard not
less than 50 feet in depth, except that when existing buildings located in this
district have already established a building line at a depth less than required
above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line.
      (8)   Side yard. A side yard of a minimum of ten feet shall be provided.
      (9)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet;
however, an accessory building may be located thereon, except for the five feet
adjacent and parallel to the rear lot line or alley line, for the storage of
motor vehicles and the unloading and loading of vehicles under roof.
      (10)   Buffer area. When abutting a residential district or lot, a six
foot tall sight-proof fence or ten foot tall landscaped screen shall be
provided. Such landscaped screen shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least
five feet in height when planted and shall be maintained at not less than ten
feet in height when fully grown. Other forms of screening shall be as approved
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the B-3 District.
      (2)   Automobile or agricultural implement sales, repair, and service
stations.
      (3)   Building materials sales.
      (4)   Business machines, repair service, storage and wholesale.
      (5)   Cement products, wholesale (pipe, blocks, and the like).
      (6)   Display, designers', and builders' shops.
      (7)   Exterminating shops.
      (8)   Feed and seed stores.
      (9)   Food products, brokers, distributors.
      (10)   Greenhouses, wholesale growers.
      (11)   Heating and air conditioning (fabricating and assembly).
      (12)   Lumberyards.
      (13)   Machine and equipment rental and repair.
      (14)   Membership clubs.
      (15)   “Par 3" golf courses, miniature golf courses, and commercially
operated driving ranges.
      (16)   Parking lots and garages.
      (17)   Physical culture and health services.
      (18)   Printing and publishing of newspapers, periodicals, books, and
including letter process work.
      (19)   Radio and television broadcasting stations.
      (20)   Schools: Music, dance, business, commercial or trade.
      (21)   Travel trailer sales.
      (22)   Souvenir shops and stands provided that all goods and services are
sold or provided within completely enclosed buildings.
      (23)   Storage of automobiles in running condition.
      (24)   Termite control contractor shops.
      (25)   Warehouses, including self storage facilities. Outdoor covered or
uncovered storage of recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, and the like are
permitted in self-storage facilities, but must be screened from adjacent
properties via six foot tall sight-proof fencing or landscaped screening as
approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (26)   Weighers, commercial.
      (27)   Welding, equipment and supplies, storage.
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178). The following uses may be allowed by special uses permit in accordance
with provisions of §§
93.162 and
93.178.
      (1)   Any uses which may be allowed as a special uses in the B-1 Limited
Business District.
      (2)   Bus terminal or other public transportation terminal facilities.
      (3)   Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (4)   Planned Unit Developments limited to the permitted uses in this
district.
      (5)   Outdoor theaters (drive-in).
      (6)   Outdoor amusement establishments, fairgrounds, carnivals, circuses,
race tracks, and other similar amusement centers, including places of assembly
devoted thereto, such as stadiums and arenas.
      (7)   Eating and drinking establishments.
      (8)   Utilities, electrical substations, other public utility
distribution facilities.
      (9)   Licensed veterans establishment.
      (10)   Licensed fraternal establishment.
      (11)   Licensed truck stop establishment.
      (12)   Convenience store.
      (13)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (14)   Drive-up window, restaurant or convenience store.
      (15)   Indoor shooting ranges, conceal and carry lessons, or firearms
safety courses. Any shooting ranges must be at least 1,000 feet from any
residence.
      (16)   Hospitals, sanitarium, rest homes, nursing homes. (See §§
93.084 and
93.089).
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051(B)) Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal uses of the lot or tract of land.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (2)    Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock,
provided that such storage shall be located on the lot with the retail, service
or commercial use. There can be storage on the outside of the building,
provided that it is kept in a neat and orderly condition, and not permitted to
create a health hazard and an eyesore to the general area.
      (3)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
      (4)   Video games and amusements, electronic devices, and other similar
devices. This accessory use can only be used in conjunction with licensed
eating and drinking establishments, licensed veterans establishments, licensed
truck stop establishments, or licensed fraternal establishments and must adhere
to all governing statutes including but not limited to the Illinois Video Game
Act (230 ILCS 40).
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   The following uses shall not be permitted: Boarding and rooming
houses; dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses; apartment hotels; mobile
homes or mobile home parks; and any uses for living quarters not specifically
provided for in this section.
      (2)   Neither junkyards, the dismantling of vehicles or the storage of
dismantled vehicles, petroleum bulk plants, or outside storage of inflammable
liquids or explosives, shall be permitted in this district.
      (3)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for a permitted primary
use taking place on the property.
      (4)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (5)   Junk and debris, and outdoor storage of goods and materials where
such storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-20017; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.033 B-5 PLANNED BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The B-5 Planned Business District of the county is designed
to provide for maximum commercial site design and utilization in areas
favorable for commercial growth but experiencing a variety of developmental
problems. These problems my relate to existing or future traffic, land
acquisition, topographical, utility, and related problem areas. This zone
district provides maximum flexibility for the developer to create an
attractive, profitable, commercial enterprises and for the county to maximize
vehicular and pedestrian safety, to potentially reduce capital expenditures for
public improvements, and to create more attractive county. This zone district
will facilitate the combination and establishment of developments and uses in
locations where it would be appropriate under approved site plans and
conditions necessary to protect the general welfare.
   (B)   Conditions of use. The procedures and conditions of approval for a
planned commercial development are contained in §§
93.162 and
93.178.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Within this zone district, only planned commercial
developments will be permitted. Permitted uses my include any combination of
commercial uses upon approval of the individual development applications.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. Any accessory use approved in a development
plan.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.034 M-1 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The M-1 District delineates areas where a satisfactory
correlation of factors such as adequate transportation facilities,
accessibility for employees, efficient land assembly, adequate topographical
conditions, and adequate provisions of public utilities required by industry
may be achieved. It is intended that this particular district will generally
provide for light industry of an assembly nature from finished goods,
warehousing and wholesaling activities. Supportive services for light industry
are generally of a non-retail or personal service character and should be
encouraged to locate in this district.
   (B)   Conditions of uses. The permitted uses shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   Uses shall take place without disturbing adjoining properties. Any
production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair or storage of
goods, materials, or products shall take place without creating disturbing
influences to the uses and occupancy of adjoining properties.
      (2)   Uses to take place in completely enclosed building. All business,
production, servicing and processing shall take place within a completely
enclosed building unless otherwise approved. Storage of equipment and supplies
in this district may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by a wall or
fence, including gates, at least eight feet high and if abutting an R District
an approved landscaped screen shall be provided. Open off-street loading
facilities and open, off-street parking facilities for the storage of motor
vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the district, except for such screening
of parking and loading facilities as may be required to protect adjacent uses
or residential districts.
      (3)   Railroad siding frontage. No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
      (4)   Buffer areas. A six foot tall sight-proof fence or 20-foot tall
planting screen, consisting of suitable shrubbery and trees, shall be provided
wherever an industrial use abuts any other use district. This landscaped screen
shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least five feet in height when planted
and shall be maintained at not less than 20 feet in height when fully grown.
Other forms of screen shall be as appointed by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered unless the following yards are provided and maintained in
connection with the building.
      (6)   Front yard. On every zoning lot, a front yard of not less than 25
feet in depth shall be provided.
      (7)   Side yards. On every zoning lot, a side yard shall be provided
along each side lot line. Each side yard shall be not less in width than 10% of
the lot width or minimum of ten feet, but need not exceed 20 feet in width.
      (8)   Rear yard. A rear yard sufficient for structural maintenance or
safety equipment of at least 12 feet in depth shall be provided.
      (9)   Maximum floor area ratio. The maximum floor area ratio shall not
exceed 1.5.
      (10)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Loading Area §
             93.148
Parking      §
             93.147
Signs        §
             93.121
 
   (C)   Permitted uses.  Production, processing, cleaning, testing or repair,
limited to the following uses and products:
      (1)   Advertising displays.
      (2)   Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
      (3)   Art needle work and hand weaving.
      (4)   Automobile painting, upholstering, repairing, reconditioning, and
body fender repairing when done within the confines of a structure.
      (5)   Awning, Venetian blinds.
      (6)   Bakeries.
      (7)   Beverages, nonalcoholic.
      (8)   Blacksmith shop.
      (9)   Books, hand binding and tooling.
      (10)    Bottling works.
      (11)   Brushes and brooms.
      (12)   Building equipment, building material, lumber, coal, sand, and
gravel yards, and yards for contracting equipment of public agencies, or public
utilities or material of a similar nature.
      (13)   Cameras and other photographic equipment and supplies.
      (14)   Canning and preserving.
      (15)   Canvas and canvas products.
      (16)   Carpet and rug cleaning.
      (17)   Carting, express hauling or storage yard.
      (18)   Ceramic products such as pottery and small glazed tile.
      (19)    Cleaning and dyeing establishments.
      (20)   Clothing.
      (21)   Contractor or construction shops, such as: Building, cement,
electrical, excavation, refrigeration, air conditioning, masonry, painting,
plumbing, roofing, heating, and ventilation.
      (22)   Cosmetics and toiletries.
      (23)   Creameries and dairies.
      (24)   Dentures.
      (25)   Drugs.
      (26)   Electrical appliances, such s lighting fixtures, irons, fans,
toasters, and electric toys.
      (27)   Electrical equipment assembly, such as home radio and television
receivers and home movie equipment.
      (28)   Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly of wire and cable
assembly switches, lamps, insulation, and dry cell batteries.
      (29)   Food products processing and combining of (except meat and fish);
baking, boiling, canning, cooking, dehydrating, freezing, frying, grinding,
mixing, and pressing.
      (30)   Fur goods, not including tanning and dyeing.
      (31)   Glass products, from previously manufactured glass.
      (32)   Greenhouses (wholesale).
      (33)   Hair, felt and feather products (except washing, curing, dyeing).
      (34)   Hat bodies of fur and wool felt.
      (35)   Hosiery.
      (36)   Ice, dry and natural.
      (37)   Ink mixing, packing, and inked ribbons.
      (38)   Insecticides.
      (39)   Jewelry.
      (40)   Laboratories - medical, dental, research, experimental, and
testing; provided there is no danger from fire or explosion, nor offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or other objectionable
influences.
      (41)   Laundries.
      (42)   Leather products, including shoes and machine belting.
      (43)   Luggage.
      (44)   Machine shops for tool, die and pattern making.
      (45)   Mail order houses.
      (46)   Metal finishing, plating, grinding, sharpening, polishing,
cleaning, rust proofing, and heat treatment.
      (47)   Metal stamping and extrusion of small products, such as costume
jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensils.
      (48)   Modular building units for office commercial uses, provided they
meet the requirements of the building code for placement in the county. These
are to be only modular building units have received prior approval of the
Building and Zoning Committee and are on file in the office of the Building
Department.
      (49)   Musical instruments.
      (50)   Orthopedic and medical appliances, such as artificial limbs,
braces, supports, and stretchers.
      (51)   Paper products, small, such as envelopes and stationery, bags,
boxes, tubes and wallpaper printing.
      (52)   Perfumes and cosmetics.
      (53)   Pharmaceutical product, compounding only.
      (54)   Plastic products, but not including the processing of raw
materials.
      (55)   Poultry and rabbits, slaughtering.
      (56)   Precision instruments such as optical, medical, and drafting.
      (57)   Products for finished materials: Plastics, bone, cork, feathers,
felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, precious, and semiprecious
stones, rubber, shell or yarn.
      (58)   Printing and newspaper publishing, including engraving and
photoengraving.
      (59)   Repair of household or office machine or equipment.
      (60)   Rubber products, small, and synthetic treated fabrics (excluding
all rubber and synthetic processing) such as washers, gloves, footwear, bathing
caps and atomizers.
      (61)   Silverware, plate and sterling.
      (62)   Soap and detergents, packaging only.
      (63)   Soldering and welding.
      (64)   Sporting and athletic equipment, such as balls, cues, gloves,
bats, rackets and rods.
      (65)   Statuary, mannequins, figurines, and religious and church art
goods, excluding foundry operations.
      (66)   Storage of household goods.
      (67)   Storage and sale of trailers, farm implements, and other similar
equipment on an open lot.
      (68)   Underground storage of flammable liquids, fats or oil in tanks
each of 50,000 gallons or less capacity.
      (69)   Telephone booth, public.
      (70)   Textiles: Spinning, weaving, manufacturing, dyeing, printing, knit
goods, yard, thread and cordage, but not including textile bleaching.
      (71)   Tobacco curing and manufacturing, and tobacco products.
      (72)   Tool and die shops.
      (73)   Tools and hardware, such as bolts, nuts, screws, doorknobs,
drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges, house hardware, locks, nonferrous
metal, casting and plumbing appliances.
      (74)   Toys.
      (75)   Truck tractor, trailer, or bus storage yard, but not including a
truck or motor freight terminal.
      (76)   Umbrellas.
      (77)   Upholstering (bulk), including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding
and renovating.
      (78)   Vehicles, children's such as bicycles, scooters, wagons and baby
carriages.
      (79)   Watches.
      (80)   Wood products, such as furniture, boxes, crates, baskets, and
pencils, and cooperage works.
      (81)   Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated without
creating unreasonable noise, odor, dust smoke, gas, fumes or vapor; and that is
a use compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
      (82)   Wholesale and warehousing; local cartage and express facilities
(but not including motor freight terminals).
      (83)   Public and community service users as follows: Bus terminals, bus
garages, bus lots, railway facilities and car houses.
      (84)   Fire stations.
      (85)   Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or community
centers.
      (86)   Parks and recreation areas.
      (87)   Police stations.
      (88)   Sewage treatment plants.
      (89)   Telephone exchanges.
      (90)   Telephone booths, public.
      (91)   Water pumping station.
      (92)   Water reservoirs.
      (93)   Residential areas, as follows: Dwelling units for watchmen and
their families when located on the premises where they are employed in this
capacity.
      (94)   T.V. disks.
      (95)   Large transport trailer. (See §
93.097).
      (96)   Telecommunication facility not to exceed 200 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099).
      (97)   All land used for agricultural purposes, which includes the
growing of farm crops, truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry,
apiculture, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, and
wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural purposes constitute the principal
activity on the land. Permitted only on non-urban tracts of land five acres or
greater in size.
   (D)   Special uses.
      (1)   Airport or aircraft landing fields.
      (2)   Animal pounds and shelters.
      (3)   Automobile service stations, lubrication and washing facilities,
including car washes, are permitted only if in a completely enclosed building.
      (4)   Banks or financial institutions.
      (5)   Battery and tire service stations.
      (6)   Currency exchanges.
      (7)   Drug stores.
      (8)   Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (9)   Fuel sales, with storage of oils, gasoline, and other flammable
products.
      (10)   Garages and parking lots other than accessory.
      (11)   Greenhouses.
      (12)   Ice sales, linen, towel, diaper and other similar supply services.
      (13)   Motor freight terminals.
      (14)   Planned developments, industrial, limited to the uses of this
district.
      (15)   Railroad freight cars, to be used for storage only as an accessory
use to the primary use and located not in the front yard area.
      (16)   Public utility electric substations and distribution centers, gas
regulation centers, and underground gasholder stations.
      (17)   Riding academies and stables.
      (18)   Sanitary landfill.
      (19)   Stadiums, auditoriums, and arenas.
      (20)   Stone and gravel quarries and crushing grading, washing and
loading equipment and structure.
      (21)   Surface shaft mining of all kinds.
      (22)   Theaters, outdoor drive-in.
      (23)   Trade schools.
      (24)   Impound storage yards, including towing services.
      (25)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (26)   Recycling facilities for the collection, temporary storage,
processing, cleaning, repair, grinding, or shredding of recyclable materials
such as metals, auto parts, power equipment and auto batteries, and
electronics. This does not include scrap yards, pick-and-pull operations, or
junkyards. All dismantling of vehicles and storage of recyclable materials
shall be within enclosed structures or an area enclosed by a sight-proof fence
at least ten feet in height. All fluids (gases, oils, and the like) must be
removed from the vehicles prior to storage on site, and batteries must be
stored in compliance with the Illinois Environmental Protection Act. Haul away
of dismantled vehicles stored on site shall occur on a monthly basis.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.057(B), §
93.052). Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
      (1)   Dwelling units for watchmen when located on the premises where they
are employed in that capacity.
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (3)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock.
      (4)   Telephone booths.
      (5)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of the construction.
      (6)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Neither junkyards, the dismantling of vehicles nor the storage of
dismantled vehicles, petroleum bulk plants, or outside storage of flammable
gases, liquids or explosives, shall be permitted in this district.
      (2)   Research and development of any commodity from explosives or
flammable liquids or gases.
      (3)   The following shall not be permitted: Boarding and rooming houses
dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses, apartment hotels, mobile home
parks, and any uses for living quarters not specifically provided for in this
section.
      (4)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for a permitted primary
use taking place on the property.
      (5)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (6)   Junk and debris, and outdoor storage of goods and materials where
such storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.035 M-2 GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The M-2 General Manufacturing District encompasses areas
where there is a satisfactory correlation of factors such as adequate
transportation facilities, accessibility for employees, efficient land
assembly, adequate topographical conditions, and where the adequate provision
of public utilities and power facilities required by industry may be achieved.
It is intended that this district will provide for a type of manufacturing and
land use that is not permitted in the M-1 Limited Manufacturing District and
that meets the requirements and conditions of this zoning code.
   (B)   Conditions of use.  The permitted uses shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   Uses to occur without disturbances. Any production, processing,
cleaning, servicing testing, repair or storage of goods, materials, or products
shall take place without creating disturbing influences to the use and
occupancy of adjoining properties.
      (2)   Uses to occur completely within enclosed building. All business,
production, servicing, and processing shall take place within a completely
enclosed building unless otherwise approved. Storage of equipment and supplies
in this district may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by a wall or
fence, including gates, at least eight feet high. Open off-street loading
facilities and open, off-street parking facilities for the storage of motor
vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the district, except for such screening
of parking and loading facilities as my be required to protect adjacent uses or
residential districts.
      (3)   Railroad siding frontage. No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
      (4)   Buffer areas. A six foot tall sight-proof fence or 20-foot tall
planting screen, consisting of suitable shrubbery and trees, shall be provided
wherever an industrial uses abuts any other use district. Such landscaped
screen shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least five feet in height when
planted and shall be maintained at not less than 20 feet in height when fully
grown. Other forms of screen shall be as approved by the Zoning Administrator,
and/or the Zoning Board of Appeals in its discretion.
      (5)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered unless the following yards are provided and maintained in
connection with the building.
      (6)   Front yard. On every zoning lot, a front yard of not less than 25
feet in depth shall be provided.
      (7)   Side yard. On every zoning lot, a side yard shall be provided along
each side lot line. Each side yard shall be not less in width than 10% of the
lot width or ten feet whichever is greater but need not exceed 20 feet in
width.
      (8)   Rear yard. A rear yard sufficient for structural maintenance or
safety equipment of at least 12 feet in depth shall be provided.
      (9)   Maximum floor area ratio. The maximum floor area ratio shall not
exceed 3.0.
      (10)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Loading Area §
             93.148
Parking      §
             93.147
Signs        §
             93.121
 
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any uses permitted in the M-1 District.
      (2)   Agricultural buildings and structure.
      (3)   Air conditioning contractors' offices, shops, and yards.
      (4)   Architects' office, shops, and yards.
      (5)   Arenas.
      (6)   Auditoriums.
      (7)   Automobiles testing rounds.
      (8)   Building contractor or construction offices, shops, and yards.
      (9)   Building material sales.
      (10)   Bus garages.
      (11)   Bus lots.
      (12)   Bus stations.
      (13)   Bus terminals.
      (14)   Car wash establishments.
      (15)   Cement contractors' offices, shops, and yards.
      (16)   Cement block manufacture.
      (17)   Crafting.
      (18)   Dumping or disposal areas, garbage, refuse or trash.
      (19)   Electrical contractors' offices, shops, and yards.
      (20)   Engineers' offices, shops, and yards.
      (21)   Express facilities.
      (22)   Freight terminals, air.
      (23)   Freight terminal, railroad and water.
      (24)   Fuel sales.
      (25)   Garages for storage, repair, and servicing of motor vehicles
(unrestricted).
      (26)   Gas regulator stations.
      (27)   Hangars, aircraft.
      (28)   Heating contractors' offices, shops, and yards.
      (29)   Highway maintenance shops and yards.
      (30)   Ice sales.
      (31)   Labor organization lodges and offices.
      (32)   Commercial mobile structures, provided they meet the requirements
of the county building code for placement in the county. These are to be only
commercial mobile structures that have received prior approval of the Building
and Zoning Committee and are on file in the office of the Building Department.
      (33)   Motor freight terminals.
      (34)   Masonry contractors' offices, shops, and yards.
      (35)   Oils, storage and wholesale distribution.
      (36)   Packing.
      (37)   Painting contractors' offices, shops and yards.
      (38)   Parking lots, open or enclosed and other than accessory
(unrestricted).
      (39)   Parks.
      (40)   Penal institutions.
      (41)   Petroleum, storage and wholesale distribution.
      (42)   Plastic products.
      (43)   Planned developments, industrial limited to the district uses.
      (44)   Plumbing contractors' offices, shops and yards.
      (45)   Printing.
      (46)   Race tracks (all types).
      (47)   Radar installations.
      (48)   Radio stations and towers(transmitting and receiving).
      (49)   Radio studios.
      (50)   Railroad freight terminals.
      (51)   Railroad labor rest houses, hotels, and camps.
      (52)   Railroad passenger stations.
      (53)   Railroad switching and classification yards, repair shops, and
round houses.
      (54)   Refrigeration contractors' offices, shops and yards.
      (55)    Roofing contractors' offices, shops and yards.
      (56)   Stadiums.
      (57)   Storage.
      (58)   Television stations and towers (transmitting and receiving).
      (59)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes.
      (60)   Theaters (automobile drive-in).
      (61)   Ventilating contractors' offices, shop and yards.
      (62)   Warehousing.
      (63)   Water freight terminals.
      (64)   Water reservoirs.
      (65)   Water service substations.
      (66)   Water works.
      (67)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair
or storage of materials, goods or products, but not including any of the uses
first listed as permitted in the M-3 Heavy Manufacturing District, that can be
operated without creating unreasonable noise, odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes, or
vapor; and that is a use compatible with the uses and occupancy of adjoining
properties.
      (68)   T.V. disks.
      (69)   Telecommunication facility not to exceed 200 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099)
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (1)   Airport, heliport, landing field.
      (2)    Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (3)   Junk yards and automobile wrecking yards, provided they are
contained within completely enclosed buildings or screened by a solid wall or
uniformly painted solid fence at least 12 feet high or screening as approved.
      (4)   Manufacturing, processing or storage involving flammable or
explosive materials, liquids or gases.
      (5)   Sanitary landfills and landfills.
      (6)   Slag piles, refining and ore waste.
      (7)   Stone and gravel quarries and crushing, grading, washing and
loading equipment and structures.
      (8)   Surface and shaft mining of all kinds.
      (9)   Railroad freight cars, to be used for storage only as an accessory
use to the primary use and located not in the front yard area.
      (10)   Utilities; electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
      (11)   Impound storage yards, including towing services.
      (12)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (13)   Recycling facilities for the collection, temporary storage,
processing, cleaning, repair, grinding, or shredding of recyclable materials
such as metals, auto parts, power equipment and auto batteries, and
electronics. This does not include scrap yards, pick-and-pull operations, or
junkyards. All dismantling of vehicles and storage of recyclable materials
shall be within enclosed structures or an area enclosed by a sight-proof fence
at least ten feet in height. All fluids (gases, oils, and the like) must be
removed from the vehicles prior to storage on site, and batteries must be
stored in compliance with the Illinois Environmental Protection Act. Haul away
of dismantled vehicles stored on site shall occur on a monthly basis.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.057(B), §
93.052).  Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of lot or tract of land, including the following:
      (1)   Dwelling units for watchmen when located on the premises where they
are employed in that capacity.
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (3)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock.
      (4)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of construction.
      (5)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   The following shall not be permitted: Boarding and rooming houses,
dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses, apartment hotels, mobile home
parks, and any uses for living quarters not specifically provided for in this
section.
      (2)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
a condition that they are inoperable on public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for a permitted primary
use taking place on the property.
      (3)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (4)   Junk and debris, and outdoor storage of goods and materials where
such storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.036 M-3 HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   General.  The M-3 Heavy Manufacturing district encompasses areas where
there is a satisfactory correlation of factors such as adequate transportation
facilities, accessibility for employees, efficient land assembly, adequate
topographical conditions, and where the adequate provision of public utilities
and power facilities required by industry may be achieved. It is intended that
this district will provide for a type of manufacturing and land use that this
district will provide for a type of manufacturing and land use that is not
permitted in the M-1 Limited Manufacturing and M-2 General Manufacturing
Districts and that meets the requirements and conditions of this zoning code.
   (B)   Conditions of use.  The permitted uses shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   Uses to occur without disturbances. Any production, processing,
cleaning servicing, testing, repair, or storage of goods, materials, or
products shall take place without creating disturbing influences to the use and
occupancy of adjoining properties.
      (2)   Uses to occur completely within enclosed building. All business,
production, servicing and processing shall take place within a completely
enclosed building unless otherwise approved. Storage of equipment and supplies
may be open to the sky but shall be enclosed by a wall or fence, including
gates, at least eight feet high and open, off-street loading and parking
facilities for the storage of motor vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the
district, except for such screening of parking and loading facilities may be
required.
      (3)   Railroad siding frontage. No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
      (4)   Buffer areas. A six foot tall sight-proof fence or 20 feet tall
planting screen, consisting of suitable shrubbery and trees, shall be provided
wherever an industrial use abuts any other use district. This landscaped screen
shall consist of shrubbery and trees at least five feet in height when planted
and shall be maintained at not less than 20 feet in height when fully grown.
Other forms of screen shall be as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Yard areas. No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered unless the following yards are provided and maintained in
connection with the building.
      (6)   Front yard. On every zoning lot, a front yard of not less than 25
feet in depth shall be provided.
      (7)   Side yard. On every zoning lot, side yard shall be provided along
each side lot line. Each side yard shall be not less in width than 10% of the
lot width or of ten feet whichever is greater but need not exceed 20 feet in
width.
      (8)   Rear yard. A rear yard sufficient for structural maintenance or
safety equipment of at least 12 feet in depth shall be provided.
      (9)   Maximum floor area ratio. The maximum floor area ratio shall not
exceed 3.0.
      (10)   Additional requirements. The applicant should refer to the
following sections for additional requirements:
 
Loading Area §
             93.148
Parking      §
             93.147
Signs        §
             93.120
 
   (C)   Permitted uses. Production, processing, cleaning servicing, testing
and repair, including the following uses and manufacturing of the following
products:
      (1)   Any uses permitted in the “M-1" and “M-2" Districts.
      (2)   Asphalt and asphalt products.
      (3)   Chemicals including acetylene, aniline, dyes, ammonia, carbide,
caustic soda, cellulose, chlorine, carbon black and bone black, cleaning and
polishing, preparations, creosote, exterminating agents, hydrogen and oxygen,
industrial alcohol, nitrating of cotton or other materials, nitrates
(manufactured and natural) of an explosive nature, potash, plastic materials
and synthetic resins, pyroxylin, rayon yarn, hydrochloric, picric and sulfuric
acids and derivatives.
      (4)   Coal, coke, and tar products, including gas manufacturing.
      (5)   Electric central station, power and steam generating plants.
      (6)   Fertilizers.
      (7)   Film, photographic.
      (8)   Flour, feed and grain, milling and processing.
      (9)   Gelatin, glue and size: Animal.
      (10)   Linoleum and oil cloth.
      (11)   Magnesium foundries.
      (12)   Matches.
      (13)   Metal and metal ores (except precious and rare metals), reduction,
refining, smelting and alloying.
      (14)   Modular building units for office commercial uses, provided they
meet the requirements of the county building code for placement in the county.
These are to be only modular building units that have received prior approval
of the Building and Zoning Committee and are on file in the office of the
Building Department.
      (15)   Paint, lacquer, shellac, varnishes, linseed oil and turpentine.
      (16)   Petroleum products, refining - such as gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, lubricating oil and liquefied petroleum gases.
      (17)   Railroad freight terminals, motor freight terminals, railroad
switching and classification yards, repair shops and roundhouses.
      (18)   Ready-mix cement plants.
      (19)   Rubber (natural or synthetic).
      (20)   Soaps, including fat and oil rendering.
      (21)   Starch.
      (22)   Stock yards, slaughterhouses and abattoirs.
      (23)   Wood, coal and bones, distillation.
      (24)   Wood pulp and fiber, reduction and processing, including paper
mill operation.
      (25)   Storage, including the following uses and materials or products:
Goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities permitted in this
district.
      (26)   Explosives.
      (27)   Grain.
      (28)   Manure, peat, and topsoil.
      (29)   Petroleum and petroleum products.
      (30)   T.V. disks.
      (31)   Telecommunication Facility not to exceed 200 feet in height.
(Subject to the requirements of §
93.099).
   (D)   Special uses. (See §§
93.162 and
93.178).
      (1)   Airport, heliport, landing field.
      (2)   Dwellings, frame construction only, including mobile homes in
compliance with §
93.101.
      (3)   Junk yards and automobile wrecking yards, provided they are
contained within completely enclosed buildings or screened by solid wall or
uniformly painted solid fence at least 12 feet high or screening as approved.
      (4)   Manufacturing, processing or storage involving flammable or
explosive materials, liquids or gases.
      (5)   Sanitary landfills and landfills.
      (6)   Slag piles, refining, and ore waste.
      (7)   Stone and gravel quarries and crushing, grading, washing and
loading equipment and structures.
      (8)   Surface and shaft mining of all kinds.
      (9)   Railroad freight cars, to be used for storage only as an accessory
use to the primary use and located not in the front yard area.
      (10)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, and
other public utility distribution facilities.
      (11)    Impound storage yards, including towing services.
      (12)   Gasoline service station, with or without a convenience store.
(See §
93.082).
      (13)   Recycling facilities for the collection, temporary storage,
processing, cleaning, repair, grinding, or shredding of recyclable materials
such as metals, auto parts, power equipment and auto batteries, and
electronics. This does not include scrap yards, pick-and-pull operations, or
junkyards. All dismantling of vehicles and storage of recyclable materials
shall be within enclosed structures or an area enclosed by a sight-proof fence
at least ten feet in height. All fluids (gases, oils, and the like) must be
removed from the vehicles prior to storage on site, and batteries must be
stored in compliance with the Illinois Environmental Protection Act. Haul away
of dismantled vehicles stored on site shall occur on a monthly basis.
   (E)   Accessory uses. (See §
93.051(B), §
93.052).  Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land, including the following:
      (1)   Dwelling units for watchmen when located on the premises where they
are employed in that capacity.
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (3)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock.
      (4)   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not
exceed the duration of the construction.
      (5)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures may include a
kitchenette or bathroom, but shall not include a full kitchen, bedroom, or
living space.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   The following shall not be permitted boarding and rooming houses,
dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses, apartment hotels, mobile home
parks or courts, and any uses for living quarters not specifically provided for
in this section.
      (2)   Vehicles, such as automobiles, buses, and trucks that do not bear a
current set of license plates; or are not in running condition; or are in such
condition that they are inoperable of public streets shall not be permitted
unless such vehicles are incidental to and essential for a permitted primary
use taking place on the property.
      (3)   Restaurants or bars that feature nude dancing in any form.
      (4)   Junk and debris, and outdoor storage of goods and materials where
such storage is not permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.037 PD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The purpose of this zoning district is to provide areas
suitable for planned developments. The Planned District is designed to provide
for site design and utilization in areas favorable for growth but experiencing
a variety of developmental problems, or for areas having access to urban
services, utilities, and public improvements containing potentially significant
site planning advantages for Planned Unit Developments. Problems may relate to
existing or future traffic, land acquisition, topographical, utility, and
related problem areas. It is the intent of this zone district to maximize the
public welfare and to provide the flexibility needed by developers to
potentially enhance the aesthetic quality, consumer benefits, and marketability
of multiple or single use developments and to reduce the capital investment
necessary for development, utilities and public improvement.
   (B)    Conditions of use. 
      (1)   General. The planned Unit Development can be Planned and developed
to result in an environment of superior quality than can be achieved under
traditional zoning requirements and practices.
      (2)   Natural features. Provision is made to accommodate and assure the
maintenance of unique natural and man-made amenities such as streams, stream
banks, flood plains, wooded areas, rough terrain, historic sites and similar
areas.
      (3)   Unified control. The land is or will be under continuing unified
control during and after construction, subject to the restrictions of this
section.
      (4)   Open Space. Common or public open space shall be provided in
sufficient quantity for amenity and recreational purposes. The quantity of open
and recreation space in residential developments shall be a minimum of 25% of
total land area and additionally shall be appropriate to the scale and
character of the Planned Unit Development, considering its size, density,
expected population, topography, and the number, type and density of land uses
to be provided.
      (5)   Utilities. All Planned Unit Developments shall be provided with a
central sewer and water system.
      (6)   Information required. Applicants for a PUD shall furnish the
information requested in §
93.162; see §
93.178 for procedures.
      (7)   Subdivision requirements. Applicants, after rezoning approval, the
issuance of the special use permit or concurrently with the zoning application,
shall submit a preliminary and a final development plat and shall meet the
requirements of the county subdivision code concerning the preliminary plat,
final plat, improvements, and open space.
      (8)   Changes after PUD completion. After the final plat has been
approved and construction has been completed changes in use or land area shall
only be by zoning amendment consistent with the intent and purpose of the PUD
except for changes that may increase the bulk of any building or rearrangement
of land use by not more than 10%.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Any combination of residential, commercial or
industrial uses as approved.
   (D)   Accessory use. Any accessory use approved in a development plan.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.038 A ZONE FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Periodic inundation. The flood hazard areas of the county are subject
to periodic inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Existing zone districts. All flood plains in the county are now
designated as A Zone zoning districts and it is assumed those district
designations will remain unless changed by a zoning amendment. The regulations
of this A Zone District apply in addition to existing zoning districts, and to
future rezoning concerning any district located in a flood plain. This district
is an overlay district and imposes additional requirements to developments
proposed in a flood plain.
      (2)   Most restrictive. The conditions and restrictions of the A Zone
District shall apply to any special or permitted use by an existing zoning
district.
      (3)   Conditions of use. Conditions of use shall be those applicable to
the existing district, those as apply to special uses, §§
93.038,
93.178, and
93.180.
      (4)   Flood hazard boundary maps. The flood hazard boundary map no. H-01-
47 dated January 31, 1975, and amendments thereto, delineating A Zones as areas
that are susceptible to the regulatory flood as prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) adopted for the purpose of this zoning code
and filed as record in the office of the County Clerk.
      (5)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall commence any
construction, substantial improvement, subdivision of land, placement of a
manufacturing home or other developments in areas located in an A Zone without
first obtaining a permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Administrator shall
not issue a permit for any construction, substantial improvement or other
development that does not comply with the provisions of this Zoning Code or
that has been denied a permit required by federal or state law including § 404
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
      (6)   Applications.
         (a)   Within areas designated as A Zones each application for
development shall be accompanied by elevations, in relation to mean sea level,
of the lowest habitable floor, including basement, and in the case of flood-
proofed structures, the elevation to which it will be flood proofed.
         (b)   The Administrator shall require certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect that flood proofing methods are adequate to
withstand the flood depths pressures, velocities, impact, and uplift forces,
and other factors associated with the regulatory flood.
         (c)   The application shall also contain information or certification
as reasonably may be required by the Administrator in order to determine
eligibility for permits or to enforce the terms of this sub-chapter.
      (7)   Base flood elevation. This code's protection standard is the base
flood according to the best data available to the State Water Survey's Flood
Plain Information Repository. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, he or she may finance the detailed engineering study needed to
replace existing data with better data, and submit it to the state water
survey.
         (a)   The base flood elevation for SFHA's shall be as delineated on
the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study and dated October 15,
1981.
         (b)   The base flood elevation for each SFHA delineated as an AH Zone/
AO Zone shall be that elevation/depth delineated on the flood insurance rate
map of the county.
         (c)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining SFHA's
delineated as an A Zone on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map/Flood Insurance Rate
Map shall be the 100-year flood depth calculated to the formulas presented in
Depth and Frequency of Floods in Illinois, published by the U. S. Geological
Survey, 1976.
      (8)   Watercourse standards. The Zoning Administrator shall notify
adjacent communities and the Illinois Department of Transportation, Division of
Water Resources and the Federal Insurance Administration before any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse. The flood carrying capacity within the altered
or relocated portion of any watercourse shall be maintained.
      (9)   Reports and record.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall provide the County Board, the
Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water Resources and the
Federal Insurance Administration with an annual report on forms as provided the
county with Federal Insurance Administration.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain the records of the first
floor elevations, flood proofing certificates, all variance documents required
by § 1910.6 (a) (5) and (6) of the Rules and Regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program permit applications, and all other records required the
Federal Insurance Administration.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvement standards.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements to structures
located in an A Zone shall.
         (a)   Be designed or modified and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         (b)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage;
         (c)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage to other properties;
         (d)   Have all structural components below the regulatory flood
elevation designed to be water tight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and such structural components shall be designed to resist
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads, and the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   (a)   The first floor or basement of any structure including
residences, to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered or moved within
an A Zone District shall be constructed on fill with the finished surface of
these floors at or above a point two feet above the regulatory flood elevation
or flood profile shown on or attached to the flood plain district map for the
particular area. The fill shall be at or above a point one foot above the
regulatory flood elevation for the particular area and the fill shall extend at
such elevation of at least 15 feet beyond the limits of any structure or
building erected thereon. However, no use shall be constructed which will
adversely affect the capacity of channels or flood ways of any tributary to the
main stream, drainage ditch or any other drainage facility or system.
         (b)   Where existing streets or utilities are at elevations which make
compliance with division (C)(2)(a) herein, impracticable or in other special
circumstances, the Board of Appeals may recommend other flood proofing or
building elevation measures in accordance with §
93.180(A)(5) in lieu of fill, provided the first floor of the building is at or
above a point two feet above the regulatory flood level for the particular
area. No permit under this section shall be issued where the ground adjoining a
building or structure designed for human habitation is more than two feet below
the regulatory flood elevation or subject to flood velocities greater than four
feet per second for the regulatory flood.
      (3)   Commercial structures within an A Zone District generally must be
constructed on fill with no first floor or basement floors point two feet above
the regulatory flood elevation. Accessory and uses, such as railroad tracks and
yards, parking lots may be lower elevations. However, a permit for such
facilities to be used by the general public shall not be granted, in the
absence of a flood warning system, if the area is inundated to a depth greater
than two feet or subject to flood velocities greater than four feet per second
upon the occurrence of the regulatory flood.
      (4)   Manufacturing and industrial buildings, structures, and appurtenant
works within an A Zone District shall be flood-proofed in accordance with §
93.180(A)(5) to two feet above the regulatory flood elevations. Measures shall
be taken to minimize interference with normal plant operations especially for
streams having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as
yards and parking lots may be lower elevations subject to requirements set out
in §
93.179(B).
      (5)   (a)   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or
potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity.
            1.   For development proposals located in an identified flood way
or within a riverine SFHA where the floodway has not yet been identified, the
following rule shall apply: The Building Official shall review the development
plans to discern if:
               a.   A new obstruction to floodflows would be created.
               b.   The project will involve a channel crossing such as a
bridge or pipeline.
               c.   The project will modify the shape of the channel.
            2.   If any of these three situations will result from the project,
the applicant shall be required to obtain a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources, Division of Water Resources, issued pursuant to Ill. Rev.
Stat., Ch. 19, § 70. The building official shall not issue a development permit
unless the applicant has obtained either a § 70 permit or a waiver of a permit
required from the Division of Water Resources.
            3.   For development proposals located in a flood fringe, AO Zone
or AH Zone, identified as such on a SFHA map or in a lake-front flood plain,
ponding area, area of sheet flow or other SFHA not subject to over bank
flooding from an identified channel, the requirement of this division (C)(5)(a)
shall not apply.
         (b)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE, unless such materials are
stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of division (G)(3) of this section.
         (c)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste
disposal systems may be permitted; providing all manholes or other aboveground
openings located below the FPE are watertight.
      (6)   No mobile home may be placed on a new site located within an
identified floodway.
   (D)   Mobile home standards.
      (1)   All mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions located in an A
Zone District shall file evacuation plans indicating vehicular access and
escape routes, including mobile home hauler routes, with the appropriate
disaster preparedness authorities.
      (2)   All homes to be placed on a site located in an A Zone District
shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor elevated two feet above the regulatory
flood elevation;
         (b)   In the instance of elevation on piling, have all piling
foundations placed in stable soil no more than ten feet apart, and
reinforcement shall be provided for piers more than six feet above ground;
         (c)   Have lots of large enough permit steps to the mobile home, and
have adequate surface drainage on all sides of the structure;
         (d)   Be placed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of
the structure due to flooding;
         (e)   Be anchored according to the following specifications:
            1.   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four
corners of the mobile home with two additional ties per side at intermediate
locations and mobile homes less than 50 feet long shall require one additional
tie per side;
            2.   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the mobile home
with five additional ties per side at intermediate points and mobile homes less
than 50 feet long shall require four additional ties per side;
            3.   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of
carrying 4,800 pounds; and
            4.   Any additions to the mobile home shall be similarly anchored.
         (f)   On holding a public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and
on the final action by the County Board of Madison County, a person who is
granted a special use permit for the placement of a mobile home within a flood
hazard area shall be required to sign the following agreement for removal prior
to making application for the building permit for the mobile home this
agreement shall be binding and will apply only to the mobile homes in flood
hazard areas. Stipulations will be added to the recommendation of the Zoning
Board of Appeals to cover this removal and all requirements that need to be
met.
   AGREEMENT
WE, THE UNDERSIGNED, being the Owner of Record of the property in question and/
or the authorized agent of the owner of record, hereby agree to remove the
mobile home, on the property as described on the attached legal description,
when duly notified by the Director of the Madison County Emergency Service and
Disaster Agency, of an impending disaster. Once notified the manufactured home
must be removed within seventy-two (72) hours by the owner of record of the
property in question and/or his or her authorized agent. The mobile home will
be moved to the following
location:                                    , and the owner of the mobile home
hereby certifies that the owner of the property in question has given his or
her permission.
Failure on the part of the owner of record of the property in question and/or
his or her authorized agent, to comply with this directive will result in the
Madison County Building and Zoning Department having the mobile home physically
removed from the property by any means available to them. This shall be done
under the directive of the Administrator and/or the Building and Zoning
Committee of the County Board.
The property owner will be responsible for all expenses incurred in this
removal of the mobile home to a location to be selected by the Building and
Zoning Committee of the County Board. The location is as follows:
Upon the issuance of an ALL CLEAR ORDER by the Madison County Director of the
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency that it is safe to return, these
expenses will have to be paid, prior to the mobile home being released and/or
authorized agents part to comply will result in a fine of up to $200 being
levied plus any costs incurred by the County.
Madison County will be hold free from any damages incurred in this removal of
the mobile home, under the above noted conditions.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
DATED:                            
SIGNED BEFORE ME THIS             DAY OF                    , YEAR OF
                      .
NOTARY PUBLIC
   (E)   Utility standards.
      (1)   Public utility facilities, railroad tracks, and bridges within an A
Zone District shall be designed to minimize increase in flood elevations and
shall be compatible with any local comprehensive flood plain development plan.
Protection to the regulatory flood elevation shall be provided where failure or
interruption of these public facilities would result in danger to the public
health or safety or where such facilities are essential to the orderly
functioning of the area. Where failure or interruption of service would not
endanger life or health, a lesser degree of protection may be provided for
minor auxiliary roads, railroads or utilities.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements to utilities
located in an A Zone shall provide that:
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems. New
construction of, or additions and modifications to existing treatment plants
shall be flood proofed in accordance with §
93.180(A)(5) to a point two feet above the regulatory flood;
         (b)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into the floodwaters. Water or sewer systems
shall be installed at such elevation as to be compatible with the first flood
and basement floor elevations required in division (C)(2)(a) herein;
         (c)   There shall be no disposal of garbage or solid waste materials
within flood plain areas except upon issuance of a special use permit at sites
approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and subject to the
requirements of this section. All new and replacement on site waste disposal
systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them
during flooding.
   (F)    Storage or processing of materials. Storage or processing of
materials within an A Zone District that are buoyant, flammable, explosive or
in times of flooding could be injurious to human, animal or plant life, shall
be at or above a point two feet above the regulatory flood elevation for the
particular area or flood proofed to the same level in compliance with §
93.180.
   (G)   Subdivision and other development standards. All subdivision and other
development located in an A Zone District shall provide that:
      (1)   All subdivision and other developments proposals shall be designed
to minimize flood damage to the proposed subdivision or development site as
well as other properties;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems shall be located elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage shall be provided so as to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
      (4)   For any proposed subdivision or new development greater than 50
lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, the applicant shall show the
regulatory flood elevation data for each lot or platted parcel. If the
regulatory flood elevation data is not available the applicant shall compute
and provide this information for each lot or parcel platted greater than 50
lots or five acres, whichever is less.
   (H)   Flood control works. Flood control works within an A Zone District
shall require a special use permit and shall comply with state law.
      (1)   The minimum height and design of any dikes, levees, floodwalls or
similar structural works shall be based upon the flood profile of the regional
flood confined between the structures subject to the following:
         (a)   For urban areas the minimum height and design of structural
works shall be at least three feet above the elevation of the regulatory flood,
as confined by structures;
         (b)   Modifications and additions to existing structural works shall
assure that the work will provide a means of decreasing the flood damage
potential in the area. Any existing structural work, which potentially
threatens public health or safety, shall be modified or reconstructed in order
to meet the standards contained herein within a period of six months of the
effective date of this zoning code.
      (2)   Flood protection elevations and flood ways limits which reflect
proposed measures for flood control shall not be effective until such measures
are constructed and operative unless the proposed measures will increase flood
heights, in which event, the regulatory flood protection elevations and flood
plain limits shall reflect the anticipated increases.
      (3)   Detailed plans shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning
Committee for any mew developments placed on the flood plain landward from
dikes, floodwalls, and similar structures. The plans must provide for ponding
areas or other measures to protect against flooding from internal drainage or
from seep water.
   (I)   Disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection required by
the zoning code is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based
on engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare
occasions or the flood heights may be increased by artificial or natural
causes. This zoning code does not imply that development either inside or
outside of areas designated as an A Zone District will be free from flooding or
damage. This zoning code does not create liability on the part of the county or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on the zoning code or any administrative decision made lawfully there under.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.039 DK DARWIN-KARNAK OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. This overlay zone district is created to reflect exiting
physical resource's advantages and limitations within the county. All areas
identified as comprising this district has a common characteristic of wetness
limitations. All areas designated on the zone district map have periodic high
water tables, which can cause wet basements, seriously interfere with the
operation of subsoil sewage disposal facilities, create frost heave related
structural problems. These areas generally have a variety of drainage problem
and may incur localized ponding problems.
   (B)   Conditions of use. In granting any permit the Zoning Administrator,
with the approval of the Building and Zoning Committee, may require:
      (1)   That basements be prohibited, but if permitted shall at least be
constructed with footing drains and sump pumps or the area will be filled with
an earthen material to a depth that will place the basement floor at least two
feet above the highest level of the water table in the natural soil.
         (a)   That to determine the permeability of earthen fill after it is
in place, the applicant shall submit results of at least percolation tests.
         (b)   Any other requirements necessary to protect the public health,
safety or general welfare.
      (2)   That the sewage disposal seepage field will lie at least four feet
above the highest level of the water table in the natural soil.
      (3)   Anchoring of water and sewer lines to resist flotation.
      (4)   Subsurface drain tiles or curtain drains.
      (5)   That drainage from the site shall be reviewed using the standard of
the county subdivision regulations, §
92.032.
   (C)   Permitted and special uses. This Darwin-Karnak Overlay District
provides development controls in addition to those required by the primary
zoning district (Agricultural, Conservation, Residential, Business,
Manufacturing) and shall be used in combination with those districts. Within
the limits of the Wet Soils Overlay District, all requirements of the primary
district apply to this section.
      (1)   All uses permitted in the primary zone district which do not
require a basement or subsoil sewage disposal system are permitted.
      (2)   Any use requiring a basement or subsoil sewage disposal system
shall be a special use.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.040 GP GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Groundwater Protection Overlay District is created to
protect groundwater recharge areas for public water supplies. These areas are
subject to groundwater pollution from various sources of contamination. The
regulations set forth in this section will preserve the quality and quantity of
groundwater resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for
the present and future generations, and to protect and preserve groundwater
resources currently in use and those aquifers having a potential for future use
as a public water supply.
   (B)   Definitions.
      CONTAINMENT DEVICE. A device, which is designed to contain an
unauthorized release, retain it for the cleanup, and prevent released materials
from penetrating into the ground.
      GROUNDWATER. Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
      SITE. Any location, place, tract of land, or facilities, including but
not limited to buildings, and improvements used for purposes subject to
regulations or control by the Act or regulations thereunder.
      UNIT. Any device, mechanism, equipment, or area (exclusive of land
utilized only for agricultural production).
   (C)   General provisions.
      (1)   All areas subject to regulations. All areas designated on the zone
district map as a GP Groundwater Protection area shall be subject to the
regulations set forth in this section.
      (2)   Regulations in addition to existing district regulations. All
regulations in this section shall apply in addition to existing zoning district
regulations, and to future rezoning of property in these areas.
      (3)   Most restrictive. Where the regulations of this section impose a
greater restriction then that found elsewhere in this ordinance, the provisions
of this section shall govern.
      (4)   Nonconforming use. Any nonconforming site or unit, existing upon
adoption of this amendment, which does not conform to the regulations set forth
in this section may continue. Any changes in the use of property must be done
in full compliance with this ordinance, with the exception of fuel storage
tanks for agricultural property, which may be replaced provided that the
capacity of the tank does not exceed what previously existed.
   (D)   Ground Water Protection Zones and regulations. The following
groundwater protection zone regulations are established:
      (1)   Zone 1 (GP-1). Area designated on zoning map as being within 400
feet of an existing or permitted community water supply well.
         (a)   All storage of substances listed in Exhibit 1 must have a
containment device in conformity with division (E).
         (b)   No storage or treatment of any hazardous or special waste not
generated at the site is permitted.
         (c)   No disposal, land treating, surface impounding or piling of any
hazardous or special waste generated at the site.
         (d)   No land filling, land treating, or surface impounding of waste
other than landscape waste and construction and demolition debris.
         (e)   Storage of hazardous substances is limited 75,000 pounds above
ground or 7,500 pounds below ground.
         (f)   No abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds.
         (g)   No drainage wells.
         (h)   No injection wells (including closed loop heat pump wells).
         (i)   No excavation of sand, gravel, or stone.
         (j)   Petroleum products (not specifically listed as a hazardous
substance) is limited to 25,000 gallons stored above ground or more than 500
gallons below ground.
         (k)   No storage or accumulation of pesticides, fertilizers, or road
oils for purposes of commercial application or for distribution to retail sales
outlets.
         (l)   Not more than 50,000 pounds of any deicing agent may be stored
or accumulated on site.
         (m)   No septic tanks are permitted.
      (2)   Zone 2 (GP-2). Area designated on zoning map as being within 1,000
feet of an existing or permitted community water supply well.
         (a)   All storage of substances listed in Exhibit 1 must have a
containment device in conformity with division (E)
         (b)   No storage of treatment of any hazardous or special waste not
generated at the site is permitted.
         (c)   No disposal, land treating, surface impounding or piling of any
hazardous or special waste generated at the site.
         (d)   No disposal on site of municipal waste other than landscape
waste and construction demolition debris.
         (e)   Storage of hazardous substances limited to 75,000 pounds above
ground or 7,500 pounds below ground.
         (f)   No abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds.
         (g)   No drainage wells.
         (h)   No injection wells (including closed loop heat pump wells).
         (i)   No excavation of sand, gravel, or stone.
         (j)   No septic tanks.
      (3)   Zone 3 (GP-3). Area designated on zoning map as being within the
five-year groundwater capture zone.
         (a)   All storage of substances listed in Exhibit 1 must have a
containment device in conformity with paragraph E.
         (b)   No abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds.
         (c)   No drainage wells.
   (E)   Regulated substances. All facilities in GP Groundwater Protection
Zones or uses which store, utilize, handle, treat or produce a regulated
substance, as listed in Exhibit 1, must comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   Containment devices. The owner/operator of a facility must provide
containment devices adequate in size to contain onsite any unauthorized release
of regulated substances from any area where these substances are either stored,
handled, treated, used, or produced. Containment devices shall prevent such
substances from penetrating into the ground. Design requirements for
containment devices include:
         (a)   The containment device shall be large enough to contain 110% of
the volume of the container in cases where a single container is used to store,
handle, treat, use, or produce a regulated substance. In cases where multiple
containers are used, the containment device shall be large enough to contain
150% of the volume fee the largest container or 10% of the aggregate volume of
all containers, whichever is greater.
         (b)   All containment devices shall be constructed of materials of
sufficient thickness, density, and composition to prevent structural weakening
of the containment device as a result of contact with any regulated substance.
If coatings are used to provide chemical resistance for containment devices,
they shall also be resistant to the expected abrasion and impact conditions.
Containment devices shall be capable of containing any unauthorized release for
at least the maximum anticipated period sufficient to allow detection and
removal of the release.
         (c)   If the containment device is open to rainfall, then it shall be
able to accommodate the volume of precipitation that could enter the
containment device during a 24-hour, 100-year storm, in addition to the volume
of the regulated substance storage required in division (E)(1)(a) above.
         (d)   Containment devices shall be constructed so that a collection
system can be installed to accumulate, temporarily store, permit detection of
the presence of, and permit removal of any storm runoff or regulated substance.
         (e)   Containment devices shall include monitoring procedures or
technology capable of detecting the presence of a regulated substance within 24
hours following a release.
      (2)   Plan required. A regulated substances management plan indicating
procedures to be followed to prevent, control, collect, and dispose of any
unauthorized release of a regulated substance shall be required.
   (F)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall commence any construction,
substantial improvement, or any other developments in areas located in a GP
Groundwater Protection zone without first obtaining a groundwater protection
permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Administrator shall not issue a
permit unless the construction, substantial improvement, or development
complies with the provisions of this code.
      (2)   The groundwater protection permit shall include at a minimum:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of owner/operator.
         (b)   Property address, legal description and tax identification
number of the facility.
         (c)   The names and volumes of all regulated substances that are
store, handled, treated, used, or produced at the facility being permitted and
quantities.
         (d)   A detailed description of the activities conducted at the
facility that involve the storage, handling, treatment, use or production of
regulated substances in quantities.
         (e)   A description of the containment devices used to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
         (f)   A description of the procedures for inspection and maintenance
of containment devices.
         (g)   A description of the method for disposal of regulated
substances.
         (h)   A copy of a site plan showing the location of the facility and
its property boundaries and the locations where regulated substances are
stored, handled, treated, used, produced and the location of each containment
device.
   (G)   Reporting. The permittee shall report to the Zoning Administrator 15
days after any changes in a facility including:
      (1)   The storage, handling, treatment, use, or processing of new
regulated substances;
      (2)   Changes in monitoring procedures; or
      (3)   The replacement or repair of any part of a facility that is related
to the regulated substance(s).
   (H)   Exempt activities. The following are exempt from the requirements of
this section.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, provided that no nonfarm home business is
operated on the premises.
      (2)   Fuel tanks and fluid reservoirs attached to a private or commercial
motor vehicle and used directly in the operation of that vehicle.
      (3)   The activities of construction repairing or maintaining any
facility or improvement on lands within the GP Groundwater Protection Zone.
      (4)   Cleanups, monitoring and/or studies undertaken under supervision of
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or other state regulatory Agency
or the United States Environmental Protection agency.
      (5)   Activities specifically regulated under 35 ILL. Adm. Code 601.615,
616 and 617; 8 Ill Adm. Code 255 and 256 (Regulations for secondary containment
for agricultural pesticide and fertilizer facilities) and 8 Ill. Adm. Code 257
(cooperative groundwater protection programs for agricultural chemical
facilities within appropriate setback zones).
      (6)   The storage and handling of regulated substances for the resale in
their original unopened containers of five gallons or 40 pounds or less shall
be exempt from the permit requirement of this section.
      (7)   Minimums usage of regulated substances: Facilities that use, store,
or handle regulated substances in quantities of five gallons or forty pounds or
less of any one regulated substances, and in aggregate quantities of twenty
gallons or one hundred pounds or less of all regulated substances, shall be
exempt from the permit requirement of this section. Regulated substances
intended to be used to maintain and operate farm equipment may be stored in
quantities not exceeding 55 gallons per container, provided however, that the
containers are stored on an impervious surface in an enclosed building.
      (8)   Public interest emergency use and storage of regulated substances.
      (9)   Regulated substances used by or for a municipality in wastewater
treatment process.
      (10)   Fueling of equipment not licensed for street use, provided that
such fueling activities are conducted in a containment area that is designed
and maintained to prevent leakage or other violations of this chapter.
      (11)   If the owner is granted an exception by the Illinois Pollution
Control Board, such owner shall not be subject to this chapter to the same
extent that such owner is not subject to the Groundwater Protection Act.
      (12)   If the owner is issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the
Illinois Protection Agency, such owner shall not be subject to this ordinance
to the same extent that such owner is not subject to the Groundwater Protection
Act.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 93.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
93.050 through
93.064 is to define general development regulations that apply in all zoning
districts. These regulations apply to all development within the appropriate
jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.051 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   All agricultural, conservation, and residential districts.
      (1)   Any attached accessory building or structure shall be considered as
a part of the principal building.
      (2)   The maximum height of any accessory buildings shall be as follows:
         (a)   Twenty-five feet for agricultural and conservation districts.
         (b)   Twenty feet for residential districts.
      (3)   An accessory structure shall be:
         (a)   A minimum distance of five feet from any other building on the
property.
         (b)   In residential districts, a minimum distance of five feet from
the side lot line and seven and one-half feet from the rear lot line. In
Conservation and Agricultural Districts, a minimum of 15 feet from the side and
rear lot lines. In any zoning district, accessory structures must be at least
25 feet from private roadway easements.
         (c)   Not in the front yard, except on an Agricultural zoned tract of
land two acres or larger in size. In this case, an accessory building can be
built in front of the home, or a new home may be located behind an existing
accessory building. All accessory structures in an “A” Agriculture District
shall be 50 feet from the front property line.
         (d)   On a corner lot, an accessory building may be located in the
side yard adjoining the street, but must meet the primary structure front yard
setbacks contained within the specific district to prevent obstructing view
from the roadway, and must be behind the front line of the primary structure.
         (e)   Not in excess of 30% coverage of the rear yard.
   (B)   Manufacturing Districts and all Business Districts.
      (1)   The maximum height of any accessory building shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   An accessory structure shall meet the setback requirements required
in the conditions of use sections of each zoning district in §§
93.020 through
93.039 and additionally, shall not be in a required front yard.
      (3)   No accessory building may exceed the height of the principal
building.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.052 BUILDING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Accessory building.
      (1)   No accessory building shall be used for residential purposes except
as otherwise permitted per the Madison County Zoning and Building Codes.
      (2)   A building permit may be issued for an accessory structure on a
tract of ground with no primary structure if the applicant concurrently submits
a building permit application for a primary structure on the same tract of
ground.
      (3)   On non-urban tracts of land in the Agricultural District, prior to
issuance of a permit for an accessory structure intended for agriculture
purposes on a tract of ground with no primary structure, the applicant shall
complete an agricultural exemption form confirming that the accessory structure
will only be used for agriculture purposes.
      (4)   In the Agricultural and Residential Districts, the applicant shall
submit an affidavit demonstrating that the structure will not be utilized for
commercial or residential use unless otherwise authorized via a zoning
certificate.
      (5)   Modular homes are not permitted as accessory structures.
   (B)   Access to public street.  Except as otherwise provided for in this
zoning code, every building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or
parcel of land which abuts upon a public street, private street, or private
lane, provided regulations for private streets or private lanes, as per the
Madison County Subdivision Code, are met.
   (C)   Bulk of building. All buildings and structures shall conform to the
building regulations established herein for the district in which each building
shall be located, except that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances shall be
permitted to exceed the maximum height provisions when erected in accordance
with this code and all other applicable ordinances of the county.
   (D)   Emergency and temporary occupancy. No temporary structure (including
mobile homes) shall be used or occupied for any residential, commercial or
industrial use except as specifically permitted or required by this zoning
code. However, the Building and Zoning Committee may, upon application
therefore, permit the use for up to one year, subject to such conditions as the
Building and Zoning Committee deems to be compatible with the character of the
area in which the structure is located in compliance with reasonable
consideration of the general health, safety and welfare. Such occupancy shall
be contingent on an emergency resulting from fire, explosions, or disaster, or
in conjunction with construction, demolition or related conditions.
   (E)   Building, maximum height and exceptions. The height limitations of
this zoning code shall not apply to chimneys, water tanks, silos, parapet
walls, antennas or necessary mechanical appurtenances usually carried above the
roof level and structure of a similar nature.
   (F)   Building, one principal building per lot, yards. No part of an area,
frontage or yard required for any lot, building or use for the purpose of
complying with this zoning code shall be included as an area, frontage or yard
for another lot, building or use. Except as otherwise specifically provided in
this zoning code, only one principal building shall be permitted on a lot.
   (G)   Building, use and bulk. No building, structure or premises shall be
used or occupied and no buildings or parts thereof or other structures shall be
constructed, erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged
or altered and no building shall be occupied by more families or persons than
prescribed for the building, structure or premises for the district in which it
is located and as otherwise regulated herein, except in conformity with this
zoning code.
   (H)   Materials. No primary structure intended for residential use may have
wall exteriors constructed with vertical metal panels, excluding structures
within “A” Agriculture Districts on tracts of land two acres or greater in size
and approved mobile homes.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2017-02,
passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.053 LOT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Lot, corner. For any corner lot, the front yard area shall be
determined by which street is listed in the address of the property. The other
yard area with road frontage shall be considered a side yard, but shall comply
with the primary structure front yard setbacks contained within the specific
district to prevent obstructing view from the roadway.
   (B)   Lot, contiguous parcels. When two or more parcels of land, each of
which lacks adequate area or minimum dimensions to qualify for permitted use
under the requirements of the district in which they are located are
contiguous, and are held in one ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot
for such use.
   (C)   Lot, division of. No zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into two or
more zoning lots unless all zoning lots resulting from each division shall
conform with all the applicable regulations of the zoning district in which the
property is located.
   (D)   Lot, frontage requirements. Any lot in any district shall have minimum
frontage abutting a public roadway, private lane, or private street of at least
40 feet. The only exception to these requirements may be in a Planned Unit
Development.
   (E)   Lot, record of. A parcel of land, whether subdivided and/or otherwise
legally described and recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter, or
approved by the county as a lot subsequent to such date and which is occupied
by or intended for occupancy by one principal building or principal use
together with any accessory building and such open spaces as required by this
chapter and having its principal frontage upon a street.
   (F)   Lot, through. For any through lot, the front yard area shall be
determined by which street is listed in the address of the property. The other
yard area with road frontage shall be considered the rear yard and shall comply
with the rear yard setbacks contained within the specific district.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020) Penalty,
see §
93.999
§ 93.054 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definition. A nonconforming use is a use of land, buildings, or
structures within the county that does not conform (does not meet the
regulations of this zoning code in some way). A nonconforming use, buildings,
or structures may often have detrimental effect on the land use around it, such
as increased traffic on residential streets, not enough parking space, the
emission of noxious fumes, the creation of loud noises or a depressing effect
on property values. These regulations are intended to minimize or eliminate the
existing or potential problems created by nonconforming uses, buildings, or
structures.
   (B)   Continuous of nonconforming use and structures. Any nonconforming
building, structure, mobile home, or use existing at the time of the enactment
of this zoning code may be temporarily continued even though the building,
structure or use does not conform to the provisions of this zoning code for the
district in which it is located and whenever a district shall be changed
hereafter, the then existing lawful use may be continued, subject to the
provisions of this zoning code.
      (1)   Any legal nonconforming building, or structure, or land use may be
temporarily continued in use provided there is no structural change other than
normal permitted herein.
      (2)   Any nonconforming building, structure, mobile home, trailer or land
use shall be discontinued within five years from the adoption date of this
zoning code. This time period may be extended by five years if the owner can
show that the nonconforming use is in sound condition and is not causing a
detrimental effect on surrounding properties.
   (C)   Change or extension of nonconforming use. A nonconforming use or
structure shall not be extended but the extension of a conforming use to any
portion of a nonconforming building shall not be deemed the extension of the
nonconforming use.
      (1)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to use of the same or
greater nonconformity with the district regulations of the district in which is
located and then changed to a use of a greater conformity shall not thereafter
be changed to a use of lesser conformity; however, in the M Manufacturing
Districts a nonconforming use shall not be changed to any nonconforming
residential use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use shall not be altered, extended or restored so
as to displace any conforming use.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2016- 02, passed 2-16-2016; Am. Ord.
2020-02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.055 ABANDONMENT OR DISCONTINUANCE.
   When any nonconforming use of a building, structure, or part thereof has
been discontinued for a period of six consecutive months this use shall not
thereafter be resumed and any future use of the premises shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this zoning code, provided that the nonconforming use
may be resumed when the owner, during the period of discontinuance, has been
actively attempting to continue the nonconforming use.
   (A)   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a
nonconforming use for a period of three months shall constitute abandonment,
and the premises shall not thereafter be used in a nonconforming manner.
   (B)   Proof of fact in writing must be furnished to the Zoning Administrator
by the applicant to establish intent not to abandon.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.056 REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AND ALTERATION.
   (A)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance of a nonconforming building shall not
be deemed an extension of the nonconforming building and shall be permitted.
   (B)   No structural alteration shall be made in building or other structure
containing a nonconforming use except in the following situations:
      (1)   When the alteration is required by law.,
      (2)   When the alteration will actually result in elimination of the
nonconforming use.
      (3)   When a building in a residence district containing residential
nonconforming uses may be altered in way to improve livability, provided no
structural alternation shall be made which would increase the number of
dwelling units or bulk of the building.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.057 RESTORATION.
   If a building or structure that is nonconforming or containing a
nonconforming use, is damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of 50% or
more of its value at the time, or if a repetitive loss to an existing building
occurs as defined in §
93.006, the building or other structure can be rebuilt or used thereafter only
for a conforming use and in compliance with the provisions of the district in
which it is located. In the event the damage or destruction is less than 50% of
its value, based upon the prevailing costs, and is not a repetitive loss, the
building may then be restored to its original condition and the occupancy or
use of the building may be continued which existed at the time of the partial
destruction.
   (A)   In the event that the Zoning Administrator's estimate of the extent of
damage or fair market value is not acceptable to the applicant for the building
permit to repair or reconstruct the building or structure, the applicant may
appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   In any event, restoration or repair of the building or other structure
must be started within a period of six months from the date of damage or
destruction and diligently prosecuted to completion.
   (C)   Conditions: The Zoning Administrator may issue, or cause to be issued,
a building permit if the subject matter thereof is otherwise permitted by the
provisions of this subchapter, provided that the Building and Zoning Committee
may impose such conditions and requirements to the issuance of the permit as
are reasonably necessary to promote compatibility of the nonconforming use or
building with its immediate neighborhood and to protect adjacent property from
any adverse effects of the nonconforming use.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.058 CONVERSION TO SPECIAL USE.
   A nonconforming use may be made a special use by granting a special use
permit in conformity with the provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.059 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS, GENERAL.
   (A)   Grading. Any lot shall be properly graded for drainage and maintained
in good condition, free from trash and debris.
   (B)   Noise. Refer to Madison County Noise Pollution Act,
Chapter 53.
   (C)   Air. No obnoxious, toxic or corrosive matter, smoke, fumes or gases
shall be discharged into the air or across the boundaries of any lot in such
concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare or to case injury or damage or property or business.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.060 PERMITTED USE AND SPECIAL USE.
   When a use or accessory use is not specifically listed in the sections
devoted to permitted use, special use or prohibited use for a particular
classification of zoning district, it shall be assumed that the use is
expressly prohibited in such a district unless:
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator and the Building and Zoning Committee issue a
written decision determining that the use is similar to and is compatible with
the uses listed in the particular district. The written decision shall become a
permanent public record for subsequent administrative purposes, and the use
shall be considered as being a permitted use or accessory use as if the use had
been specifically listed in the particular classification of zoning district.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator and the Building and Zoning Committee issue a
written decision determining that the use may be necessary or desirable, but
may have a potentially harmful influence on permitted uses in the particular
classification of zoning districts. The written decision shall become a
permanent public record for subsequent administrative purposes, and the use
shall be considered as being a special use as if the use had been specifically
listed in the particular classification of zoning districts.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.061 SEWERS, INDIVIDUAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. In any district where an individual private sewage system is
used in place of public facilities, the minimum size lot area, width and depth
shall be subject to the approval of the Building and Zoning Committe of the
County Board but shall not be less than 40,000 square feet. When doubt exists
with the Building and Zoning Committee as to the adequacy of the soil structure
of the lot to properly accommodate an individual sewage system, the Committee
may require the property owner to obtain a written opinion as to the size of
lot required for an individual sewage system to operate on the lot according to
safe health standards and further provide that the lot size shall not endanger
or compromise reasonable and similar use of adjacent properties. If the
findings of the soils scientist or engineer indicate that larger lots are
necessary, the Committee may require lot size in excess of the minimum area
defined previously in this division.
   (B)   Design. The design of an individual sewage disposal system shall take
into consideration location with respect to wells or other sources of water
supply topography, existing individual sewage disposal systems on adjacent
properties, water table, soil characteristics, available area, expected volume
of domestic sewage, and shall comply with all applicable county regulations as
well as those of the Illinois Department of Public Health. The Committee may
prohibit installation of sewage disposal facilities requiring a soil absorption
system where such systems will not function due to high ground water, flooding
or unsuitable soil characteristics.
   (C)   Design standards. The following design standards shall also apply:
      (1)   No part of any drain field shall be within 100 feet of any well,
lake, stream or other body of water.
      (2)   No septic tank shall be smaller in size than 1,000-gallons’ liquid
capacity. For mobile homes a 750-gallon septic tank will be permitted.
      (3)   Drain fields shall not be allowed in areas over 12% slope.
      (4)   Drain fields shall not be constructed in areas where the ground
water table (permanent, fluctuating or seasonal) may be less than four feet
below the bottom of the trench or bed.
      (5)   Septic tanks and subsurface seepage fields or buried sand filters
shall not be constructed in an area where there is less than 30 feet of soil
between the lowest point in the seepage system and the top of a limestone
formation.
      (6)   Private sewage plats for subdivisions: Sewage plat shall be
required for all new subdivisions of five lots or greater that are not on
sewers. Such plat shall be prepared and submitted by a licensed engineer under
the engineers seal. Each plat shall include: Soil borings will be used and
locations noted on private sewage plat to determine subdivision lot suitability
for subsurface seepage systems. The number of borings required should be
sufficient in number to satisfy the engineer that subsurface seepage type
systems shall work on all lots. Each private sewage plat will identify a
location on each lot that will support a subsurface private sewage system. The
type of private sewage system must also be identified on the private sewage
plat. In the event a lot is found incapable of supporting a subsurface private
sewage system and an above ground discharge type system is proposed, a
determination under the engineers seal must be included that indicates the
location of the proposed discharge and that the operation or use of the above
ground discharge system will not create pooling or a nuisance on adjoining lot
(s). A statement shall be included on the applicability of NPDES permits for
the above ground discharge of any private sewage system proposed.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.062 PERCOLATION TESTS.
   (A)   Required. Percolation tests may be required to be conducted in the
presence of a designated county official and shall be required in all areas
where septic tanks or other soil absorption systems proposed. Where grading is
to be done, these tests shall be made in the soil after a finished grade has
been constructed. At least three separate percolation tests shall be performed
at the site of each proposed disposal area. More than two percolation tests
will be required when the soil structure may vary or where large disposal areas
are required. Preliminary tests for subdividing large tracts shall be made in
the amount of one test hole per acre or as prescribed by this Department.
Percolation tests shall not be made in frozen ground. The test shall not be
made in filled ground unless the soil has been compacted or allowed to settle
to the satisfaction of this Department.
   (B)   Procedure for conducting percolation tests. Percolation tests shall be
performed in accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Type of test hole. Dig or bore a hole with horizontal dimensions of
approximately four or six inches in diameter to the depth of the proposed
seepage field or seepage bed.
      (2)   Preparation of a test hole. Carefully scratch the bottom and sides
of the hole with a knife blade or sharp pointed instrument to provide a natural
soil interface into which water may percolate. Remove all loose material from
the hole. Add two inches of coarse gravel to protect the bottom from scouring
and sediment.
      (3)   Saturation and swelling of the soil. Pre soak the hole four hours
before conducting the test by carefully filling the hole with clear water to
the ground surface. At the time of the test, refill the hole to a level 12
inches above the gravel. Allow the level to fall six inches and then commence
measuring the drop in water level at 30-minutes’ intervals for the last six
inches of seepage. The results of the percolation tests shall be given to the
homeowner in writing or shall be retained by the contractor for at least five
years.
   (C)   Recording of results. Record results of all tests as the total minutes
required for the last six inches of seepage. The results of the percolation
tests shall be given to the homeowner in writing or shall be retained by the
contractor for at least five years.
   (D)   Soil classification systems. In areas where soil maps, soil charts,
and soil descriptions are available, information regarding the type of soil
present may be used as a guide.
   (E)   Calculation of seepage field area required. Subsurface seepage fields,
if found to be acceptable by percolation tests, shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with §
93.062(F), (G), (H).
   (F)   Subsurface seepage field; dosage rate.
                           Effective absorption area Maximum rate of sewage
Time required for water to required in bottom of     application (gallons per
fall six inches (minutes)  seepage fields (square    square foot per day) for
                           feet per bedroom)         subsurface seepage fields,
                                                     seepage beds
                           Effective absorption area Maximum rate of sewage
Time required for water to required in bottom of     application (gallons per
fall six inches (minutes)  seepage fields (square    square foot per day) for
                           feet per bedroom)         subsurface seepage fields,
                                                     seepage beds
30                         130                       2.2
60                         165                       1.6
90                         210                       1.3
120                        235                       1.1
150                        265                       1
180                        290                       0.9
240                        320                       0.8
300                        350                       0.7
360                        385                       0.6
 
      (1)   Absorption area is figured as trench bottom area.
      (2)   Over 180 is unsuitable for seepage pits.
      (3)   Over 360 is unsuitable for absorption systems.
   (G)   Minimum standard for seepage field construction.
      The following are minimum standards.
 
Seepage Field Construction Standard Minimum
Individual lines, maximum length    100 feet
Trench bottom, minimum width        18 inches
Trench bottom, maximum width        36 inches
Field tile, minimum diameter        4 inches
Field tile lines, maximum slope     Level
Variation of the above requirements is subject to approval by the department.
 
   (H)   Seepage field construction minimum standard.
      (1)   The following are minimum standards.
 
Width of trench at Recommended depth  Center to center     Absorption area per
bottom (inches)    of trench (inches) spacing tile lines*  lineal foot of
                                      (feet)               trench (square feet)
18                 24 to 36           6                    1.5
24                 24 to 36           6                    2
30                 24 to 36           7.5                  2.5
36                 24 to 36           9                    3
* A greater spacing is desirable where available area permits
* Variation of the above requirements is subject to approval by the Department
 
      (2)   These requirements for sewage disposal installations are as per the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, State of Illinois, Department
of Public health, 1974. The remainder of the requirements can be found in this
publication.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.063 SLOPE.
   In any district where the slope of any lot exceeds 12% within 50 feet of any
wall of the principal building, following additional requirements shall be met.
   (A)   A site plan shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equal 100 feet if
possible or at a scale necessary for clarity for small parcels with contour
intervals adequate to describe drainage flows and the degree of slope and the
location of all buildings and structures. The principal use of the lot shall be
indicated.
   (B)   Adequate evidence must be presented to show that undue erosion will
not result from development and use of the lot. Structural, mechanical or
natural cover measures shall be taken to prevent and protect any building from
hillside slippage.
   (C)   A stable angle of recline for the properties of soil on the lot may be
required.
   (D)   Significant changes in the natural flow of watercourses shall be
prohibited or a drainage plan shall be provided.
   (E)   Adequate consideration shall be given to access to the property and to
emergency vehicle access and turn-arounds to the principal building.
   (F)    Structural and mechanical devices shall be installed to provide
reasonable protection against undue hazards created or caused by the
development, such as fences along steep slopes, and six-inch vertical curbs on
access drives for slopes of 12% and over.
   (G)   In no case shall any development be detrimental to adjacent
properties.
   (H)   Before any building permit or zoning certificate shall be issued for
any lot the Zoning Administrator shall review the site plan and determine that
conditions imposed hereunder have been complied with.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.064 YARD SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Yards, exceptions, minimum requirements. Subject to the requirements
that there be a minimum distance of six feet between any point of a roof or
eaves on a principal building and any point on any principal building on an
adjacent lot the following exceptions shall apply:
      (1)   Cornices, chimneys, planters or other similar architectural
features may extend two feet into a required yard.
      (2)   Open, enclosed, uncovered porches at ground level may extend into a
required yard not more than six feet.
      (3)   Fire escapes may extend into a required yard not more than four
feet.
      (4)   Patios extending into required rear yards may be covered by a roof,
but shall not be enclosed by walls.
      (5)   Canopies, eaves, balconies, roof overhangs or other similar
features not included in the foregoing parts of this section may extend into a
required yard not more than four feet.
      (6)   Average front yard exception: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, in all R, MH Districts where lots comprising 50% or more of the
frontage on one side of a street between intersection streets are developed
with buildings having an average front yard with a variation of not more than
ten feet, the average front yard of these buildings shall be the minimum
required, provided this average requirement is not less than 20 feet or more
than 35 feet.
   (B)   Yards, existing building requirements. No yards now or hereafter
provided for a building existing on the effective date of this Zoning Code
shall subsequently be reduced below, or further reduced below if already less
than, the minimum yard requirements of this zoning code for equivalent new
construction except as otherwise specifically provided for herein.
   (C)   Yards, location, required open space. All yards, courts and other open
spaces allocated to a building or dwelling group shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the building or dwelling group unless otherwise specifically
provided for herein.
   (D)   Yards, maintenance of courts and other open spaces. The maintenance of
yards, courts, and other open space and minimum lot area legally required for a
building shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of the building or of
the owner of the property on which it is located if the building is vacant.
Furthermore, no legally required yards, courts or other open space or minimum
lot areas allocated to any building shall, by virtue of change of ownership or
for any other reason, be used to satisfy yard, court, other open space or
minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
SUPPLEMENTARY LAND USE REGULATIONS
§ 93.075 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define regulations and standards that
apply to the area, bulk, and use of specific land uses. These regulations apply
in all instances of development in all zoning districts.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.076 REGULATIONS IN THE VICINITY OF MAJOR AIRPORTS.
   The following special height limitations shall apply to areas within two
miles of the boundary lines of major airports. (For the purposes of applying
these regulations, the Building and Zoning Committee shall indicate which, if
any airports within the county shall be designated as major.)
   (A)   Within 7,500 feet from the nearest airport boundary, no building,
structure, object of natural growth or portion thereof, shall exceed a height
above curb level of 25 feet, or one foot for each 50 feet that building,
structure or object is distant from the nearest boundary or boundaries,
whichever height is greater.
   (B)   Between 7,500 feet and two miles from the nearest airport boundary, no
building, structure, object of natural growth, or portion thereof, shall exceed
a height above curb level of 150 feet.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.077 CHURCHES AND PLACES OF FORMAL WORSHIP.
   Each principal building shall be located at least 25 feet from all property
lines or shall meet the zoning district yard and setback requirements,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.078 DRILLING FOR COAL AND MINERALS.
   (A)   The drilling for coal, and the mining and removal thereof by
underground mining methods shall be exempt from the provisions of this zoning
code, and the preparation and transportation hereof shall be a permitted use in
the Agriculture District, and a special use in all other districts, except
that, after the effective date of this zoning code, and preparation plant
erected in the Agriculture District shall be located not less than 1,000 feet
from any then existing dwelling not owned by the operator of the coal mine.
Prior to the beginning of any mining operations, the operator of the mine shall
prepare and file with the Zoning Administrator a plat showing the location of
the preparation plant and the line showing the 1,000 feet from the preparation
plant. Any owner, lessee, or optionee of the site upon which a coal preparation
plant and its ancillary facilities are to be located shall make application for
a special use permit, subject to the other provisions of the zoning code, for
the location thereof in any district other than the Agriculture District. In
any district the owner, lessee or optionee shall submit plans for the treatment
of mine refuse to the county for approval before the beginning of mining
operations. (See §
93.098)
   (B)   The drilling, recovery and transportation of oil and gas, and the
underground storage thereof shall be exempt from the provisions of the Zoning
Code except that any and all surface installations in connection therewith
shall require a special use permit in all except an Agriculture District and
shall be in full compliance with the laws, rules and regulations of the State
of Illinois and the United States. (See §
93.098)
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.079 DRIVE-IN THEATERS.
   In any district where drive-in theaters are permitted, the establishment of
these theaters shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Projection screens and parking areas shall not be closer than 150 feet
from any street centerline and not closer than 200 feet from any Residential
District boundary.
   (B)   The projection surface of motion picture screens shall not be visible
from any major traffic street.
   (C)   Loudspeakers shall be limited to the individual type, which are
designed to be heard by the occupants of one car only.
   (D)   Entrances and exits shall connect only to arterial or collector
streets and shall be designed so as not to unduly interfere with or
unnecessarily impede traffic flow.
   (E)   Fences or appropriate plant screening as approved by the Zoning
Administrator shall enclose the drive-in theater.
   (F)   All aisles and parking areas shall utilize, at a minimum, a dust
palliative or its equivalent.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.080 BUFFER STRIPS, FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGE.
   Buffer strips, fences, walls or hedge used for any purpose shall in all
districts conform to the following:
   (A)   Buffer strips. Whenever a commercial or industrial district abuts a
residential district, or is across a street, alley, or similar obstacle, from a
residential district a buffer strip of landscaping or similar treatment shall
be required.
   (B)   Visibility. For the purpose of minimizing traffic hazards at street
intersections by improving visibility for converging vehicles, obstructions
higher than two feet above the adjacent top of the curb or street elevation,
whichever is higher, shall not be permitted to be planted, placed, maintained,
or erected on any corner lot within the triangular portion of land designated
as restricted area in Figure 1.
   (C)   Barbed wire. No barbed wire or other such sharp pointed fence below
six feet in height and no electrically charged fence shall be erected or
maintained except in Agricultural Districts.
   (D)   No permanent fences. No permanent fence, retaining wall, or
obstruction shall be constructed or erected within any public street or alley
right-of-way unless authorized by the Building and Zoning Committee. Fences
erected on public easement or across ditches shall be so constructed that
drainage shall not be obstructed. In the event of necessity for removal of the
fence for maintenance or other purposes, removal or replacement of the fence or
other improvement shall be responsibility of the owner of the fence or
retaining wall.
   (E)   Fences are not to obstruct. No fence shall obstruct the view at a
public or private road. The maximum height of any fence, or portion thereof,
shall be six feet unless otherwise specifically exempted by another provision
of this code. No fence is permitted in a front yard, or a front yard setback
area, unless it is of an open type, at least 50% open, and does not exceed four
feet in height. The finish side of any fence shall face outward toward adjacent
properties.
   (F)   Dismantling fencing; removal. When dismantling a fence, all components
of the said fence shall be removed.
   (G)   Double fencing. Double fencing is not permitted. A gap of at least two
feet shall be provided between any two parallel fences.
   (H)   Permitted fencing materials.
      (1)   Residential and Agricultural Zoning District. Wood; vinyl; rod
iron; composite; chain link. Construction fencing may be utilized during the
construction of an improvement or structure and shall be removed two months
after completion.
      (2)   Commercial and Manufacturing Zoning District. Wood; vinyl; rod
iron; composite; chain link; corrugated metal; any other materials will be
subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.081 VEHICLE REPAIR STANDARDS.
   (A)   Hobby, personal automotive repair.  Hobby or personal vehicle repair
shall be permitted in agriculture and all residential districts. There shall be
no signage, roll off dumpsters, or other fixtures associated with commercial
operations. There shall be no employees and no traffic generated by the
activity. The owner shall provide adequate disposal of oil, parts, chemicals,
and scrap. The use shall not create nuisances including but not limited to,
noise, light, air, and/or any other emissions. Hours of operation shall be 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday. No more than two vehicles may be
repaired at any given time. There shall be no use of right of way for repair or
storage. In cases where repairs require longer than one week to complete, the
vehicle must be stored within a fully-enclosed structure or private garage.
   (B)   Commercial automotive repair. In all commercial automotive repair
garages all repair work, servicing and storage of parts and equipment for
vehicles, auto body, and similar uses shall be done completely within an
enclosed building or shall be enclosed by a solid fence at least eight feet in
height, or a planting of at least ten feet in depth and eight feet in height,
or as approved by the Zoning Administrator. All operations must comply with all
other applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.082 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
   In districts where gasoline service stations are permitted the establishment
of these uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   All gasoline pumps, lubrication or similar devices and other service
facilities shall be located at least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line
or side or rear lot line.
   (B)   No access drive shall be within 200 feet of a fire station, school,
public library, church, park or playground.
   (C)   All devices for dispensing or selling of milk, ice, cold drinks, and
the like shall be located within or adjacent to the principal building.
   (D)   Whenever a gasoline service station has been abandoned, all
underground storage tanks shall either be removed or filled with some
acceptable material approved by the Zoning Administrator. A gasoline service
station shall be considered abandoned when the owner, tenant or lesser has not
sought to continue the use for a period exceeding 12 months.
   (E)   All waste and trash receptacles shall be in a screened enclosed area
except for minor receptacles adjacent to gasoline pumps.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.083 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. All home occupations shall be subject to the
following requirements unless otherwise noted:
      (1)   This use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not change the residential
character thereof.
      (2)   The home occupation shall be no larger than one-fourth of the gross
floor area of dwelling’s first story, or within an accessory building with an
area not more than 300 square feet.
      (3)   There shall be no retail sales or displays, including selling
stocks of merchandise, supplies, or products on-site.
      (4)   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment. All equipment,
supplies and materials used for the business must be stored entirely within the
dwelling or an accessory structure.
      (5)   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, lighting, smoke,
dust, odors, heat or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
      (6)   A home occupation shall provide an additional off-street parking
area adequate to accommodate needs created by the home occupation. This parking
shall be provided on the same lot as the home occupation.
      (7)   A home occupation shall only be granted to the current owner or
lessee of a property and is nontransferable.
      (8)   Agricultural uses shall not be considered a home occupation.
Agriculture uses that are permitted by right are not affected by this section.
      (9)   Signage. A sign up to six square feet in size is permitted on the
property where a home occupation is located. The sign may be located on or near
the home. On properties two acres or greater in size, the sign shall be located
at least 30 feet from the front property line. On properties smaller than two
acres, the sign shall be located within 15 feet of the home. Signs must be
consistent with neighborhood and general area aesthetic and signs, including
surrounding landscaping, must be properly maintained.
   (B)   Type “A” home occupation. A Type “A” home occupation is an operation
in which the residents use their home as a place of work, but no customers or
non-resident employees come to the site. A Type “A” home occupation must meet
all of the general rules for home occupations, but does not require a special
use permit. In addition to the general zoning ordinances required of all home
occupations, the following special criteria are required to meet a Type “A”
home occupation status:
      (1)   Permitted Type “A” home occupations. Type “A” home occupations
include, but are not limited to. the following list of occupations. Others
judged similar or identical thereto by the Zoning Administrator may be
considered a Type “A” home occupation. Uses that are not similar or identical
to any listed permitted Type “A” home occupation, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be considered prohibited.
         (a)   Home crafts;
         (b)   Federally licensed firearm dealership;
         (c)   Professional service offices, such as architects, engineers,
lawyers, realtors, insurance agents, brokers, and members of similar
professions;
         (d)   Internet based businesses, data entry, and similar computer
work;
         (e)   Catalogue sales for goods, products, or materials not
inventoried, warehoused, or stored on the premises are permissible;
         (f)   Home kitchen operation in compliance with the Illinois Food
Handling Regulation Enforcement Act [410 ILCS 625/3.4];
      (2)   Employees. All non-resident employees are prohibited.
      (3)   Customers. Customers, clients, or visitors related to the home
occupation are prohibited.
      (4)   Parking/traffic generation. There shall not be additional off-
street parking or traffic generation related to the home occupation.
      (5)   Deliveries. Delivery of products and materials related to the home
occupation by vehicles other than automobiles shall occur no more than once per
day, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and shall regularly occur
only in single rear axle straight trucks or smaller vehicles customarily used
to serve residential areas.
   (C)   Type “B” home occupation. A Type “B” home occupation is an operation
in which the residents use their home as a place of work that involves
employees and customers who visit the property. This type of home occupation
shall require a special use permit, and shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Permitted Type “B” home occupations. Type “B” home occupations
include, but are not limited to. the following list of occupations. Others
judged similar or identical thereto by the Zoning Administrator may be
considered a home occupation. Uses that are not similar or identical to any
listed permitted home occupation, as determined by the Zoning Administrator,
shall be considered prohibited.
         (a)   Home crafts;
         (b)   Professional service offices, such as architects, engineers,
lawyers, realtors, insurance agents, brokers, and members of similar
professions;
         (c)   Internet based businesses, data entry, and similar computer
work;
         (d)   Music teachers, provided that instructions shall be limited to
one pupil at a time;
         (e)   Counseling, provided that sessions shall be limited to one pupil
at a time;
         (f)   Tutoring, provided that sessions shall be limited to one pupil
at a time;
         (g)   The keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders provided
maximum occupancy requirements are satisfied;
         (h)   Hair salon, beauty parlor, and barber shops;
         (i)   Catalogue sales for goods, products, or materials not
inventoried, warehoused, or stored on the premises are permissible.
      (2)   Employees. Shall employ no more than one full-time or part-time
employee on the site other than the residents of the dwelling unit.
      (3)   Customers. Customers are permitted to visit the site between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. for business related activity or transactions.
      (4)   Parking and traffic generation. All parking required for the
conduct of the home occupation shall be off-street. No home occupation shall
increase vehicular traffic flow or parking by more than one additional vehicle
at a time for customers or deliveries (excluding one nonresident employee
space, if applicable). Not more than one commercial vehicle shall be permitted
in connection with any home occupation and such vehicle shall be stored in a
fully enclosed structure.
      (5)   Deliveries. Delivery of products and materials related to the home
occupation by vehicles other than automobiles shall occur no more than once per
day, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. and shall regularly occur
only in single rear axle straight trucks or smaller vehicles customarily used
to serve residential areas.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
chapter, the following uses are specifically prohibited as home occupations:
      (1)   Tattoo parlors, including permanent make-up;
      (2)   Automotive repair with the exception of activities authorized in §
93.081(A) Hobby, personal automotive repair;
      (3)   Clinics or hospitals:
      (4)   Contractor’s shop and yard;
      (5)   Junkyards, automobile graveyards, and tow truck storage yards;
      (6)   Solid waste management facilities;
      (7)   Used or new motor vehicle sales;
      (8)   Veterinary clinics or hospitals:
      (9)   Funeral chapels, funeral homes, mortuary, or crematoriums;
      (10)   Restaurants, clubs, or drinking establishments;
      (11)   Tea room;
      (12)   Tourist home;
      (13)   Antique shop;
      (14)   Nursing home;
      (15)   Manufacturing or processing;
      (16)   Other activities and land uses which the Zoning Administrator
determines to be substantially similar in character, nature, intensity, or
impact to the activities listed above.
   (E)   Revocation. Any property that is deemed to be subject to revocation
shall follow the procedures outlined in §
93.182 Revocation; expiration.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2017-02,
passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.084 HOSPITALS AND SANITARIUMS.
   In any district where hospitals and sanitariums are permitted the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   The minimum site for any hospital or sanitarium shall be five acres,
provided that for a hospital or sanitarium containing more than 50 beds, the
minimum site shall be the greater of: five acres, or the number of acres
determined by the following formula:
 
((Number of Beds) x (% of Total Floor Area at Ground Level))/ 500 = Site Size
in Acres
 
   (B)   All principal buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot
lines.
   (C)   The site shall have a minimum length and width dimension of 200 feet.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.085 JUNK YARDS, AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARDS, OR STORAGE POOLS.
   In any district where junk yards are permitted the establishment or
maintenance of these uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   All storage of parts and equipment and the dismantling of vehicles
shall be done within a completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed
by a solid fence not less than ten feet in height and expected to attain a
height of at least 20 feet.
   (B)   Any junkyard shall be located not less than 500 feet from any
residential district boundary.
   (C)   All activities and operation, including the storage of automobiles or
related vehicles, shall be within an area that is completely enclosed by a
fence in good repair, constructed so as to be reasonably insurmountable by
children.
      (1)   This fence shall be:
         (a)   Of solid board;
         (b)   Welded wire; or
         (c)   Of comparable materials approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   This fence shall be at least ten feet in height, and no salvaged or
stored material shall be stored within the confines of the fence to a height
greater than the height of the fence.
      (3)   Each automobile wrecking yard shall be screened as required by
Illinois Vehicle Code and all other applicable State Statutes.
      (4)   All materials shall be stored in such a manner as to prevent the
breeding or harboring of rats, insects, or other vermin and also the collection
of stagnant water shall not exist.
   (D)   The property must be on public sewers. Private sewage systems are not
permitted for hospitals or sanitariums.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.086 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, parking areas, swimming pools,
or for any other purpose shall be arranged in such a manner as to direct the
light away from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of
passing motorists.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.087 MOBILE HOME, PARKING FOR INSPECTION AND SALES.
   A mobile home may be parked for inspection and sale on any automobile or
trailer sales lot but mobile homes shall not be parked for inspection and sales
to the general public within any mobile home park.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.088 NURSERY SCHOOLS.
   In any district where nursery schools are permitted, the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   For each child at east 50 square feet of floor space shall be provided
in addition to that provided for sleeping purposes.
   (B)   For each child at least 100 square feet of outdoor, enclosed (fenced)
play area shall be provided.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.089 NURSING AND REST HOMES.
   In any district where nursing homes are permitted, the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   The minimum site for any nursing home shall be two acres, provided
that for a nursing home containing more than 40 beds the minimum site area
shall be the greater of : Two acres, or the number of acres determined by the
following formula.
 
   ((Number of Beds) X (% of Total Floor Area at Ground Level))/ 2,000 = Site
Size in Acres
 
   (B)   All principal buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot
lines.
   (C)   The site shall have a minimum length and width dimension of 200 feet.
   (D)   The property must be on public sewers. Private sewage systems are not
permitted for nursing or rest homes.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.090 PLANT NURSERIES AND GREENHOUSE.
   In any district where tree and plant nurseries and greenhouses are permitted
the establishment of these uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   No fertilizer, compost, manure or other odor or dust producing
substance shall be stored within 50 feet from any property line.
   (B)   Greenhouse heating plants shall be in an enclosed building and shall
not be less than 50 feet from any property line.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.091 PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In any zone district where publicly-owned office or governmental building,
other than the county's are permitted there shall be no permanent storage of
heavy construction or maintenance equipment (such as excavating, road building
or hauling equipment) unless in an enclosed building or enclosed within a live
planting screen and fenced as approved by the Building and Zoning Committee.
These storage areas, maintenance yards, or storage warehouses shall be located
at least 15 feet from any property line.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.092 PUBLIC UTILITY STATIONS, EXCHANGES AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, telephone exchange
facilities, sewage treatment plants, water storage facilities, or similar
facilities in any Residential Zone District shall meet all requirements and in
other zone districts shall meet all requirements except divisions (A) and (E)
of this section and may be required to meet division (G) of this section. A
special use permit shall be required.
   (A)   No public office, principal repair, or storage facilities shall be
maintained in connection with such substations or exchanges.
   (B)   The building housing any such facility shall be designed and
constructed to conform to the general character of the neighborhood.
   (C)   The area on which the facility is located shall be landscaped and a
landscaping plan shall be submitted.
   (D)   Where all facilities and equipment are entirely within completely
enclosed building, the minimum lot shall be as follows: lot width shall not be
less than the total width of the building plus the total of the minimum
required side yards; lot depth shall not be less than the depth of the building
plus the minimum required front yard plus the five-foot minimum rear yard.
   (E)   Where facilities or equipment are located outside the completely
enclosed building, no facilities or equipment shall be located closer than 15
feet to any side or rear lot line.
   (F)   If transformers are exposed, there shall be provided an enclosing
fence or wall at least eight feet in height.
   (G)   All parcels or lots on which substations, exchanges, equipment or
transformers are located shall meet the following minimum landscaping
standards: a planting screen of at least one foot in depth and expected to
reach a height of a least ten feet shall be provided and maintained.
   (H)   All utilities shall file a letter of intent for maintenance schedules
and procedures at the time of application.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.093 SANITARY LANDFILL AND LANDFILL.
   In any zone district where sanitary landfill is permitted, the following
additional requirements shall apply:
   (A)   A special use permit for any landfill operation shall be required. The
following plans shall be required for any sanitary landfill operation and may
be required for other landfills.
   (B)   Maps of the site at a scale of one-inch equals 200 feet or a smaller
scale if necessary for clarity. If map size would exceed 36 inches, the next
appropriate map scale may be used.
   (C)   Existing topography of the site at ten-foot contour intervals, spot
elevations in places too flat to be adequately defined by contours, and all
natural features such as natural watercourses and drainage ways.
   (D)   Ownership of the subject property and the abutting properties.
   (E)   The present use of the land and of adjoining land.
   (F)   A statement from a qualified soil scientist, geologist, or engineer
stating the expected severity of ground water or surface water pollution that
will be generate, shall be required for sanitary landfill operations.
   (G)   A section of the plan shall be devoted to the reshaping, final
grading, and expected drainage pattern of the site when completely filled. This
section shall include map showing final contours at intervals of not more than
ten feet and spot elevations in place too flat to be adequately defined by
contours.
   (H)   Final grading shall be implemented concurrently with landfill
operations. The landfill plan shall designate which sections of the landfill
parcel will be filed and final graded to accomplish concurrent implementation
of the final plan with ongoing landfill operations. Those sections that are
final graded shall be immediately seeded with foliage or grasses capable of
minimizing erosion and preventing the siltation of streams.
   (I)   The sanitary landfill site shall be completely fenced with a solid or
wire mesh fence not less than six feet in height and, if wire, with mesh small
enough to prevent windblown landfill materials from escaping the site.
   (J)   All topsoil shall be stored and retained on the site and re-spread
during final grading of the site.
   (K)   The plan shall provide that the land can be readily used for urban or
agricultural purposes after the landfill operation has ceased.
   (L)   A performance bond equal to the amount of the assessed valuation for
the property for the purposes shall be posted with the county to insure
reshaping of the topography in conformance with the plan. If the sanitary
landfills to be conducted on only a portion of the total parcel at any one time
the portion to be used may be so designated on the plan and the performance
bond posted for the part or parts to be so used.
   (M)   No sanitary landfill shall be operated within 1,000 linear feet of any
R Residential District or any existing residential subdivision except when most
unusual circumstances exist.
   (N)   A permit from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency shall be
required.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.094 SCHOOLS, PRIVATE AND PAROCHIAL.
   In any district where private or parochial schools are permitted, the
following additional requirements shall be met:
   (A)   The site shall have a minimum of four acres and one additional acre
for each 150 pupils in excess of 200.
   (B)   Each principal building shall be located at least 25 feet from all
property lines.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.095 SURFACE MINING.
   The following are requirements for surface mining of minerals such as coal,
gravel, sand, limestone, soil and related minerals. These regulations are
designed to protect the health, welfare and safety of county citizens; to
conserve the tax base of the county; to protect its economic stability; and to
prevent degradation of the natural environment.
   (A)   County permit required.
      (1)   County surface mining permits are required whenever state surface
mining permits are required, and additionally are required whenever surface
mining activities are conducted on tracts of less than ten acres.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit a copy of the state application and all
information submitted to state in support of its application.
   (B)   State permit required. The applicant shall not begin any mining
operations until the State of Illinois has issued the appropriate mining
permit, copy of the permit has been submitted to the county and a county permit
has been obtained.
   (C)   Bond. The applicant shall submit an estimate of reclamation costs per
ace for all surface mining proposed (in this permit application) in a calendar
year and shall give the county performance bond equal to any anticipated costs
in addition to $600 per acre. If the estimated costs are disputed by the
county, the applicant shall furnish actual reclamation costs or completed
projects and a determination shall be made by the county for the amount of the
performance bond required. The bond shall be recalculated annually and adjusted
as required. Bond or escrow funds may be used and shall comply with the
subdivision code of the county.
   (D)   Land to be reclaimed for row crop agriculture. Where the county
determines that the affected land was used for row crop agricultural purposes
at any time within five years before mining, the affected land shall be graded
to the approximate original grade of the land.
   (E)   Minimum earth cover. It has been determined that soil depths exist in
excess of four feet, with the exception of rock outcrops and other minor areas,
throughout the county. Therefore, a soil cover of a minimum of four feet shall
be placed on all reclaimed lands, not left in water bodies, except for row crop
lands which shall have minimum soil cover of six feet to insure oil depth
necessary for various crop rotations.
   (F)   Top soil. On any lands that are surface mind, topsoil shall be removed
prior to mining and re-spread during reclamation.
   (G)   Original grade. The slope of affected lands need not be reduced to
less than the original grade of the overburden of that area prior to mining but
shall not exceed the original slope by more than 10% except for approved areas
reclaimed for recreational, forestry, wildlife uses.
   (H)   Additional requirements. The County Board may in its discretion
require additional requirements where warranted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.096 SWIMMING POOLS.
   A public or private swimming pool in any zone district shall not be located
in the required front yard area and must adhere to accessory structure setback
requirements for the district in which it is located (see §
93.051). All swimming pools of more than two feet in depth shall have an
obstacle of at least four feet in height around the pool, which may be a fence
or other approved obstacle (see §
93.080). Automatic pool covers that comply with ASTM F1346 are a permitted
barrier for in-ground pools. Partially-in-ground pools must have a four foot
high barrier on all sides, or an automatic pool cover that complies with ASTM
F1346.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.097 TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Agricultural Districts.
 
2024 S-4
158   Madison County - Land Usage
      (1)   All provisions within this section may be exempt for agricultural
purposes with the approval by the Zoning Administrator at the direction of the
Building and Zoning Committee.
      (2)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front driveway at least
30 feet back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or
trailer stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side
property line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied, and
parked in an orderly and organized fashion.
      (3)   A maximum of four large transport trailers shall be permitted on
lots larger than ten acres which shall be parked at least 100 feet or greater
from the front, side, and rear yard setback.
      (4)   Commercial trailers are prohibited with the exception of those used
exclusively for agricultural purposes, including livestock, grain, fertilizer
and any other agriculture related cargo.
      (5)   No recreational vehicle or trailers shall be parked on any public
street or right-of-way except those temporarily parked while actively loading
or unloading for a period of time not to exceed 48 consecutive hours in any
one-week period provided that the normal traffic flow is not interrupted.
      (6)   Trailers shall not be used for advertising purposes.
   (B)   Residential Districts.
      (1)   Boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers. A maximum of four
boats, campers/camping trailers, and trailers are permitted in the rear or side
yard. On properties two acres or greater in size, an additional boat, camper/
camping trailer, or trailer shall be permitted in the front driveway at least
30 feet
 
back from the front property line. Any boat, camper/camping trailer, or trailer
stored in the side yard shall be a minimum of 20 feet from the side property
line. All boats and campers/camping trailers must be unoccupied, and parked in
an orderly and organized fashion.
      (2)   Recreational equipment or trailers shall be parked on a paved or
graveled all-weather surface.
      (3)   No recreational equipment or trailers shall be parked on any
driveway, street or adjacent right-of-way except those temporarily parked while
actively loading or unloading for a period of time not to exceed 48 consecutive
hours in any one-week period.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles or trailers shall not be used for advertising
purposes.
      (5)   Residential trailers shall not impede safe entry to or exit from
any house and does not inhibit emergency access to and from any structure.
      (6)   Large transport trailers are prohibited.
   (C)   Manufacturing and Business Districts.
      (1)   A large transport trailer, recreational vehicle, and utility
trailer shall be allowed on a commercial property and shall not be placed in
the required designated parking area for the business.
      (2)   No recreational vehicles or trailers shall be parked on any drive
aisle, public, street or adjacent right-of-way except those temporarily parked
while actively loading or unloading for a period of time not to exceed 48
consecutive hours in any one week period.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles or trailers shall not be used for advertising
purposes.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.098 MINING REFUSE REGULATION.
   Mine refuse from surface, slope, shaft, pit and similar mining methods shall
be treated, reclaimed and re-vegetated as provided for in the:
   (A)   Rules and Regulations Pertaining to The Surface Mined Land
Conservation and Reclamation Act, State of Illinois, Department of Mine and
Minerals; and
   (B)   Chapter 4, Mine Related Pollution, Pollution Control Board, State of
Illinois.
   (C)   These rules and regulations as adopted, amended, supplemented, and
revised from time to time are hereby adopted and made a part of this zoning
code as if fully set out in this zoning code.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.099 TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   In any district where a telecommunication facility is erected, the
establishment of these uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Setbacks. All improvements and equipment of the facility shall, at a
minimum, comply with the following setbacks. Setbacks shall be measured from
the center of the base of the tower to the property line:
      (1)   Residential Zoned Districts. 50% of the height of the tower.
      (2)   All other zoned districts. 100% of the height of the tower.
   (B)   Variations in height restrictions. Variations may be requested to
exceed the limits set forth in this section. Variances may only be approved by
the Zoning Board Appeals and the County Board as allowed in §
93.177(K) of this chapter. Variances may also be granted for residential zoned
lots, being used for residential purposes, of less than two acres provided the
requirements of §
93.177(K) are also met.
   (C)   Grandfathered structures. Any existing telecommunication facility is
grandfathered under these regulations. In addition, any Grandfathered structure
may be modified, provided the height of the existing facility or a replacement
facility may not be made more than 15 feet higher than the height of the
existing structure.
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   No part of the facility (building or tower) should encroach onto
any recorded easement without approval of the easement grantee.
      (2)   Lighting should be installed for security and safety purposes and,
with the exception of FAA and FCC required lighting, shielded to prevent glare
from extending substantially beyond the boundaries of the facility.
      (3)   No encroachment onto an existing septic field.
      (4)   Full compliance with flood plain regulations found in §
93.038.
      (5)   Trees in excess of three inches in diameter, measured 24 inches
from the base, shall be preserved when possible. Any trees meeting this size
requirement and destroyed or removed must be replaced. A tree removal/
replacement plan must be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   All facilities, located in a residential zoning district or
adjoining a residential use, must be enclosed with a fenced and screened. The
fence shall be at least six feet in height and must be of a solid screen type.
A landscaping buffer must be planted on sides of the facility that abuts a
residential use or a public roadway. The buffer must contain evergreen type
trees, a minimum of five feet in height when planted, of a species that will
grow a minimum of 15 feet in height, and planted fifteen feet off center. The
landscaping buffer is not required in the area of the gate.
      (7)   Any building that is part of the facility that is adjacent to a
residentially zoned lot shall be designed with exterior materials and colors
that are reasonably compatible with the residential character of the area. An
architectural plan, including elevations, shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator for these structures.
      (8)   The facility is exempt from all area/bulk regulations of the zoning
district it is located in, unless required in this section.
      (9)   In choosing a location for a facility, a telecommunications carrier
shall consider the following:
         (a)   A non-residentially zoned lot is the most desirable location.
         (b)   A residentially zoned lot that is not used for residential
purposes is the second most desirable location.
         (c)   A residentially zoned lot that is two acres or more in size and
is used for residential purposes is the third most desirable location.
         (d)   A residentially zoned lot that is less than two acres in size
and is used for residential purposes is the least desirable location.
   (E)   Height. All telecommunication facilities must comply with the
following height requirements:
      (1)   Agricultural and Conservation Districts. Tower height not to exceed
200 feet.
      (2)   Residential Districts. Tower height not to exceed 75 feet.
      (3)   Business and Manufacturing Districts. Tower height not to exceed
200 feet.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.100 DOMESTIC FARM ANIMALS.
   The purpose of this section is to provide supplemental regulations for the
keeping of honeybees, chickens (hens only), and dwarf goats in Madison County.
A property is exempt from the domestic farm animal supplementary regulations if
a property is exclusively tied to a farm operation or the primary occupation of
the property owner is agricultural farming.
   (A)   Conditions for keeping bees. The purpose of this section is to create
appropriate regulations for the keeping of domestic honeybees and is not
intended to create regulations for the commercial sale or distribution of bees,
beeswax, honey, or bee by-products.
      (1)   In Residential Zoning Districts, the keeping of bees is prohibited
without a special use permit and unless compliance with all of the conditions
required by this section are maintained. A permit shall allow a maximum of
three colonies of domestic honeybees.
      (2)   Beekeeper shall be in compliance with the Illinois Bees and
Apiaries Act (510 ILCS 20) and shall register the colony with the Illinois
Department of Agriculture.
      (3)   Colonies shall not be located in the front yard setback area.
      (4)   Colonies shall be at least 20 feet from side and rear property
lines.
      (5)   Colonies shall be screened so that the bees surmount a six-foot
flyway barrier, which may only consist of a solid wall, fence, dense
vegetation, or combination of these materials, before leaving the property.
      (6)   There shall be no outdoor storage of any bee paraphernalia or hive
materials not being used as a part of a hive.
      (7)   Beekeeper shall keep each colony in a hive structure that is
maintained in sound and usable condition.
      (8)   Beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is
available at all times to bees so that bees will not congregate at a
neighboring water source. The water shall be maintained so as not to become
stagnant.
      (9)   Beekeeper shall store or dispose of bee comb or other material
removed from a hive in a sealed container, building, or other bee-proof
enclosure.
      (10)   For each two colonies, there may be maintained one nucleus colony
in a hive structure.
      (11)   Bee keeper shall immediately replace the queen in a colony that
exhibits aggressive characteristics, including stinging or attempting to sting
without provocation, or a disposition towards swarming. A beekeeper required to
replace a queen under this division (A)(11) shall select the replacement from
bee stock bred for gentleness and non-swarming characteristics.
      (12)   In the event any bees from colonies shall threaten the safety of
adjoining residents or the reasonable use of adjoining premises, such shall
constitute a nuisance and be cause for removal of all hives from the offending
premises.
      (13)   Madison County Code Enforcement Officials and government health
officials, or their designees, may inspect the conditions where the bees are
kept at any time during regular business hours.
      (14)   ln "A" Agricultural Districts, the keeping of not more than five
colonies of domestic honeybees for private purposes only on a zoning lot whose
principal use is intended to be a single-family dwelling, provided that the
beekeeping is done in compliance with supplemental regulations found in this
section. Permitted accessory use on non-urban, residential tracts of land
between two and five acres in size.
   (B)   Conditions for keeping chickens. The purpose of this section is to
create appropriate regulations for the keeping of chickens as pets and/or a
personal food source. The purpose of this section is not to create regulations
for the commercial sale or distribution of chickens or eggs.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, the term CHICKEN includes only
hens. Roosters are prohibited.
      (2)   In Residential Zone Districts, refer to the applicable zoning code
section for requirements and limitations related to the number of and
circumstances under which chickens may be kept. Any lawfully allowed animals,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be enclosed within a pen at all times so that
the animal will not become free roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal
husbandry practices of the day, shall be provided shelter so as to be protected
from adverse weather. Also consistent with then current animal husbandry
practices, animals shall be provided with food and water. Premises upon which
animals are kept, including areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and
healthy manner so as to not attract unwanted creatures and to not become a
nuisance.
      (3)   Owner shall register with the Illinois Department of Agriculture
Livestock Premises Registration, and must have proof of registration on-site.
      (4)   A chicken coop and chicken run shall be required on all properties
where chickens are kept.
      (5)   The chicken coop shall accommodate all chickens permitted on the
property, must be located in the rear yard, and must be a minimum distance of
20 feet from the nearest property line.
      (6)   All chicken runs shall be located in the rear yard, be
appropriately fenced to prevent the chickens from leaving the run, provide 16
square feet of permeable land for each chicken, and be located at least 20 feet
from the nearest property line.
      (7)   Free range chickens are not permitted. FREE RANGE CHICKENS, for the
purpose of this section, are defined as chickens that are not restrained by a
chicken coop or chicken run as permitted and approved pursuant to this section.
      (8)   A metal sealable food container is required. Chicken feed shall be
kept in a predator-proof/rodent-proof container.
      (9)   Waste material must be disposed of in a manner that will not cause
odor, or attract flies or vermin.
      (10)   All areas where chickens are kept shall be maintained to be neat
and clean and free of undue accumulation of waste to prevent odors detectable
on adjacent properties.
      (11)   No person shall allow chickens to produce noise loud enough to
disturb the peace of persons in surrounding properties.
      (12)   The owner of the chickens shall ensure that their birds are cared
for properly when ill and disposed of in a manner that does not endanger the
public health and safety when their birds die.
      (13)   The slaughtering of chickens kept in residential areas as
authorized by these regulations shall be done within an enclosed structure out
of public view.
      (14)   No chickens may be kept or maintained to be used for the purpose
of fighting.
      (15)   Madison County Code Enforcement Officials and government health
officials, or their designees, may inspect the conditions where the chickens
are kept at any time during regular business hours.
      (16)   In “A” Agricultural Districts, refer to the applicable zoning code
section for requirements and limitations related to the number of and
circumstances under which chickens may be kept. Any lawfully allowed animals,
pursuant to this chapter, shall be enclosed within a pen at all times so that
the animal will not become free roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal
husbandry practices of the day, shall be provided shelter so as to be protected
from adverse weather. Also consistent with then current animal husbandry
practices, animals shall be provided with food and water. Premises upon which
animals are kept, including areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and
healthy manner so as to not attract unwanted creatures and to not become a
nuisance.
   (C)   Conditions for keeping goats. The purpose of this section is to create
appropriate regulations for the keeping of goats as pets. For the purpose of
this section, the term GOAT refers to does and wethers (neutered males).
      (1)   In Residential Zone Districts, the keeping of goats is prohibited
without a special use permit and unless compliance with all of the conditions
required by this section are maintained. A permit shall allow up to two goats.
      (2)   No intact male goats older than six weeks may be kept.
      (3)   There must be at least 130 square feet of permeable land area
available for each goat, plus adequate shelter space for each goat.
      (4)   Adequate shelter must be provided to protect goats from the
elements and to prevent wildlife or other predators from gaining entry (see §
93.051).
      (5)   Adequate fencing shall be provided to prevent goats from escaping
when not in their shelters.
      (6)   In "A" Agricultural Districts, the keeping of up to two goats for
private purposes only on a zoning lot whose principal use is intended to be a
single-family dwelling, provided that the keeping of these animals is done in
compliance with supplemental regulations found in this section. Permitted
accessory use on non-urban, residential tracts of land between two and five
acres in size. Any lawfully allowed animals, pursuant to this chapter. shall be
enclosed within a pen at all times so that the animal will not become free
roaming. Animals, consistent with the animal husbandry practices of the day,
shall be provided shelter so as to be protected from adverse weather. Also
consistent with then current animal husbandry practices, animals shall be
provided with food and water. Premises upon which animals are kept, including
areas of feed storage, shall be kept in a clean and healthy manner so as to not
attract unwanted creatures and to not become a nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-15, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2016-02,
passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.101 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Placement of a mobile home.
      (1)   A special use permit (SUP) shall be required for locating a new or
used mobile home in any zoning district. Identifying information including, but
not limited to, the name of the property owner and occupant of the manufactured
home shall be provided at the time of application in addition to the submittal
requirements of §
93.162.
      (2)   A SUP shall not be required for locating a new or used mobile home
within a (R-6) Mobile Home Park District. Also, a SUP shall not be required in
(R-7) Planned Residential Districts and (PD) Planned Unit Development Districts
when mobile homes are specifically listed as a permitted use.
      (3)   A building permit is required through the Building and Zoning
Department for the placement of any mobile home in any district and shall be in
compliance with division (B) below.
   (B)   Building standards.
      (1)   Foundations and footings.
         (a)   Footings must be placed on level, firm, undisturbed soil or
compacted or controlled fill that is free of grass and organic materials,
compacted to a minimum load bearing capacity of 2,000 pounds per square foot.
Pre-owned homes for which the manufacturer of the home is no longer in business
or for which the installation instructions are not available may be placed on
an existing footing system if the system meets the requirements of this
section.
         (b)   Foundations and footings may consist of the following:
            1.   Individual pier footings consisting of precast or poured-in-
place individual pier footing concrete at least three and one-half inches thick
with a 28-day compressive strength of 3,000 pounds per square inch.
            2.   Concrete runners a minimum of four inches thick under each I-
beam or perpendicular to the I-beams at no more than eight-foot intervals.
         (c)   Concrete pads a minimum of four inches thick the approximate
dimension of the home.
         (d)   Pressure treated wood having a 0.60 retention in accordance with
the AWPA C22-03 Standard.
         (e)   Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) footing pads in accordance
with pad manufacturer installation instructions and listed for the required
load capacity and type of installation. Support devices and piers must not
overlap the footings.
         (f)   A support system approved by a licensed professional engineer.
      (2)   Skirting and tie downs. Mobile homes shall have a skirting of a
fire resistant material and have at least two inspection doors.
      (3)   Sewage disposal requirements. A mobile home is required to be on a
sewage disposal system. No private sewage system shall be smaller in size than
750-gallons’ liquid capacity.
      (4)   Electrical requirements. Any mobile home shall have a minimum of
100-amp service.
      (5)   Off-street parking and patio pad requirements. All mobile homes
shall provide off-street parking for at least two cars within the lot of the
mobile home. This shall be a minimum size pad of ten by 20 feet and shall be of
poured concrete at least four inches thick. This shall be connected to a patio
pad that will join to the mobile home pad to make a walkway and easy access to
each other. The pad shall also be poured concrete at least four inches thick.
   (C)   Continuance of an existing mobile home. Special use permits (SUP) are
valid for five years. After the five years has expired, the property owner may
renew the SUP by performing one of the following:
      (1)   SUP renewal hearing. The property owner shall apply for another SUP
hearing in order to continue the placement of the mobile home for another five
years.
      (2)   Administrative extension.
         (a)   The owner shall schedule an inspection with the Planning and
Development Department to inspect the status of the mobile home. If upon
inspection the entire property is in conformance with the property maintenance
code and the condition of the mobile home is in compliance with §
93.100(B), the Zoning Administrator may grant a continuance of the SUP for a
period not to exceed five years.
         (b)   If there are outstanding violations on a property or the
property is considered a nuisance, the Zoning Administrator may deny
administrative extension and require that the property seek a SUP renewal
hearing. The Zoning Administrator may provide a probationary period to allow
outstanding violations to be in compliance within two months of the inspection.
         (c)   A property shall deemed a nuisance if there have been five or
more incidents reported by the County Sheriff's Department during the five
years of the SUP's previous placement or extension. Properties that have been
deemed a nuisance shall be required to apply for a SUP renewal hearing.
         (d)   An administrative extension may be granted only if there is no
change in property owner and occupant of the manufactured home. Any change of
ownership or occupant requires a SUP renewal hearing.
   (D)   Revocation. Any property that is deemed to be subject to revocation
shall follow the procedures outlined in §
93.182.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.102 WINE TASTING ROOM.
   (A)   Site standards.
      (1)   Facility must be operated in association with an existing vineyard
(bona fide farm) located on the same property, or multiple adjoining properties
in the same ownership.
      (2)   Facility must be located in such a manner that visual impact to
adjoining properties used or zoned for residential purposes is minimal.
      (3)   All structures, buildings, storage areas, etc. (except fences or
walls) associated with the winery must be set back a minimum of 50 feet from
all property lines or street right of way.
      (4)   A facility serving as an established cooperative winery may be
permitted without the presence of an onsite vineyard, if, in the Zoning Board's
estimation, the facility will benefit, cater to, and serve the independent
vineyards of the county, and surrounding area.
   (B)   Lighting standards. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize
light from directly hitting adjacent property or any public right of way.
   (C)   Screening and fencing. All parking and storage areas, as well as the
winery itself, shall be screened from adjoining properties used or zoned for
residential purposes. If existing topography and natural vegetation does not
provide an existing visual barrier, selective screening may be required.
Screening shall meet the requirements of the zoning code.
   (D)   Additional requirements. Festivals to be held in conjunction with the
winery may occur no more than four times per year on site.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.103 RECEPTION VENUES.
   The purpose of this section is to provide supplemental regulations for
reception venues in Madison County. A special use permit shall be required for
all reception venues in the "A" Agriculture District only. All reception venues
shall adhere to the following regulations:
   (A)   Site standards.
      (1)   All structures, buildings, storage areas, etc. (except fences or
walls) associated with the
reception venue shall be setback a minimum of 50 feet from all property lines
or street rights-of-way.
      (2)   Adequate restroom facilities shall be provided.
      (3)   Minimum lot size of five acres.
   (B)   Lighting standards.
      (1)   Outdoor lighting shall be designed to minimize light from directly
hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
   (C)   Parking and loading standards.
      (1)   No off-site parking shall be permitted.
      (2)   A parking plan identifying the location of the dedicated parking
spaces shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator to review during the
special use permit application. The parking plan shall be tied to the special
use permit.
   (D)   Screening and fencing.
      (1)   All parking and storage areas shall be screened from adjoining
properties used or zoned for residential purposes. If existing topography and
natural vegetation does not provide a visual barrier, selective screening may
be required. Such screen, wall, or fence shall be maintained by the owner or
lessee.
   (E)   Signage.
      (1)   One 16 square-foot per-side identification sign may be located on
the property. All signage shall be at least ten feet from all property lines
and rights-of-way.
   (F)   Noise.
      (1)   No outdoor music shall be permitted. All music and live
entertainment shall occur within an enclosed structure.
      (2)   All reception venues shall adhere to the Madison County Noise
Pollution Act,
Chapter 53.
   (G)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation for a reception venue
shall be 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday, unless more stringent
hours of operation are required as a condition of the special use permit.
      (2)   Alcohol. The sale of alcohol on-site shall be prohibited. Alcohol
may be served on-site if the event is catered and the catering operation has a
valid 'Class C’ Caterer's License.
      (3)   Food. No food preparation shall take place on-site. Food catering
may occur at a reception venue in accordance with the Food Sanitation Program,
Chapter 55 of the Madison County Code of Ordinances.
      (4)   Water. All reception venues shall be in accordance with Potable
Water Supply,
Chapter 113 of the Madison County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 8-17-2015)
§ 93.104 LANDSCAPE SERVICES.
   (A)   Use restrictions. A landscaping services business shall only be
permitted as special use permit within “A” Agriculture Districts in accordance
with the following restrictions:
      (1)   No fabrication shall take place on-site.
      (2)   All equipment shall be stored within a fully enclosed structure.
      (3)   All materials shall be stored in a well-kept and orderly fashion.
      (4)   No retail or wholesale sales shall be permitted on-site.
      (5)   No customers shall be permitted on-site.
      (6)   No employees shall be permitted on-site except to pick-up or drop-
off equipment.
      (7)   Hours of operation: Monday through Friday 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.,
Saturday and Sunday 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   Minimum tract size. The minimum tract size shall be five acres.
   (C)   Setbacks. All structures associated with the landscaping services
business uses shall be a minimum of 150 feet from any property line shared with
single- family residential use.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-1-2017)
§ 93.105 AGRITOURISM.
   The purpose of this section is to provide supplemental regulations for
agritourism operations in Madison County. A special use permit shall be
required for all agritourism operations. All agritourism operations shall
adhere to the following regulations:
   (A)   Agritourism operations include, but are not limited to, the following
list of activities. Others judged similar or identical thereto by the Zoning
Administrator may be considered an agritourism operation. Uses that are not
similar or identical to any listed permitted agritourism operations, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, shall be considered prohibited.
      (1)   Agricultural technical tours.
      (2)   Agriculture-related crafts/gifts.
      (3)   Arts and crafts classes.
      (4)   Camping and picnicking.
      (5)   Corn mazes.
      (6)   Fee fishing.
      (7)   Garden/nursery tours.
      (8)   Gift and craft sales.
      (9)   Historical agriculture exhibit.
      (10)   Horseback riding.
      (11)   Petting zoo (farm animals and domesticated farm animals, see §
93.100).
      (12)   School tours.
      (13)   U-pick operations.
      (14)   Wagon/sleigh rides.
      (15)   Wildlife viewing and photography.
   (B)   Site standards.
      (1)   All structures, buildings, storage areas, etc. (except fences or
walls) associated with the reception venue shall be setback a minimum of 50
feet from all property lines or street rights-of-way.
      (2)   Adequate restroom facilities shall be provided.
      (3)   Minimum lot size of five acres.
   (C)   Lighting standards.
      (1)   Outdoor lighting shall be designated to minimize light from
directly hitting adjacent property or any public right-of-way.
   (D)   Parking and loading standards.
      (1)   No off-site parking shall be permitted.
      (2)   A parking plan identifying the location of the dedicated parking
spaces shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator to review during the
special use permit application. The parking plan shall be tied to the special
use permit.
   (E)   Screening and fencing.
      (1)   All parking and storage areas shall be screened from adjoining
properties used or zoned for residential purposes. If existing topography and
natural vegetation does not provide a visual barrier, selective screening may
be required. Such screen, wall, or fence shall be maintained by the owner or
lessee.
   (F)   Noise.
      (1)   Outdoor music shall be permitted, but must adhere to the Madison
County Noise Pollution Act,
Chapter 53.
   (G)   Additional requirements.
      (1)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation for any agritourism
operation shall be 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday unless most
stringent hours of operation are required as a condition of the special use
permit.
      (2)   Alcohol. The sale of alcohol on-site shall be permitted in
conjunction with a restaurant and/or concessions with a valid 'Class A'
Unrestricted Liquor License.
      (3)   Food. The sale and preparation of food on-site shall be permitted
in accordance with the Food Sanitation Program,
Chapter 55 of the Madison County Code of Ordinances.
      (4)   Water. All agritourism operations shall be in accordance with
Potable Water Supply,
 Chapter 113 of the Madison County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.106 COMMUNITY SOLAR.
   The purpose of this section is to provide supplemental regulations for
community solar operations in Madison County. A special use permit shall be
required for all community solar operations and shall adhere to the following
regulations:
   (A)   Minimum lot standards.
      (1)   The minimum lot size for community solar in "A" Agricultural and
"R-1" Single-Family Residential Districts shall be at least ten acres in size.
   (B)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Community solar must be at least 50 feet from all property lines.
   (C)   Fencing.
      (1)   All equipment and structures shall be enclosed and secured by a
fence with a minimum height of six feet.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 93.115 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of the Sign Code is to set out reasonable regulations
for the design, location, installation, display, operation, repair,
maintenance, and removal of signs in a manner that advances the county's
legitimate, important, substantial, and compelling interests, while
simultaneously safeguarding the constitutionally protected right of free
speech.
   (A)   Conflicts between traffic control signs and signals and various
private signs resulting in vehicular and pedestrian safety problems.
   (B)   Signs are sometimes placed in locations or constructed in a manner
that creates a danger to the public during periods of high winds or inclement
weather.
   (C)   The uncontrolled use of signs defeats the sign's informational or
advertising functions as competitors escalate sign size and expense in an
effort to fairly attract attention.
   (D)   The uncontrolled use and proliferation of signs create visual
pollution that destroys the beauty of the county, the attractiveness of
commercial areas, and the ability of the public to safety and quickly interpret
the intended messages.
   (E)   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this sign
ordinance may substitute non-commercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or
non-commercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any
additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2016- 02, passed 2-16-2016; Am. Ord.
2020-02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.116 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Regulated. The sign standards of this subchapter shall be regulated by
zone districts as shown on the zone district map. If this zoning code is
amended to include a zone district not presently included in this zoning code
no sign shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   By a written interpretation of the Zoning Board of Appeals the new
zone district is similar to an existing zone district; or
      (2)   By additional sign regulations for the new zone district.
   (B)   Illumination. The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded,
shielded, or directed that the light intensity or brightness will not be
objectionable to surrounding areas and the light rays shall not spill over the
property lines into a residential zone except by indirect reflection.
      (1)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or scintillating lights or
other illumination device that has a changing light intensity, brightness, or
color. Beacon lights are not permitted. This section is not intended to prevent
signs showing time and temperature exclusively.
      (2)   Neither the direct nor reflected light from primary light sources
shall create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public
thoroughfares.
      (3)   No exposed lamps or bulbs, which exceed 15 watts, shall be used on
the exterior surface of any sign so as to expose the face of the bulbs, light,
or lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
   (C)   Measurement of sign. All signs shall be measured as shown in the
Illustrations section. Measurements shall include all of the area contained
within the square shown in the Illustrations section and only structural
supports shall be excluded in computing total allowable sign area. When you
have sign that is two-sided, and advertising is to be on both sides of the
sign, then the maximum size for this sign shall not exceed the maximum
allowable in the particular instance. If there is to be advertising on both
sides, for instance, on billboard; then the maximum allowable size is a total
of 300 square feet for both sides. This would indicate that 150 square feet of
sign-area would be allowable for one side. It shall be noted that the maximum
allowable sign area for any sign in this subchapter is 300 square feet.
   (D)   Location. No sign shall be attached to tree or utility pole.
   (E)   Restrictions. No sign shall be located in any manner as to obstruct or
otherwise physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic
sign, signal, or device, or obstruct, or physically interfere with motor
vehicle operator’s view of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.
   (F)   Content. Except as provided in this division, no sign shall be
approved or disapproved based on the content or message it displays. The
following content, without reference to viewpoint of the individual speaker,
shall not be displayed on signs:
      (1)   Text or graphics that is harmful to minors as defined by state or
federal law.
      (2)   Text or graphics that are obscene, fighting words, defamation,
incitement to imminent lawless action, or true threats, as such words and
phrases are defined by controlling law.
      (3)   Text or graphics that present a clear and present danger due to
their potential confusion with traffic control signs.
      (4)   Signs that provide false information related to public safety
(e.g., signs that use the words "Stop," "Yield," "Caution," or "Danger," or
comparable words, phrases, symbols, or characters that are presented in a
manner as to confuse motorists or imply a safety hazard that does not exist).
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.117 (RESERVED)
§ 93.118 ALL RESIDENTIAL, CONSERVATION AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Location. Permitted signs may be anywhere on the premises, but if wall
mounted, shall be flush mounted and shall not project above the roof line.
Freestanding signs shall be at least ten feet from any property line or right-
of-way.
   (B)   Size. A sign not exceeding two square feet in area shall be permitted,
per dwelling unit. The sign per dwelling shall indicate only the name of the
occupant and may include the address. For multiple dwellings one additional
sign totaling six square feet in area shall be permitted. The additional sign
area permitted for multiple dwelling shall only be identification of the
building.
   (C)   Home occupations or special use permits granted.
      (1)   There shall be permitted a small identification sign, being a
maximum of six square feet in size, and no larger, to identify the location of
the property as an area that has a special use permit or home occupation. See §
93.083 for setbacks of home occupation signs.
      (2)   At the time of application for the public hearing, if one is
required, the applicant shall note to the Board of Appeals that sign for
identification purposes is to be erected and in what manner, along with the
size.
   (D)   Signs for non-residential and nan-agricultural permitted uses. Signs
for non-residential and non-agricultural permitted uses in Residential,
Agricultural, and/or Conservation Districts (i.e. schools, golf courses,
churches and rectories, and the like) shall be permitted to have one square
foot of sign area for each linear foot of building frontage on a street to a
maximum of 75 square feet.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-24)
§ 93.119 BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   These sign regulations shall apply to all business zone districts except as
specifically exempted.
      (A)   Wall signs. Any business use may be permitted a wall sign for each
side of building fronting a public street. Wall signs shall not project more
than one foot from the building wall and copy shall run parallel (horizontal)
with the wall.
      (1)   Size. Maximum permitted wall sign area shall be one square foot of
sign area for each linear foot of building frontage on a street to a maximum of
300 square feet on individual street frontages.
   (B)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs shall be permitted in all
business districts.
      (1)   Area and number. An area ten feet in height, except for structural
members, shall be maintained clear of obstruction under any freestanding sign
to increase pedestrian safety, and to create a clear field of vision to
recognize the location of streets and commercial entrance and exits. One
freestanding sign per public street frontage.
      (2)   Height. Freestanding signs may not exceed 30 feet from ground
elevation except as increased by variance approval.
      (3)   Location. Any sign may be located anywhere on the premises unless
locations are given herein and provided the regulations of §
93.080 are met, and:
         (a)   No sign shall intrude into any public right-of-way and
structural supports shall be at least ten feet from any public right-of-way
line.
         (b)   Any sign shall be at least ten feet above a sidewalk and 15 feet
above driveways or alleys.
         (c)   Signs may be on the vertical faces of marquees. The bottom of a
marquee sign shall be no less than ten feet above the grade at any point. No
part of the changeable copy shall project above or below the vertical marquee
face.
   (C)   Message centers. Digital electronic message centers ("EMCs") may be
incorporated into signs as provided in this division.
      (1)   Number, design, dimensions.
         (a)   Not more than one sign with an EMC component is allowed per
street frontage.
         (b)   EMCs shall appear to be incorporated into the face of a
permanent sign that includes text or graphics that are not part of the EMC.
         (c)   EMCs shall be integrated harmoniously into the design of the
sign face and structure, shall not be the predominant element of the sign, and
if located at the top of a sign, the sign must include a substantial cap
feature above the EMC, which consists of the same material, form, color, and
texture as is found on the sign face or structure.
         (d)   Not more than 50% of the sign area of a permitted sign may be
occupied by EMCs.
      (2)   Operations.
         (a)   The message displayed on an EMC shall not change more frequently
than once per 60 seconds.
         (b)   EMCs shall contain static messages only, and animated, dissolve,
or fade transitions are not allowed.
         (c)   EMCs shall be controlled by dimming software and sensors to
adjust brightness for nighttime viewing and variations in ambient light. The
intensity of the light source shall not produce glare, the effect of which
constitutes a traffic hazard or is otherwise detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare.
   (D)   Computation. The maximum allowable area per lot for any freestanding
sign shall be based on the following formula:
 
Factor Lineal Feet of Principal Frontage Allowable Sign Area in Square Feet
2      First 50 feet                     100
1.5    Next 50 feet                      Add 75
1      Remaining distance                Max. 125
Maximum total possible is 300 square feet of sign area.
 
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.120 INCIDENTAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Definition. Signs indicating services, products, prices, trade
information, or other information not including product advertising are
incidental signs.
   (B)   Footage to public right-of-way line. No products or product containers
or incidental signs shall be closer to a public right-of-way line than ten
feet.
   (C)   Wall signs or permanently installed. All incidental signs shall be
wall signs or shall be on a permanently installed structure. If incidental
signs are wall signs, their area in square feet shall be subtracted from the
total area permitted for wall signs. Other incidental signs are deemed
freestanding and their area in square feet shall be subtracted from the total
area permitted for freestanding signs.
   (D)   One sign permitted. One incidental sign per street frontage, or
entrance or exit only is permitted.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.121 MANUFACTURING ZONE DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. For each industrial establishment one square foot of sign
area for each lineal foot of building frontage on a public street is permitted.
Freestanding and wall sign requirements are the same as in the business zones
except the maximum total area of all permitted signs shall not exceed 300
square feet.
   (B)   Location. Requirements shall be the same as for business zones.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2020- 02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.122 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Signs listed in this section are subject to the general requirements of this
chapter. These signs are classified as temporary signs. All temporary signs
shall be set back at least five feet from all property lines and must not
interfere with visibility of public rights-of-way. Each type of temporary sign
has its own display period, quantity, and/or size regulations that must be met.
   (A)   Temporary signs exempt from review or permit requirement. The
following temporary signs are not required to be reviewed by staff and do not
require a permit, but shall comply with the following regulations and the
general requirements for signage (see § 93.116). Failure to comply with these
requirements will result in an order of removal.
      (1)   Temporary window signs.
         (a)   Zoning district. Temporary window signs are allowed in all
zoning districts.
         (b)   Size. Temporary window signs shall not occupy more than 25% of
the total ground floor window area on each building facade.
         (c)   Display period. Temporary window signs are limited to a display
period of 30 days per calendar year.
      (2)   Yard signs.
         (a)   Zoning district. Temporary yard signs are allowed in all zoning
districts.
         (b)   Size. In all zoning districts, a total of ten square feet of
signage shall be permitted, with each sign not exceeding four feet in width or
four feet in height.
         (c)   Election period. During an election period, Agricultural,
Conservation, and Residential Districts, a total of 60 square feet of signage
shall be permitted, with each sign not exceeding ten square feet. Any
Agricultural or Conservation zoned property that is five acres or greater shall
be permitted to have 100 square feet of signage, with each sign not exceeding
ten square feet. In Business and Manufacturing Districts, a total of 120 square
feet of signage shall be permitted, with each sign not exceeding ten square
feet.
         (d)   Duration. Yard signs are permitted for 180 days per calendar
year.
   (B)   Temporary signs with review and permit requirement. The following
temporary signs require review by staff and a permit and must comply with the
following regulations and the general requirements for signage (see §
93.116). Failure to comply with these requirements will result in an order of
removal.
      (1)   A-frame signs.
         (a)   Zoning district. A-frame signs are allowed in non-residential
districts and in residential districts for non-residential uses.
         (b)   Location. A-frame signs may be located on the sidewalk, but must
meet the five foot setback requirement and must leave at least four feet of
sidewalk width on at least one side of the sign so as not to interfere with
pedestrian traffic or accessibility.
         (c)   Quantity. One A-frame sign is allowed per business.
         (d)   Size. A-frame signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area.
         (e)   Display period. A-frame signs may be displayed on a daily basis,
but the display shall be limited to business hours. A-frame signs must be
stored indoors at all other times. A-frame signs shall not be displayed when
severe weather conditions may create a safety risk, such as high winds or heavy
snow.
      (2)   Banners.
         (a)   Zoning district. Banners are allowed in non-residential
districts and in residential districts for non-residential uses.
         (b)   Location. Banners may be anchored on a wall, in a window, or to
posts in the front yard area as long as it meets the five foot setback from the
front property line. Banners shall not project above the roof if it is attached
to a building and shall not encroach into public rights-of-way.
         (c)   Quantity. One banner shall be allowed per business or event.
         (d)   Size. Banners shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (e)   Display period. Banners are limited to a display period of 30
days per calendar year.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-14, passed 11-19-2014; Am. Ord.
2020-02, passed 1-16-2020)
§ 93.123 INSPECTION, REMOVAL SAFETY.
   Signs for which a permit is required may be inspected periodically by the
Zoning Administrator for compliance with this and other codes of the county.
   (A)   Tagging. All signs requiring permits shall display, in a place
conspicuous to inspectors, a tag approved by the Administrator and containing
such pertinent data as he or she may designate such as name of owner, date or
erection, and size in square footage.
   (B)   Maintenance. All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good
repair and in safe, neat, clean, and attractive condition.
   (C)   Removal of sign. The Administrator may order the removal of any sign
erected or maintained in violation of this zoning code. They shall give 30-
days’ notice in writing to the owner of the sign, or of the building,
structure, or premises on which the sign is located, to remove the sign or to
bring it into compliance. The administrator may remove a sign immediately and
without notice if, in his or her opinion, the condition of the sign is such as
to present an immediate threat to the safety of the public.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.124 APPEALS.
   An owner or lessees of a sign in violation of this zoning code may appeal
the violation notice issued by the Zoning Administrator by filing a written
appeal form in the office of the Administrator within 30 calendar days of the
violation notice. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal in
accordance with their usual procedure.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.125 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   A sign shall be removed by the owner or lessee of the premises upon which
the sign is located when the business which the sign is located when the
business, which it advertises, is no longer conducted on the premises. If the
owner or lessee fails to remove it, the Zoning Administrator shall give the
owner 30-days’ written notice to remove it. Upon failure to comply with this
notice, the Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative may
remove the sign at cost to the owner. Where a successor to a business agrees in
writing to the Administrator to maintain the signs as provided in this zoning
code, this removal requirement shall not apply.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.126 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any building or land use not conforming to the provisions for the zone
district in which it is located shall comply with all the sign provisions for
the conforming zone. Signs existing at the time of the enactment of this zoning
code and not conforming to its provisions but which were constructed in
compliance with previous regulations shall be regarded as nonconforming signs.
Nonconforming signs, which are structurally altered, relocated, or replaced,
shall comply immediately with all provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.127 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Any sign existing in violation of prohibited signs of this Zoning Code shall
be removed, altered, or repaired in accordance with the Zoning Code within
three months after the date of the passage of this Zoning Code. Prohibited are
signs that:
   (A)   Contain text or graphics that is harmful to minors as defined by state
or federal law or that are obscene, fighting words, defamation, incitement to
imminent lawless action, or true threats, as such words and phrases are defined
by controlling law.
   (B)   Contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or signals.
   (C)   Are of a size, location, movement, coloring, or manner of illumination
or contain text or graphics which may be confused with or construed as a
traffic control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or
signal.
   (D)   Provide false information related to public safety (e.g., signs that
use the words "Stop," "Yield," "Caution," or "Danger," or comparable words,
phrase, symbols, or characters that are presented in a manner as to confuse
motorists or imply a safety hazard that does not exist.
   (E)   Advertise an activity, business, product, or service no longer
conducted on the premises upon which the sign is located.
   (F)   Move in any manner or have a major moving part.
   (G)   Include, contain or consist of banners, posters, pennants, ribbons,
streamers, strings, or light bulbs, spinners or other similarly moving devices.
These devices when not part of any sign are similarly prohibited, unless they
are permitted specifically by this code or any other applicable ordinances.
   (H)   May swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of wind pressure
because of the manner of their suspension or attachment.
   (I)   Mobile marquee.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-16-2020)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 93.140 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the
public streets and to promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is
put. For all buildings and structures erected in all land uses established
after the effective date of this zoning code, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by this zoning code. No part of an
off-street parking area required for any building or use for the purpose of
complying with this zoning code shall be included as a part of an off-street
parking or loading space similarly required for another building use.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.141 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Accessory uses. No motor vehicle repair work shall be permitted in
conjunction with accessory off-street parking lots or areas provided in a
residence district for a commercial or industrial use. The sale of gasoline and
motor oil when permitted, in conjunction with accessory off-street parking
areas shall be located with respect to residential properties so as not to
create a nuisance.
   (B)   Computation. When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this zoning code results in a requirement of a fractional
space any fraction of one-half or less may be disregarded, while a fraction of
or in excess of one-half shall be counted as one parking space.
   (C)   Damage or destruction. For any conforming building or use which is in
existence on the effective date of this zoning code which is damaged or
destroyed by fire, explosion, or other similar cause and which is
reconstructed, reestablished, or repaired, additional off-street parking or
loading facilities need not be provided, except the parking or loading
facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of the damage or
destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, in no case
shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in
excess of those required by this zoning code for equivalent new uses or
construction.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.142 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Access aisle and parking space requirements. Each off-street parking
space shall not be less than ten feet wide and 20 feet long, or equivalent.
      (1)   Aisles. Interior-parking aisles permitting two-way traffic shall be
a minimum of 22 feet in width. One way aisles in conjunction with 60-degree
parking shall be a minimum of 18 feet in width. Plans for other aisle widths
with other angle parking shall be as approved.
      (2)   Access to off-street parking areas in all residential zone
districts. Access to off-street parking areas in all residential zone districts
shall be a minimum of ten feet wide except, if a driveway is longer than 100
feet or serves more than the required parking for four dwelling units, the
minimum width shall be 20 feet or 2 one-way driveways each ten feet wide may be
provided in lieu of one 20-foot driveway.
      (3)   Access to off-street parking areas in all commercial and
manufacturing zones. Access to off-street parking areas in all commercial and
manufacturing zones shall be a minimum width of 24 feet or two separate
driveways, each 12 feet wide.
      (4)   Spacing. The spacing of materials or items on a lot parking
storage, or display shall be such that fire lanes are provided and, space
between large items shall be adequate to provide readily available access to
public safety personnel. Spacing arrangements shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator at the direction of the Building and Zoning Committee.
   (B)   Design standards, ingress, and egress. All parking areas in any
multiple family, business, manufacturing, or similar zone district shall be
designed or arranged so that no vehicle can have direct access to or egress
from any off-street parking space from a public right-of-way. In any instance
stated in this section, ingress to an egress from a parking space shall be from
an aisle, driveway, or similar arrangement by forward motion of the vehicle.
      (1)   No access way or lane shall be within 30 feet of any corner formed
by the intersection of the right-of traffic signal or stop sign exists, such
entrance or exit shall be located at a distance and in a manner so as not to
cause or increase traffic hazards or undue congestion.
      (2)   The alignments of access ways shall be at right angles and off-gets
are not to exceed 20 degrees.
   (C)   Design standards, lot lines. All parking aisles and parking spaces
shall be entirely within the lot lines and not on a public right-of way.
Parking spaces and loading spaces shall be so arranged that no part of any
vehicle overhangs the public right of way.
   (D)   Design standards, screening and landscaping. All open automobile
parking lots serving a commercial, industrial, institutional, or similar use
shall provide a landscaped screen, wall, or fence along those property
boundaries abutting a residential district. Such landscaped screen, wall, or
fence shall be maintained by the owner or lessee and a maintenance agreement
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. Plans for the landscaping, wall
or fence shall be approved.
   (E)   Setback. Where two lanes of off-street parking are provided between
any building and a street, in order to accommodate pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, the building shall be set back at least 75 feet from the lot line. A
six-inch vertical curb or other approved device shall be provided to separate
such off street parking areas from the public right of way. Similar parking in
the rear of a building shall require a setback of at least 64 feet.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.143 SURFACING, PARKING, STORAGE AND DISPLAY AREAS.
   (A)   Any lot or lots used as a motor freight terminal or off-street
parking, storage, and display areas shall be properly graded for drainage and
maintained in good condition free from trash and debris.
   (B)   All properties including freight terminals, off-street parking lots,
and storage and display areas which accommodates heavy trucks and other
vehicles, such as restaurants, motels, service stations, etc. shall be surfaced
with aggregate, bituminous, concrete or other similar materials and maintained
in such manner that dust, if any, emanating from such use, shall be controlled
and treated periodically so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
Calcium chloride may be used as a dust abatement material.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.144 EXISTING PARKING; LOADING FACILITIES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities which are located
on the same lot as the building or use served and which were in existence on
the effective date of this zoning code or were provided voluntarily after such
effective date shall not hereafter further be reduced below, or if already less
than, shall not further be reduced below the requirements of this zoning code
for a similar new building or use. Whenever the existing use of a building or
structure shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading
facilities shall be provided as required herein for the new use. However, if
the building or structure was erected before the effective date of this zoning
code, additional parking or loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount
by which the requirements for the new use would exceed those for the existing
use if the latter were subject to the parking and loading provision of this
zoning code.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises
shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, or other units or measurements specified herein for required
parking or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required
herein shall be provided for the increase in intensity of use.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.145 JOINT PARKING FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities for different buildings, structures, or uses,
or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively in any zoning district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted,
provided that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.146 LOCATION OF OFF STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   General; distances. The location of off-street parking spaces in
relation to the use served shall be as prescribed hereinafter. All distances
specified shall be walking distances from a main entrance of the use served to
the nearest point of the parking facility.
   (B)   For uses in residence districts. Parking spaces accessory to dwellings
shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served and may be located in
any yards except required front yards but shall be permitted in the driveway.
The private parking area shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles or the vehicles owned or operated by the occupants of the dwelling
structures. When two or more parking spaces are required there shall be an
unobstructed parking space for each vehicle such as a double garage, double
driveway, or separate parking stalls. In no instance shall a vehicle used, or
designed to be used, as a commercial, governmental, or other business type
purpose, exceeding one-ton capacity be parked in a residential area, except for
normal loading, unloading, or service, except by a special use permit. A
special use permit shall be required for a parking lot that serves an adjacent
commercial or related use, or a commercial use on a lot across the street but
not more than 200 linear feet from the use served. This use shall meet the
requirements of §§
93.162 and
93.178.
   (C)   For uses in business and manufacturing districts. All required parking
spaces shall be within 1,000 feet of the use served, except that spaces
accessory to dwelling units (other than those located in a transient hotel)
shall be within 300 feet of the use served. However, no parking spaces
accessory to a use in a business or manufacturing district shall be located in
a residence district, except that private, free, and off-street parking
accessory to such uses, may be allowed by special use permit within 500 feet of
an adjacent to any business or manufacturing district.
   (D)   Off-site parking facilities. When required parking facilities are
provided on land other than the zoning lot on which the building or use served
by such facilities is located, they shall be and remain in the same possession
or ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use to which the
parking facilities are accessory. No off-site parking facilities shall be
authorized and no building permit shall be issued where the plans call for
parking facilities other than on the same zoning lot until and unless the
Zoning Administrator has reviewed the plans, and heard the applicant, and made
findings that the common ownership or possession of the zoning lot and the site
of the parking facilities are reasonably certain to continue and that the off-
site parking facilities will be maintained at all times during the life of the
proposed use or building.
   (E)   Other uses, parking. For uses not listed in this schedule of parking
requirements, parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required
for the most similar listed use as determined by the Zoning Administrator and
as approved by the Building and Zoning Committee.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.147 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the following uses accessory off-street parking spaces shall be
provided as required hereinafter. Parking spaces required on an employee basis
shall be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both,
on the premises at one time. When employee parking is required, it shall be
provided on the basis of one space for each one and one-half employees.
Types of Uses Number of Spaces
Types of Uses                           Number of Spaces
Residential, Civic, Educational,         
Institutional
Apartments, hotels                      Two for each dwelling unit same as
                                        apartments. Employee parking required.
Churches and auditoriums                One per four seats for the largest
                                        seating area.
Elementary and Junior High Schools      One per 500 square feet of classroom
                                        area. Employee parking required.
Libraries and Museums                   One for each 500 square feet of total
                                        floor area.
                                        One for each dwelling unit or lodging
Lodging houses                          room; two for the owner or manager.
                                        Employee parking required.
Mobile home park or court               Two for each mobile home.
Multiple-family dwelling; two bedrooms  Two for each dwelling unit.
and above
Multiple-family efficiency and multi-   One and a half per dwelling unit.
family one bedroom
Municipal buildings                     Municipal buildings
Private clubs, lodges, and dormitories  One for each lodging room: in
with sleeping facilities                dormitories, each 100 square feet shall
for guests                              be considered equivalent to a lodging
                                        room.
                                        One for each 200 square feet of
Senior high school                      classroom area. Employee parking
                                        required.
Single-family dwelling                  Two for each dwelling unit.
Two-family dwelling                     Two for each dwelling unit.
Retail and Services Uses              
Automobile car wash                     On review.
Automobile service stations             On review.
Banks                                   On review.
                                        Four parking spaces shall be provided
Bowling alleys                          for each alley, plus additional spaces
                                        as maybe required herein for affiliated
                                        uses - bar, restaurant, and the like.
Drive-in restaurants                    On review.
Furniture and appliances stores,        Three times the net retail floor area
household equipment or                  in square feet.
furniture repair stores
                                        Two spaces for each 200 square feet of
Home occupations                        floor space utilized in addition to the
                                        parking requirements of the dwelling
                                        units.
Motor vehicle sales and machinery sales Employee parking required. Customer
                                        parking on review.
Municipal or privately owned recreation
building or                             On review.
community centers
                                        One parking spot shall be provided for
                                        each five seats, or for each 50 square
Restaurants/taverns                     feet of floor area used for assembly or
                                        seating purposes, whichever gives the
                                        greater number of spaces.
Retails stores, freestanding            One parking spot shall be provided for
                                        each 200 square feet of floor area.
Shopping centers and combined           Five and one-half spaces per 100 square
commercial, or service use              feet of gross leasable area.
Theaters (indoor) and stage             One parking space shall be provided for
                                        each four seats.
                                        At least ten stacking spaces or at
Theater, automobile drive-in            least 8 for each entrance at the ticket
                                        booth.
                                        Ten parking spaces shall be provided
                                        for each chapel or parlor, or one space
Undertaking establishments, funeral     for each five seats, whichever is
parlors                                 greater, plus one parking spot for each
                                        funeral vehicle kept on the premises.
                                        Employee parking required.
Office Uses                              
                                        Three parking spaces shall be provided
Business, professional, governmental    for each 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area
offices                                 plus one space for each company or
                                        business vehicle.
Industrial Uses                          
  Industrial uses of all types, except warehousing and transportation
terminals, less than 250,000 sq. ft. of gross area:
Company vehicles                        One parking space to accommodate each
                                        company owned or leased
                                        One parking space per one and one-half
                                        employees on maximum shift or not less
                                        than one parking space for each 500
                                        square feet of gross floor area; when
Employee parking                        more than one shift is employed,
                                        parking for both shifts hall be
                                        provided, unless sufficient time is
                                        allowed between shifts to provide for
                                        the maximum use of required parking.
                                        One parking space for each 25 employees
Visitor parking                         on main shift, with a minimum of two
                                        parking spaces and a maximum of 20
                                        required visitor parking spaces.
Industrial uses of all types, except warehousing and transportation terminals,
more than 250,000 sq. ft. of gross area:
                                        One parking space to accommodate each
                                        company owned truck or vehicle usually
Company vehicles                        found on the premises; size of parking
                                        shall be approved by the Zoning
                                        Administrator.
                                        One parking space per one and one-half
                                        employees on site at maximum shift, or
Employee parking                        not less than one for each 500 square
                                        feet; then one parking space for each
                                        1,000 square feet of floor area.
                                        One parking space for each 25 employees
Visitor parking                         on main shift, with a minimum of two
                                        parking spaces and maximum of 20
                                        required visitor parking spaces.
  Transportation or trucking yard terminals:
                                        One parking space to accommodate each
                                        company owned truck or vehicle usually
Company vehicles                        found on the premises; size of parking
                                        shall be approved by the Zoning
                                        Administrator.
                                        One parking space for each 1,000 square
                                        feet of warehousing, shop area, or
Employee parking                        loading area and one parking space for
                                        each driver of a company vehicle, which
                                        is dispatched from the terminal.
 
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.148 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Designation; vehicular access. Each required off-street loading space
shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or
alley in manner, which will least, interfere with traffic movements. Such
access way shall be at least 12 feet in width.
   (B)   Below minimum floor area. Uses for which off-street loading facilities
are required therein but which are located in buildings of less floor area than
the minimum for which such facilities are required shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Buffer strips. Loading space for vehicles more than two ton capacity
shall not be closer than 50 feet to any property in a residential district
unless completely enclosed by building walls, a solid fence, wall or foliage
buffer not less than ten feet in height and width.
   (D)   Location. All permitted or required loading spaces shall be located on
the same zoning lot as the use served, shall not be located within 50 feet of
the intersection of any two streets, and shall not be located within required
front yards.
   (E)   Not for parking. Space allocated to any off-street loading berth shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   (F)   Size. Unless otherwise specified, a required loading space shall be at
least ten feet in width by at least 25 feet in length and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least 14 feet, or as determined by the Zoning Administrator
such greater distances as are needed to accommodate vehicles so that no vehicle
overhangs into the public right-of-way or interferes with internal circulation.
Reasonably adequate turning and maneuvering space shall be provided in addition
to the minimum size loading berth requirements.
   (G)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
R Residence District.
   (H)   Special use, other uses. For special uses and uses other than
prescribed in this zoning code, loading spaces, adequate in number and size to
serve such use, as determined by the Zoning Administrator and approved by the
Building and Zoning Committee shall be provided.
   (I)   Surfacing. All open off-street loading space shall be improved with a
compacted stone base, not less than seven inches thick, surfaced with not less
than two inches of bituminous concrete or some comparable material with
comparable construction.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.149 LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   For the uses listed in the following table, off-street loading space shall
be provided on the basis of gross floor area of building or portions thereof
devoted to such uses in the amounts shown herein.
Total Square Feet of Gross Floor Area per Building Loading Spaces Required
Total Square Feet of Gross Floor Area per Building      Loading Spaces Required
Commercial office and industrial uses to 2,999 (see §  One
93.148(B)):
   3,000 to 19,999                                   One
   20,000 to 49,999                                  Two
   50,000 to 100,000                                 Three
   Above 100,000                                     On review
Hospitals, institutions, and similar uses:
   To 9,999 (see §
93.148(B))
   10,000 to 49,999                                  One
   50,000 to 100,000                                 Two
   Above 100,000                                     On review
 
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
APPLICATION PERMITS, INFORMATION REQUIRED FROM APPLICANT
§ 93.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to list all applications and permits and
to inform the applicant of the information that must be supplied. The
procedures for processing those applications and permits are contained in §§
93.175 through
93.182. This subchapter is designed to clarify the distinction between what
information the applicant must provide and what procedures must be followed to
process applications.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.161 SIGN, PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. No sign shall be erected, altered, or relocated
without a permit issued by the Zoning Administrator except as otherwise
provided in sections §§
93.115 through
93.126 and §
93.161(D). Where electrical permits are required, they shall be obtained at the
same time as the sign permit.
   (B)   Application. The permit application shall contain the location for the
sign structure, the name and address of the sign owner and of the sign erector,
drawings showing the design and location of the sign and such other pertinent
information as the Zoning Administrator may require to insure compliance with
this zoning code.
   (C)   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
for which the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of 90
days after the date of the permit. The permit fee shall not be refunded.
   (D)   Permit exception. The following operations shall not be considered as
creating a sign and, therefore, shall not require a sign permit:
      (1)   Replacing copy. The changing of the advertising copy or message on
an approved painted or printed sin or marquee and similar approved signs, which
are specifically designed for the use of replaceable copy.
      (2)   Maintenance. Painting, repainting, cleaning and other normal
maintenance repair of a sign or a sign structure unless a structural change is
made.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.162 AMENDMENT, SPECIAL USE AND PUD.
   (A)   Application. The applicant shall submit four copies of the application
and the application shall contain both a graphic and written description of the
proposal. Applications of less than two acres in total area or containing less
than six dwelling units may not be required to supply the information required
in divisions (A)(9), (B) (2) and (3), and (C) (1), (2), and (3) herein. The map
scale shall be one inch equal 100 feet if possible, or a scale necessary for
clarity, and if more than one map is submitted a map index is required.
      (1)   Photographs of the site (aerial photos are acceptable).
      (2)   The existing natural and topographic features of the project area
and its immediate surroundings. USGS ten-foot contour data is acceptable.
      (3)   Number of dwelling units by type and gross density per acre.
      (4)   The approximate location, size, character and number of all
proposed buildings, structures and uses.
      (5)   The location and size of proposed off-street parking, loading, and
pedestrian and vehicular traffic circulation; and its relationship to adjacent
circulation systems.
      (6)   Landscaping, erosion, and sedimentation control features.
      (7)   Location of public or private utilities and facilities proposed to
serve the subject area, including water supply, sewage, and drainage
facilitates.
      (8)   Approximate direction of drainage flows.
      (9)   Perspective, other drawings, illustrations, or photographs of
similar land uses as are necessary to indicate the relative character and
compatibility of the different land uses of the proposed development within the
immediate area as well as within the project area.
   (B)   Narrative statement. The narrative statement to accompany graphics
materials as a part of the application shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information.
      (1)   A narrative description of this section's requirements.
      (2)   The nature and extent of clearing and grading.
      (3)   A statement of the present ownership of all land within the subject
area and if a PUD, an explanation of the method of securing unified development
control throughout the PUD area, both during and after construction. Unified
control after construction shall include homeowner associations, trust
indentures, deed restrictions, and other binding agreements assuring operation
and maintenance of common lands and improvements.
      (4)   A development schedule may be required providing guidelines and
sequence for completion of the proposed development.
      (5)   A description of the economic viability of the development may be
required to include a market analysis, cash flow projections and expected types
of funding.
   (C)   Impact requirements. The applicants shall project expected impacts of
divisions (1) and (2) below and other impact projections may be required to
include but not be limited to projections of:
      (1)   Sewage generation and treatment.
      (2)   Water consumption and supply.
      (3)   Drainage facility and system requirements.
      (4)   Volume and nature of projected traffic.
      (5)   A description of the projected population, in total and by age
group categories and an explanation of the methods by which such projections
were derived.
      (6)   Anticipated kinds of commercial and industrial development and
their projected employment.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.163 SIGN AND AREA/BULK VARIANCE.
   Signs and area/bulk variance application shall contain the information
requested in §
93.162(A)(1), (2), (4) and (5) and shall meet the conditions of §
93.177(I).
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.164 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Hereinafter no land shall be occupied or used and no building erected,
altered, or extended, shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating
that the building zoning classification, building location, and proposed use
thereof complies with this zoning code. A compliance permit for a new building
or the reconstruction or alteration of an existing building shall be applied
for coincident with the application for building permit and the certificate
shall be issued within five county working days following an approved final
inspection of the premises involved.
   (B)   No nonconforming structure or use shall be extended, changed in use,
or substantially altered until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have
been issued by the Zoning Administrator. The certificate of zoning compliance
shall state specifically the particulars in which the nonconforming structure
or use differs from the provisions of this zoning code. Upon written notice
from the Administrator, owners of nonconforming uses or structures shall have
three months to apply for certificates of zoning compliance. Failure to make
such application within three months after receipt of the notice shall be
presumptive evidence that the property was not conforming use at the time
enactment or amendment of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.165 EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY.
   Emergency and temporary occupancy permits shall meet the requirements of §
93.052(D).
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.166 SPECIAL APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS FOR ZONING PERMITS IN THE GENERAL
FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The applicant shall furnish such of the following information as is
deemed necessary by the Board for determining the suitability of the particular
site for the proposed use:
      (1)   Four copies of plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill
storage or materials, flood proofing measures, and the relationship of the
above to the location of the channel.
      (2)    A typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-sectional
areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water information.
      (3)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the ground;
pertinent structure, fill, or storage elevations; size, location, and spatial
arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site; location and
elevations of streets, water supply, sanitary facilities, photographs showing
existing land uses, and vegetation upstream and downstream; soil types; and
other pertinent information.
      (4)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow line
of the stream.
      (5)   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (6)   Estimate the discharge of the regulatory flood consistent with
applicable flood plain management rules.
      (7)   Calculation of water surface elevations based upon a hydraulic
analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and over bank areas to convey
the regulatory flood.
      (8)   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood without
any measurable increase in flood heights. Computations of increases in flood
heights caused by any encroachment is to be based upon the reasonable
assumption that there will be an equal degree of encroachment on both sides of
the stream within that reach. Generally any increase in flood stages
attributable to encroachments on the flood plain of any river or stream shall
not exceed 0.5 feet in any one reach or for the cumulative effect of several
reaches.
   (B)   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans,
permits, and certificates of zoning compliance.
      (1)   Zoning permits, special issues permits or certificates of zoning
compliance issued on the basis of approved plans and applications authorize
only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in these approved plans
and applications and no other use, arrangement, and construction set forth in
these approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement, or
construction.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit certification by a registered
professional engineer that the finished fill and building floor elevations,
flood proofing, or other flood protection measures were accomplished in
compliance with this zoning code.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
APPLICATION, INSTRUCTION, PROCEDURES, AND PROCESSING
§ 93.175 PURPOSE
   The purpose of this subchapter is to consolidate all application procedures
and processing requirements. The intent is to help those involved in
application, submittal, processing and review understand the individual and
often multiple steps that applicants must follow. Any applicant making or
submitting an application concerning this Zoning Code shall make an application
to the Zoning Administrator and pay the appropriate fees. If a variance,
special use permit, rezoning, or interpretation is required, the County Board
or the Building and Zoning Committee must approve the request before
application can be made for a building permit.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.176 ROUTING.
   (A)   Copies of application to be forwarded. The Zoning Administrator shall
forward one copy of a completed application in each instance to the following
within five county working days.
      (1)   Area/bulk variance: To the Zoning Board of Appeals then to the
County Board through the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (2)   Special use permit: To the Zoning Board of Appeals then to the
County Board through the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (3)   Rezoning amendment: To the Zoning Board of Appeals then to the
County Board through the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (4)   Zoning appeal: From a decision of the Zoning Administrator to the
Zoning Board of Appeals then to the County Board through the Building and
Zoning Committee.
      (5)   Sign variance: To the Zoning Board of Appeals then to the County
Board through the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (6)   Other applications: To the Building and Zoning Committee.
      (7)   Minor Area/bulk variance: To the adjoining neighbors.
   (B)   Advisory report. The Administrator shall submit an advisory report to
the Zoning Board or Appeals concerning each application.
   (C)   Procedure of the Soil and Water Conservation District. The Zoning
Administrator shall, when appropriate, forward one copy of rezoning and special
use application to the appropriate soil and water conservation district within
five working days of application. The Soil and Water Conservation District
shall issue a written option concerning a proposed rezoning or special use
permit within 30 days from the time of receiving the application to the Board
of Appeals. If no opinion is received within 30 days, the rezoning or special
use permit shall be considered recommended by the Soil and Water Conservation
District.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.177 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Zoning Board. BOARD when used in this subchapter shall be construed to
mean the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board shall consist of five members
appointed by the Chairperson of the County Board with the advice and consent of
the County Board (55 ILCS 5/5-12010). All members of the board shall be
residents of the county at the time of their appointment. Failure to maintain
residency in the county shall be cause for removal from the Board. The County
Board may provide for the appointment of an additional two members to the Board
and the additional two members to the Board and the additional members shall
each serve a term of five years. At the end of the term of the two additional
members, the County Board may provide for the appointment of successors or may
allow the Board to revert to a membership of five. The terms of office shall be
five years, provided that the members of the first Board shall serve
respectively for the following terms (or until their successors are appointed
and qualified): One for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one
for four years, and one for five years, and five years each for those following
the first appointment. The County Board may remove any member of the Board for
cause, upon written charges, after a public hearing thereon. Variances shall be
filed by the County Board for the unexpired term of any member whose place has
become vacant. One member of the Board shall be named Chairperson by the County
Board at the time of his or her appointment. In case of a vacancy, the County
Board shall designate a new chairperson.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of
Chairperson or at such times and places within the county as may be determined.
All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public and the
Chairperson or in his or her absence the acting chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The Board shall keep minutes of
its proceedings showing the vote of each member of each question, or in absence
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep a record of its
hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the
minutes of each case of a requested area/bulk variance, special use permit, and
amendment and the reasons for recommending, granting or denying such
application shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or
repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, and interpretation, decision or
determination of the Board shall be filed immediately in the records of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt its
own rules and procedures not in conflict with this zoning code or with Illinois
Statutes.
   (C)   Advisory body. The Board of Appeals shall be an advisory body to the
County Board and final decisions on zoning permits, appeals, interpretations
and amendments are vested in the County Board.
   (D)   Zoning Board of Appeals procedure.
      (1)   The Board shall act in accordance with the procedure specified by
law and by this Zoning Code. Members of a five-member board or members of a
seven-member board shall constitute a quorum, and except as otherwise provided
by this zoning code an affirmative vote of at least of the five members or of
the seven members, whichever the case may be, shall be necessary to authorize
any action of the Board.
   (2)   All appeals and applications to the Board shall be in writing. Every
appeal or application shall refer to the specific provision of the zoning code
involved shall exactly set forth the interpretation that is claimed, the
exceptional physical conditions for which the area/ bulk variance is sought,
the use for which the special use permit is sought, and the grounds on which it
is claimed that he or she variance and permit should be granted or recommended,
as the case may be.
   (E)   Notice and hearing.
      (1)   No action. No action of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be taken
on any amendment, special use permit, variance, appeal, or advisory report
until after notice has been given that a public hearing will be held.
      (2)   Notice. A notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the county and area
in question at least 15 but not more than 30 days prior to the hearing. The
notice shall contain (a) the particular location of the real estate for which
the hearing is requested by legal description and street address, and if no
street address then by locating such real estate with reference to any well
know landmark, highway, road, thoroughfare or intersection; (b) a brief summary
of explanation of the subject matter of the hearing; (c) whether the petitioner
or applicant is acting for himself or herself or as an agent, alter ego, or
representative of a principal and the name and address of the principal; (d)
whether the petitioner or applicant is a corporation, and if so, the correct
names and addresses of all officers and directors of the corporation and of all
stockholders or shareholders owning any interest in excess of 20% of all of the
outstanding stock or shares of the corporation; (e) whether the petitioner or
applicant, or his or her principal, is a business or entity doing business
under an assumed name, and if so, the name and residence of all actual owners
of the business or entity; (f) whether the petitioner or applicant, or his or
her principal, is a partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or an unincorporated
voluntary association, and if so, the names and addresses of all partners or
members of the partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or unincorporated
voluntary association. The notice shall be sent by first class mail at least 15
days before the hearing is scheduled to the property owners of any land
adjacent to or immediately across any street, alley, or public right-of-way
from the property proposed, as recorded in the office of the county recorder of
deed, and as appears from the authentic tax records of the county and to any
municipality whose boundaries are within one and one half miles of any part of
the property proposed. The applicant shall furnish to the Zoning Administrator,
at the time the application is filed, a complete list containing the names and
last known addresses of the owners of property required to be served, a list of
all municipalities whose boundaries are within one and one half miles of any
part of the proposed property, and shall pay the cost of the public notice and
for due notice to the adjacent  property owners; (g) if the request is a
special use permit for a mobile home placement, the name of the property owner
and occupant of the mobile home shall be included in the notice.
      (3)   Posting of notice. Posting of the property for public hearing. The
notice is to be posted on the property at least ten days before the public
hearing date, and where it can be readily seen from the street or highway, in
the following manner:
         (a)   The poster must be fastened and secured to a board that can be
attached to a two by four or other anchoring device, to protect it against the
wind and other elements;
         (b)   The notice of public hearing must be placed four feet above the
ground level or above the grade of existing major highway or road, of which the
property fronts, so that the notice can be readily seen by any passerby;
         (c)   The notice of public hearing must be placed at a location which
is located within five feet of the right-of-way of the major traveled roadway
of which the property fronts;
         (d)   That if the property does not have frontage on a major road or
is so located that it is off on a private lane or roadway, the applicant must
post the notice on his or her property and make arrangements with the Board of
Appeals to meet at the site that leads to the property. This shall be on file,
before the date of the hearing and on the date of the application being filed.
Failure to comply with the proper posting will result in the cancellation of
your hearing, thereby delaying your request and imposing additional costs.
Please complete the form stating that you have posted the notice and the
sketch, as indicated, in accordance with the rules and regulation governing the
same, and return the form to this office as soon as possible.
         (e)   In the event that a public hearing involves multiple properties
that are adjacent to each other or within the same district, the applicant
shall be required to post one notice within each zoning district. Applicants
are encouraged to coordinate with the Building and Zoning Department to ensure
the notices are located in a manner which effectively advertises the zoning
hearing.
   (F)   Time for acting on applications.
      (1)   The Board shall act on an application within 60 days from receiving
the application, except that where additional information is required by the
Board, the Board shall render a written decision within 60 days from the
receipt of the information.
      (2)   If an application for a zoning amendment, variance, or special use
permit has been denied by the County Board, the same request may not be
resubmitted for one year.
   (G)   Advisory report. The Board of Appeals shall provide the Building and
Zoning Committee with an advisory report concerning variations, amendments and
special uses to include findings of fact and should recommend appropriate
conditions to prevent any detrimental effects of the proposed special uses.
Such conditions may include but not be limited to, the protection of adjacent
property, the expiration of the special use after a specified period of time,
or off-street parking and loading as shall be deemed necessary to secure the
general intent and purpose of this zoning code, and to reduce injury to the
value of property in the surrounding area.
   (H)   Appeals. An appeal may be taken to the Board by any person, firm, or
corporation, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau affected by the
decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within 30
calendar days, by filing with the Administrator a notice of the Board of
Appeals, specifying the grounds of appeal. The Administrator shall thereupon
transmit to the Board all papers constituting the appeal and the record upon
which the action appealed form was taken. An appeal shall stay all proceedings
and furtherance of action appealed from, unless the Administrator certifies to
the Board after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by reason of
fact stated in the certificate, the stay would, in his or her opinion, cause an
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings will not be
stayed otherwise than by a court of record. The Board shall select a reasonable
time and place for the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the
parties and shall render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay.
Any person may appear and testify at the hearing either in person, or by a duly
authorized agent or attorney.
   (I)   Variance conditions. No area/bulk variance shall be recommended in any
case unless the Board of Appeals finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions as fully
described in the findings, applying to the land or buildings for which the
variance is sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land
or building and do not apply generally to the land or buildings in the
surrounding area, and that circumstances or conditions are such that strict
application of this zoning code would deprive the applicant of a reasonable
permitted use of the land or building;
      (2)   That, for reasons fully set forth in the findings, the granting of
the variance is necessary for the reasonable use of land or buildings, and that
the variance is the minimum variance that will accomplish this purpose; and
      (3)   That the granting of this variance would be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this zoning code, and will not be injurious to
the surrounding area or otherwise detrimental to the character and use of
adjoining buildings and those in the vicinity, the Board, in making its
findings, shall take into account whether the condition of the subject premises
is peculiar to the lot or tract described in the petition or is merely part of
the general condition of the area.
      (4)   No variance shall be approved that constitutes a variation in use
not permitted in the district.
   (J)   A Zone variance conditions. No A Zone variance shall be approved that
does not comply with the provisions of § 1910.6 of the Rules and Regulations of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (K)   Variances for telecommunication facilities. In granting a variance for
a telecommunication facility, the board shall consider the following, and no
other matters:
      (1)   Whether, but for the granting of a variation, the service that the
telecommunications carrier seeks to enhance or provide with the proposed
facility will be less available, impaired, or diminished in quality, quantity,
or scope of coverage;
      (2)   Whether the conditions upon which the application for variations is
based are unique in some respect or, if not, whether the strict application of
the regulations would result in a hardship on the telecommunications carrier;
      (3)   Whether a substantial adverse effect on public safety will result
from some aspect of the facility's design or proposed construction, but only if
that aspect of design or construction is modifiable by the applicant;
      (4)   Whether there are benefits to be derived by the users of the
services to be provided or enhanced by the facility and whether public safety
and emergency response capabilities would benefit by the establishment of the
facility; and
      (5)   The extent to which the design of the proposed facility reflects
compliance with §
93.075 (D)(9).
   (L)   Variances for minor area-bulk. A minor area-bulk variance may be
sought meeting the following procedures and requirements. A variation of 10% or
less of the regulations of area/bulk may be granted without public hearing by
the Zoning Administrator, provided, however, that before such variation is
granted, a notice of the intent to grant such variation shall be sent by
certified mail to all adjoining landowners. If any adjoining landowner files a
written objection with the Zoning Administrator within 15 days of receipt of
such notice, the variation shall only be considered by the Board of Appeals in
the manner provided in §
93.177 (H).
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-16-2020; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.178 AMENDMENT AND SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The County Board may, from time to time, on its own motion, on
petition of any persons in interest, or on initial recommendations of the Board
of Appeals or Zoning Administrator, amend, supplement or repeal by ordinance
the regulations or provisions of this zoning code.
      (2)   Any proposed amendment shall be referred to the Board of Appeals
for an advisory report and public hearing thereon.
   (B)   Hearing on application. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public
hearing on each application for an amendment and on each proceeding initiated
by the Board of Appeals of its own motion, at such time and place in the
township in which the property is located, provided, that in the case of
general amendments to the Zoning Code hearing may be held at the County
Administration Building, Edwardsville, Illinois (see §§
93.177(E) and
93.178(F)).
   (C)   Action by the County Board. The county Board shall not act on any
application for special use permit, variation, or amendment to this Zoning Code
until a written report, consisting of a finding of fact and recommendation of
the Board of Appeals, shall have been made available to the county Board on the
proposed special use permit, variation, or amendment.
   (D)   Approval.
      (1)   After appropriate action by the Board or Appeals, the County Board
may, by a majority vote, approve or adopt any proposed special use permit,
variation, or amendment except in the following cases only, which require the
favorable action of three-fourths of all members of the County Board:
         (a)   Any proposed variation that fails to receive the approval of the
Board of Appeals;
         (b)   In case of written protest against any proposed amendment or
special use permit signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage
proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
directly opposite frontage proposed to be altered. Provided, the protest shall
not be effective unless it specifically states that the owners listed thereon
are owners of 20% or more of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an
alley therefrom, or that they are owners of 20% or more of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered. Further provided, the
written protest shall not be effective unless it is filed with and stamped by
the County Clerk and submitted to the Building and Zoning Department prior to
the consideration of the amendment or special use permit by the County Board.
Additionally, a copy of the written protest is served by the protestor or
protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendment or special use permit
and a copy on the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the
address of the applicant and attorney as shown in the application for the
proposed amendment or special use permit.
         (c)   In cases where the land affected by a proposed amendment lies
within one and one-half miles of the limit of a zoned municipality, or in the
case of a proposed text amendment to the zoning code, where a resolution in
opposition to the proposed amendment by the corporate authorities of the zoned
municipality with limits nearest adjacent has been filed with the County Clerk
prior to the consideration of the amendments by the County Board and a copy of
the resolution is served by the municipality on the applicant for the proposed
amendment and a copy on the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at
the address of such applicant and attorney as shown in the application for the
proposed amendment.
      (2)   If an application for a proposed special use permit, variation, or
amendment is not acted upon finally and favorably by the County Board within
120 days of the time of submission of the report of the Board of Appeals, the
application shall be deemed to have been denied.
      (3)   The County Board may approve a special use permit or variation with
or without change in the terms of conditions thereof.
   (E)   Special use. Application or any use listed n this zoning code as
requiring a special use permit may be allowed only upon application to the
Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and upon issuance of a
special use permit by the County Board. Upon receipt of the application, the
Zoning Administrator shall forthwith submit it to the Board and a public
hearing shall be held (See §
93.177 (E)).
   (F)   Procedure to be followed by Board in reviewing special uses and
amendments. Upon receiving an application, the Board shall, prior to rendering
a decision thereof, consider at least the following:
      (1)   The effect the development would have on schools, traffic, streets,
shopping, public utilities, and adjacent properties;
      (2)   Is the application necessary for the public convenience at that
location;
      (3)   In the case of an existing nonconforming use, will a special use
permit make the use more compatible with its surroundings;
      (4)   Is the application so designed, located, and proposed to be
operated that the public health, safety, and welfare will be protected;
      (5)   Will the application cause injury to the value or other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located; and
      (6)   Will the special use be detrimental to the essential character of
the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-15-2024)
§ 93.179 SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL USES IN THE GENERAL FLOOD PLAIN
DISTRICT.
   (A)   In considering an application for a special use permit in the General
Flood Plain District, the Board shall transmit one copy of the application
described in §§
93.162 and
93.166 to a designated engineer or other person or agency from which the Board
shall request expert technical assistance in determining whether the proposed
use is located in the floodway or flood fringe portion of the General Flood
Plain District, in determining the regulatory flood elevation; and, in
evaluation the proposed project in relation to flood heights and velocities,
the seriousness of potential flood damage to the use, and the adequacy of the
plans for protection and other technical matters. Based upon this technical
evaluation, the board shall, where necessary:
      (1)   Determine the specific flooding threat at the site of the proposed
special use permit and determine whether the use is located in a floodway or
flood fringe portion of the General Flood Plain District.
      (2)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the Board shall determine the specific flood hazard at the site and
shall evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the flood
hazard.
   (B)   Factors upon which the decision of the Board shall be based. In
passing upon such applications, the Board shall not recommend a special use
permit that is contrary to relevant factors specified in this zoning code and
shall consider.
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent the occurrence of disease, contamination, and
unsanitary condition.
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the county.
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for the area.
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
      (12)   Such other factors as are relevant to the purposes of this zoning
code including a flood warning system.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.180 CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Board may recommend conditions. Upon consideration of the factors
listed above and the purposes of this zoning code, the Board may recommend that
the County Board may attach such conditions to the granting of special uses or
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this zoning code.
Among such conditions, without limitation because of specific enumeration, may
be included:
      (1)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      (2)   Limitations on periods of use and operation.
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees and other protective measures.
   (B)   Flood proofing measures. Flood proofing measures such as the following
shall be designed at or above a point two feet above the regulatory flood
elevation for the particular area, flood velocities, durations, rate of rise,
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, and other factors associated with the
regulatory flood. The Board shall require that the application submit a plan or
document certified by a registered professional engineer that the flood-
proofing measures are at or above a point two feet above the regulatory flood
elevation and associated flood factors for the particular area. The following
flood proofing measures may be required without limitation because of specific
enumeration.
      (1)   Anchorage to resist flotation and lateral movement or addition of
mass or weight to structures to resist flotation.
      (2)   Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads, and shutters, or
similar methods of construction.
      (3)   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures.
      (4)   Use paints, membranes, or mortars to reduce seepage of water
through walls.
      (5)   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures.
      (6)   Construction of water supply and waste treatment systems so as to
prevent the entrance of flood waters.
      (7)   Pumping facilities or comparable practices for subsurface drainage
systems for buildings to relieve external foundation wall and basement flood
pressures.
      (8)   Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water pressure
or floating debris.
      (9)   Installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains
which will permit drains to be closed to prevent back up of sewage and storm
waters into the buildings or structures. Gravity drainage of basements may be
eliminated by mechanical devices.
      (10)   Location of all electrical equipment, circuits, and installed
electrical appliances so as to provide protection from inundation by the
regulatory flood.
      (11)   Location of any structural storage facilities for chemicals,
explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, or other toxic materials
which could be hazardous to public safety and welfare at a point above the
regulatory flood elevation or their flood proofing so as to prevent flotation
of storage containers, or damage to these which would result in the escape of
toxic materials into flood waters.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.181 SPECIAL USE PERMIT CHANGES.
   After a special use permit has been issued, expansion or change in use of a
special use involving the enlargement of the buildings, structures, and land
area devoted to such use shall be subject to the following;
   (A)   Minor changes in a developmental plan may be made upon application to
the Building and Zoning Committee;
   (B)   Major changes in the developmental plan require total review and
reapplication.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.182 REVOCATION; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Revocation of permit. The Building and Zoning Committee may revoke a
permit issued under this subchapter if:
      (1)   The proposal for which a permit has been issued is not carried out
pursuant to the approved final site plan or land use;
      (2)   If any condition or requirement included in the permit is not
complied with; or
      (3)   A permit issued under this subchapter shall expire if the proposal
authorized by the permit is not completed within the developmental schedule
included in the application.
   (B)   Revocation procedures.
      (1)   Should there be a reason to believe that a permit issued under this
subchapter is subject to revocation, under this division (B), then the Zoning
Administrator may initiate an investigation into the matter; or the County
Board, the Committee, or other board members may direct the Administrator to
conduct such an investigation.
      (2)   The fining of fact through this investigation of possible permit
violation by the Administrator, must be forwarded to the Committee. The
Committee may then, by majority vote of the entire Committee, direct the Board
of Appeals to conduct hearing at the site of the property in question or as
nearly as practicable should the property owner object; the hearing shall have
the same notice as provided in §
93.177(E) and (F). This hearing shall be conducted in the same manner as a
hearing on the original permit.
      (3)   The Board of Appeals shall provide the Committee with an advisory
report related to the issues in division (A) herein. This report shall include
the finding of fact, and shall state a recommendation as to whether or not to
revoke the permit in question.
      (4)   The Committee shall present the advisory report of the Board of
Appeals to the County Board. No permit issued under this subchapter shall be
revoked without a majority vote of the County Board.
      (5)   Should the Board of Appeals recommend that the permit issued under
this subchapter not be revoked, the permit shall only be revoked by a vote of
three-fourths of all of the members of the County Board.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.188 OTHER APPLICABLE ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of the Madison County Code of Ordinances shall apply to
zoning applications and may be administered as part of or subsequent to the
zoning review process. This applies to all construction and development codes,
specifically including but not limited to subdivision, stormwater, building,
private sewage, mobile home, business, and health codes.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 93.189 WATER SUPPLY AND FIRE PROTECTION.
   All buildings or developments shall adhere to water supply and fire
protection requirements, which may require improvements including public water
supply systems, fire hydrants, sprinkler systems, or other fire protection
devices, as per the building, plumbing, and fire codes adopted as part of the
Madison County Code of Ordinances and any fire code adopted by an applicable
Fire Protection District.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-16-2016)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.195 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator of the county, with the approval and consent of the
Building and Zoning Committee, shall enforce this zoning code. The Committee
shall further consult other county departments, agencies and committees, as
appropriate in their review. These agencies, departments, and committees
include, but are not limited to, the County Maps and Plats Department, the
County Environmental Protection Agency, and the County Superintendent of
Highways.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.196 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Powers. The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce this
zoning code, and in addition thereto and in furtherance of his or her authority
he or she shall:
      (1)   Issue and receive all applications, permits, licenses, and
certificates authorized under the terms of this zoning code only when all
provisions of the zoning code have been complied with.
      (2)   Examine and review applications pertaining to the use of land,
building, or structures s appropriate and examine all building permits for
conformity with this zoning code.
      (3)   Forward for action to the appropriate review body all special use,
variance, amendment and other applications with all pertinent documentation
required.
      (4)   Conduct or have conducted such inspections as are necessary to
determine compliance with the terms of this zoning code.
      (5)   Provide and maintain public information bureau relative to all
matters arising out of this zoning code.
      (6)   Maintain permanent and current records of all the above including
maps and amendments to this zoning code.
   (B)   Notices, hearings, and orders. Whenever the Zoning Administrator has
determined from inspection or from other means that reasonable grounds exist to
believe there has been a violation of the zoning code the Administrator shall
give notice of the violation to the person to whom the permit or license is
issued. This notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasonable time for the performance of
any act it requires;
      (3)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon the owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address or when he or she has been
served with the notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of this
state; and
      (4)   Contains an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will
affect compliance with this zoning code.
   (C)   Reinspection. At the end of such period, the Zoning Administrator
shall reinspect the violation and if the conditions or practices have not been
corrected he or she shall submit the file concerning the violation to the
Building and Zoning Committee to determine subsequent appropriate actions.
   (D)   Stop order. Whenever any building or grading work is being done, or
uses established, altered, or otherwise changed in a manner contrary to this
zoning code, the approved permit, or site plan, the Zoning Administrator or
other authorized person may order the work stopped by notice in writing served
on any person engaged in doing or causing the work to be done and any such
person shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Administrator to
proceed.
   (E)   Staying of work on premises. When an appeal from the decision of the
Administrator concerning a stop order has been taken and filed with the Board
of Appeals, the stop order shall not take effect unless the Administrator
certifies to the Board that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, the stop
order is granted by the Circuit Court of Madison County, on application, on
notice to the Administrator and the owner of the premises affected, and on due
cause show.
   (F)   Emergency action. Whenever the Administrator finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health or safety,
he or she may without notice of hearing issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and require that such action be taken as he or she may
deem necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension of zoning permit.
He or she shall immediately notify the Building and Zoning Committee of the
County Board of such action. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
zoning code, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such
an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to
the Administrator shall be afforded a hearing as soon as possible under §
93.177(H).
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 93.197 PROSECUTION.
   Whenever violation of this zoning code occurs, any person, including the
Zoning Administrator or any other duly authorized county official or personnel
in addition to and not by way of limitation of other remedies available, may
file complaint in the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits
neglects, or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this zoning code shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$500. Each day such a violation or failure to comply is permitted to exist
after notification thereof shall constitute separate offense.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building or
land is used in violation of this chapter or any ordinance, resolution or other
regulation made under authority conferred thereby, the proper authorities of
the county, or any person the value or use of whose property is or may be
affected by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings in the Circuit Court to prevent such unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration repair conversion,
maintenance or use, to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent
the occupancy of said building, structure or land or to prevent any illegal
act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
APPENDIX A: CORNER LOT AND SIGN AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.jpg]
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
APPENDIX B: FENCING
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.jpg]
(Ord. 2014-18, passed 4-16-2014)
CHAPTER 94: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Base flood elevation
   
94.04   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
94.05   Development permit
   
94.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
94.07   Protecting buildings
   
94.08   Subdivision requirements
   
94.09   Public health and other standards
   
94.10   Carrying capacity and notification
   
94.11   Variances
   
94.12   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the powers granted to the county by the
Illinois Counties Code, 55 ILCS 5/5-1041 and 5/5-1063. The purpose of this
chapter is to maintain this county's eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program; to minimize potential losses due to periodic flooding
including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare; and to preserve
and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic and natural values
and provide for the wise utilization of water and related land resources. This
chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To meet the requirements of 615 ILCS 5/18(g) Rivers, Lakes and Streams
Act;
   (B)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (C)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (D)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (E)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (F)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (G)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (H)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
   (I)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available by fulfilling
the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program; and
   (J)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, all words used in this chapter shall have
their common meanings. The word "shall" means the action is mandatory.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A non-habitable building, used only for parking of
vehicles or storage, that is on the same parcel of property as the principal
building and which is incidental to the use of the principal building.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed structure used exclusively for
agricultural purposes or uses in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock,
including aquatic organisms. Structures that house tools or equipment used in
connection with these purposes or uses are also considered to have agricultural
purposes or uses.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is often referred to as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
94.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The height in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified) of the crest of
the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any portion of the building, including any sunken room or sunken
portion of a room, having its floor below ground level (subgrade) on all sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground including manufactured homes and
prefabricated buildings. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter providing FEMA's
comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction, affect the
hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in
the modification of the existing floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
   DAM. All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts, or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Redevelopment of a site, clearing of land as an adjunct of
construction;
         (f)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (g)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (h)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include resurfacing of pavement when there is
no increase in elevation; construction of farm fencing; or gardening, plowing,
and similar practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of
levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been constructed.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-
79, as amended.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waters, or from the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD also includes the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by
waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly
caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied
by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood
or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable
event which results in a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by the FEMA that depicts the
floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map
includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict floodways and show
BFEs.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These two terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of Madison County; that are
subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of Madison County are
generally identified as such on panel number(s); 1704360010B, 1704360015B,
1704360020B, 1704360025B, 1704360030B, 1704360035B, 1704360040B, 1704360045B,
1704360050B, 1704360055B, 1704360060B, 17043600650B, 1704360070B, 1704360075B,
1704360080B, 1704360085B, 1704360090B, 1704360095B, 1704360100B, 1704360105B,
1704360110B, 1704360115B, 1704360120B, 1704360125B, 1704360130B, 1704360135B,
1704360140B, 1704360145B, 1704360150B, 1704360155B, and 1704360160B; of the
FIRM of Madison County; prepared by the FEMA and dated April 15, 1982.
Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the
community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the FEMA that is used to
certify that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally
dry flood proofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPF). The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the floodplains of each of the remaining
floodplains of Madison County should be according to the best data available
from federal/ state/ or other sources shall be as delineated on the Flood
Boundary and Floodway Maps of Madison County panel number(s); 1704360010,
1704360025, 1704360030, 1704360035, 1704360045, 1704360050, 1704360055,
1704360060, 1704360065, 1704360070, 1704360075, 1704360080, 1704360090,
1704360095, 1704360100, 1704360105, 1704360110, 1704360115, 1704360125 and
1704360130 prepared by FEMA and dated April 15, 1982. The floodways for each of
the remaining floodplains of the county shall be according to the best data
available from the federal, state, or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the BFE to provide a factor of
safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed development, unknown
localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those
caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. IDNR/OWR has jurisdiction over any stream
serving a tributary area of 640 acres or more in an urban area, or in the
floodway of any stream serving a tributary area of 6,400 acres or more in a
rural area. Construction on these streams requires a permit from the IDNR/OWR.
(Ill Admin. Code tit. 17, pt. 3700.30). The IDNR/OWR may grant approval for
specific types of activities by issuance of a statewide permit which meets the
standards defined in §
94.06.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). Official determination by FEMA that a
specific building, defined area of land, or a parcel of land, where there has
not been any alteration of the topography since the date of the first NFIP map
showing the property within the floodplain, was inadvertently included within
the floodplain and that the building, defined area of land, or a parcel of land
is removed from the floodplain.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). Letter that revises BFEs, floodplains or
floodways as shown on an effective FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of § 94.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A building, transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NGVD 29.  National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size, when measured at the
largest horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE (see BUILDING). The results of a man-made change to the land
constructed on or below the ground, including a building, as defined in this
section, any addition to a building; installing utilities, construction of
roads or similar projects; construction or erection of levees, walls, fences,
bridges or culverts.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during a ten year period equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred regardless
of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included
in this determination. The term includes REPETITIVE LOSS BUILDINGS (see
definition).
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure taking place during a ten year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator appointed by the Madison
County Board and such deputies or assistants as have been or shall be duly
appointed. The duties of the Zoning Administrator may be delegated to a duly
authorized agent or assistant as consistent with this Code of Madison County,
Illinois.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 94.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below.
   (A)   The BFE for the floodplains of all studied rivers, creeks and streams
within the community shall be as delineated on the base flood profiles in the
Flood Insurance Study of Madison County prepared by the FEMA and dated April
15, 1982.
   (B)   The BFE for each floodplain delineated as an "AH Zone" or "AO Zone"
shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the FIRM of Madison County.
   (C)   The BFE for each of the remaining floodplains delineated as an "A
Zone" on the FIRM of Madison County shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state, or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine BFEs.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 94.04 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general administration
of this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of Madison County meet the requirements of
this chapter. Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
   (A)   Check all new development sites to determine if they are in the
floodplain using the criteria listed in §
94.03, base flood elevation or for critical facilities, using the 0.2% annual
chance flood elevation, if defined.
   (B)   Process development permits and any permit extensions in accordance
with §
94.05 and ensure all development activities happen in a timely manner.
   (C)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
94.06.
   (D)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
94.07 are met and maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement), elevation certificate, or floodproofing
certificate.
   (E)   Review elevation certificates for accuracy and require incomplete or
deficient certificates to be corrected.
   (F)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
94.08 and notify FEMA in writing whenever the corporate boundaries have been
modified by annexation.
   (G)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
94.09.
   (H)   It a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
94.11 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted.
   (I)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in §
94.99 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (J)   Ensure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits; including permits pertaining to
IDNR/OWR floodway and dam safety rules, Clean Water Act, Public Water Supply,
Endangered Species Act, Illinois Endangered and Species Protection Act.
   (K)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse.
   (L)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques.
   (M)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter.
   (N)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and any other documentation of compliance
for development activities subject to this chapter.
   (O)   Notify FEMA and IDNR/OWR of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   (P)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain.
   (Q)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the BFE or result in a change to the floodplain
map.
   (R)   Schedule an annual inspection of the floodplain and document the
results of the inspection.
   (S)   Establish, procedures for administering and documenting
determinations, as outlined below, of substantial improvement and substantial
damage:
      (1)   Determine the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building before the start of construction of the proposed work. In the case
of repair, the market value of the building shall be the market value before
the damage occurred and before any repairs are made.
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building.
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or substantial damage.
      (4)   Notify property owner of all determinations and responsibilities
for permitting and mitigation.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 94.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Development permits.
      (1)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
law, shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body shall commence
any development of a critical facility on land below the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation without first obtaining a development permit from the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall only issue a permit for development
activities, including new construction and substantial improvements, which meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A site plan or drawings, drawn to scale using NG VD 29, showing:
         (a)   Property lines and dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations;
         (c)   All changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling;
         (d)   Description of the benchmark or source of survey elevation
control;
         (e)   Sewage disposal facilities;
         (f)   Water supply facilities;
         (g)   Floodplain limits based on elevation or depth, as applicable;
         (h)   Floodway limits, as applicable;
         (i)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (j)   The location and dimensions of all structures, including but not
limited to fences, culverts, decks, gazebos, agricultural structures, and
accessory structures; and
         (k)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
94.07.
      (2)   Cost of project or improvements, including all materials and labor,
as estimated by a licensed engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a
contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the BFE.
      (1)   Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation
to be below the current BFE is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Any development located on land shown to be below the BFE and
hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as floodplain on
the current FIRM, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current BFE and which has not been filled after the date of
the site's first flood map showing the site in the floodplain, is not located
in a mapped floodway, or located in a Zone A, is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the provisions of this chapter. A LOMR-Floodway is
required before developing land inadvertently included in a mapped floodway.
Unless a LOMR is obtained, all ordinance provisions apply if the land is
located in a Zone A.
      (4)   Any development located on land that is above the current BFE but
will be graded to an elevation below the BFE, is subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain documentation of the
existing ground elevation at the development site and certification that this
ground elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first FIRM
identification.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for obtaining from
the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals
or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity.
The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state, and local permits have been obtained.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for a critical facility, the Zoning
Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the 0.2% annual chance
flood elevation, if available. Refer to §
94.09(A)(5) for critical facility site requirements.
   (E)   A development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
actual start of construction, as defined, for work authorized by such permit,
is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized is
suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the work commences. All
permitted work shall be completed within 12 months after the date of issuance
of the permit or the permit shall expire. Time extensions, of not more than 180
days each, may be granted, in writing, by the Zoning Administrator. Time
extensions shall be granted only if the original permit is compliant with this
chapter and the FIRM and FIS in effect at the time the extension is granted.
   (F)   Certification and as-built documentation.
      (1)   The applicant is required to submit certification by a licensed
professional engineer or registered land surveyor that the finished fill and
building elevations were accomplished in compliance with §
94.07 of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be certified by a registered
professional engineer or registered architect as being compliant with
applicable floodproofing standards. Accessory structures designed in accordance
with §
94.07 are exempt from certification, provided sufficient compliance with the
development permit are documented. FEMA elevation certificate and flood
proofing certificate forms are required as documentation of compliance.
      (2)   An as-built grading plan, prepared by a registered professional
engineer is required to certify that any development in floodplain, such as
grading or the construction of bridges or culverts, are in substantial
conformance with the development permit.
      (3)   No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in any
manner until a letter or certificate has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator. Stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator must maintain records in perpetuity
documenting compliance with this chapter, including the elevation to which
structures and alterations to structures are constructed or floodproofed.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within any floodway identified on the county floodway maps, and within all
other floodplains identified on the county FIRMs where a floodway has not been
delineated, the following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 2.
      (2)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3.
      (3)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4.
      (4)   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 5.
      (5)   Minor, non-obstructive activities such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 6.
      (6)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7.
      (7)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 8.
      (8)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 9.
      (9)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10.
      (10)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11.
      (11)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12.
      (12)   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 13.
      (13)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work in an IDNR/OWR Jurisdictional
Streams by IDNR/OWR (or written documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR
permit is not required); or
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and BFE.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
§
94.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building.
      (2)   Value of improvements equals or exceeds the market value by 50% or
structural alterations made to an existing building that increase the floor
area by more than 20%. Improvements shall be figured cumulatively during a ten-
year period. If substantially improved, the existing structure and the addition
must meet the flood protection standards of this section.
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten-year period. If substantially
damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site.
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year.
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
94.02.
      (7)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building with the low floor below BFE; following a
LOMR-F in accordance with the conditions outlined in §
94.09(E).
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill with the
lowest floor including basement at or above the FPE in accordance with the
following conditions:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
FPE.
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least 20 feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the PTE in lieu of a geotechnical report.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material.
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques, such as swales or basins, shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood
waters.
         (b)   All components located below the FPE shall be constructed of
materials resistant to flood damage.
         (c)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment shall be located at or above the FPE.
         (d)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the FPE shall
provide for equalization of hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. At least two walls must have a minimum of one
permanent opening that is below the BFE and no more than one foot above
finished grade. The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the BFE, or the design must be certified by a Registered P.E, as
providing the equivalent performance in accordance with accepted standards of
practice. Refer to FEMA TB 1, Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of
Enclosures, for additional guidance.
         (e)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            1.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the FPE
provided they are waterproofed.
            2.   The area below the FPE shall be used solely for parking or
building access and not later modified or occupied as habitable space.
            3.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      (3)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
FPE provided that the following conditions and requirements of FEMA TB 11,
Crawlspace Construction for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard Areas,
which ever are more restrictive, are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   All enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide for equalization
of hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. A minimum of one permanent opening shall be provided on at least
two walls that is below the BFE and no more than one foot above finished grade.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the BFE,
or the design must be certified by a Registered P.E. as providing the
equivalent performance in accordance with accepted standards of practice. Refer
to FEMA TB 1, Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for
additional guidance;
         (c)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         (d)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (e)   Portions of the building below the FPE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (f)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
FPE.
   (C)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the FPE the structure and attendant utility facilities are
watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood.
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (4)   Levees, berms, floodwalls, and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division.
   (D)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the FPE in accordance with §
97.07(B); and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
Mobile Home Tie-down Act (210 1LCS 120/1) issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code
§ 870.
   (E)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of §
94.07(D) unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck.
      (2)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (3)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (4)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (5)   The vehicles having a total area not exceeding 400 square feet
measured when measured at the largest horizontal projection.
      (6)   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (7)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      (8)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect.
      (9)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model, and must either:
         (a)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (F)   Detached accessory structures may be permitted provided the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The structure must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The structure must be used only for the parking and storage and
cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The structure must be located outside of the floodway or have the
appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      (4)   The exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e.,
foundation, wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below
the BFE, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance §
94.07.
      (5)   All utilities, mechanical, and electrical must be elevated above
the FPE.
      (6)   The structure must have at least one permanent opening on at least
two walls not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      (7)   The structure must be no more than one story in height and no more
than 600 square feet in size.
      (8)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation, collapse,
lateral movement. And overturning.
      (9)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the FPE.
      (10)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   The County Board shall take into account hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §
94.06 and §
94.07.
   (B)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains should be included within parks,
open space parcels, or other public grounds.
   (C)   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The BFE and the boundary of the floodplain, where the BFE is not
available from an existing study, the applicant shall be responsible for
calculating the BFE.
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway, when applicable.
      (3)   A signed statement by a Licensed Professional Engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §
94.06 and §
94.07, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless such materials are
stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and certified by a
professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of §
94.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the FPE shall be watertight.
      (5)   (a)   Critical facilities, which are buildings, constructed or
substantially improved within the floodplain or the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation when defined, shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation or three feet above the BFE, whichever is greater. Adequate parking
shall be provided for staffing of the critical facilities at or above the BFE
or 0.2% chance flood, when defined. Access routes to all critical facilities
should be reviewed and considered when permitting. Access routes should be
elevated to or above the level of the BFE.
         (b)   Floodproofing and sealing measures may also be used to provide
protection, as described in §
94.07, and must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced
by or released into floodwaters.
         (c)   Critical facilities include emergency services facilities such
as; fire and police stations, schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior
care facilities, sewage treatment plants and water treatment plants, specific
roads and bridges required for evacuation, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). All
other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not to alter
flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
   (B)   Dams are classified as to their size and their hazard/damage potential
in the event of failure. Permits for dams may be required from IDNR/OWR.
Contact IDNR/OWR to determine if a permit is required. If a permit is required,
a permit application must be made to IDNR/OWR prior to the construction or
major modification of jurisdictional dams.
   (C)   Letters of map revision. 
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall require a CLOMR prior to issuance of
a development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that will cause an increase in
the BFE; and
         (b)   Proposed development which will increase the BFE by more than
0.1 feet in riverine area where FEMA has provided a BFE but no floodway.
      (2)   Once a CLOMR has been issued, the development permit may be issued
for site grading and structures necessary in the area of the map change to
achieve the final LOMR. Upon completion, the applicant shall submit as-built
certifications, as required by FEMA, to achieve a final LOMR prior to the
release of final development permits. Review § 94.09(E) for the construction of
buildings in any floodplain issued a LOMR Based on fill.
   (D)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue such a permit unless
the applicant has demonstrated that the building will be reasonably safe from
flooding. When construction of a building following a LOMR Based on fill is
requested, the condition where a site in the floodplain is removed due to the
use of fill to elevate the site above the BFE, the applicant may apply for a
permit from Madison County to construct the lowest floor of a building below
the BFE in the floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall require a
professional certification from a qualified design professional that indicates
the land or buildings are reasonably safe from flooding, according to the
criteria established in FEMA TB 10. Professional certification may come from a
professional engineer, professional geologist, professional soil scientist, or
other design professional qualified to make such evaluations.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain records, available upon
request by FEMA, all supporting analysis and documentation used to make that
determination, including but not limited to, all correspondence, professional
certification, existing and proposed grading, sump pump sizing, foundation
plans, elevation certificates, soil testing and compaction data.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, Madison County shall notify adjacent communities in
writing 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 94.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   No variances shall be granted within a floodway if any increases in
the base flood elevation would result.
   (B)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning
Administrator for a variance. The Zoning Administrator shall review the
applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
County Board or appropriate committee. The County Board may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
purposes and objectives of this chapter. The County Board shall base the
determination on:
      (1)   Technical justifications submitted by the applicant.
      (2)   The staff report, comments, and recommendations submitted by the
Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   The limitations, considerations, and conditions set forth in this
section.
   (C)   The findings of fact and conclusions of law made by the County Board
according to division (A) of this section, the notifications required by
division (B) of this section, and a record of hearings and evidence considered
as justification for the issuance of all variances from this chapter shall be
maintained by the county in perpetuity.
   (D)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates and the
County Board finds that all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship by rendering the lot undevelopable.
      (3)   The variance granted is the minimum necessary, considering the
flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, public safety,
destruction of beneficial stream uses and functions including, aquatic habitat,
causation of fraud on or victimization of the public, conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances, or creation of a nuisance.
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, lost environmental stream uses and
functions, repairs to streambeds and banks, or repairs to roads, utilities, or
other public facilities.
      (6)   The circumstances of the property are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
      (7)   Good and sufficient cause has been shown that the unique
characteristics of the size, configuration, or topography of the site renders
the requirements of this chapter inappropriate.
      (8)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of § 94.07
that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage.
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property.
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (F)   Considerations for review. In reviewing applications for variances,
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all other portions of these
regulations, and the following shall be considered:
      (1)   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other lands
resulting in further injury or damage.
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed development, including contents,
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on current and future owners.
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed development
to the community.
      (5)   The availability of alternate locations for the proposed
development that are not subject to flooding or erosion.
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed development with existing and
anticipated development.
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive
plan and floodplain management program for that area.
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (9)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and debris
and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, streets, and
bridges.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances issued for the reconstruction, repair,
or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in "Historic
Structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of § 94.06 and § 94.07 subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure.
   (H)   Agriculture structures. Variances issued for the construction or
substantial improvement of agricultural structures which do not meet the non-
residential building requirements of § 94.07(B) and (C), provided the
requirements of divisions (A) through (G) of this section and the following are
satisfied:
      (1)   A determination that the proposed agricultural structure:
         (a)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production,
harvesting, storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities, or storage
of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses, and will
be restricted to such exclusive uses.
         (b)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function).
         (c)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health,
safety, and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not
limited to the effects of flooding on liquefied natural gas terminals, and
production and storage of highly volatile, toxic, or water-reactive materials.
         (d)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of
division (H)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Wet floodproofing construction requirements. Wet floodproofed
structures shall:
         (a)   The exterior and interior building components and elements
(i.e., foundation, wall framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring,
etc.) below the BFE, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
94.07.
         (b)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         (c)   All enclosed areas below the FPE shall provide for equalization
of hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. A minimum of one permanent opening shall be provided on at least
two walls that is below the BFE and no more than one foot above finished grade.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the BFE,
or the design must be certified by a Registered P.E. as providing the
equivalent performance in accordance with accepted standards of practice. Refer
to FEMA TB 1, Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for
additional guidance.
         (d)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the BFE or floodproofed so that they are contained within a
watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of resisting damage during
flood conditions in accordance with §
94.07.
         (e)   If located in a floodway, must be issued a state floodway
permit, and comply with §
94.06.
         (f)   The building may not be used for manure storage or livestock
confinement operations.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the County of Madison or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter, or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning Administrator may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten days from the date the written notice is
issued, to correct the violation:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall make application to the circuit
court for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such
other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   (B)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in
writing, indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The
stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (3)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Madison County Code Adjudication Hearing
Officer. Written notice of such hearing shall be served on the permittee and
shall state the grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation, and the time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Madison
County Code Adjudication Hearing Officer shall determine whether the permit
shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Zoning Administrator from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-7-2022)
TITLE XI: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
110.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
      
111.   SANITARY LANDFILL CODE
      
112.   RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING CODE
      
113.   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
      
114.   STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
115.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 110: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
Section
Private Sewage Disposal
   
110.001   Short title
   
110.002   Purpose
Adoption of Regulatory Codes
   
110.015   Incorporation of certain documents and information by reference
Applications, Permits and Administration
   
110.030   Permit required
   
110.031   Permit specifications
   
110.032   Application forms for permits
   
110.033   Private sewage plats
   
110.034   Time limit for action on applications
   
110.035   Refusal to grant permit
   
110.036   Fee charged
   
110.037   Permit valid for six months
   
110.038   Variances
   
110.039   Inspections
   
110.040   Notice of violation
   
110.041   Appeals
Additional Requirements
   
110.055   Approved systems
   
110.056   Unapproved systems
   
110.057   Connections to public sewer required
   
110.058   Disposal field requirements
Aeration System Requirements
   
110.070   Specifications for aerated treatment systems
   
110.071   Aeration treatment effluent discharge requirements
   
110.072   Water quality of effluent
   
110.073   Chlorination of effluent
Contractor’s Registration
   
110.085   Registration
   
110.086   Revocation of contractor’s registration
 
   
110.999   Penalty
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 110.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereinafter be known as the “Madison County Private
Sewage Disposal Code” and may be so cited.
(1993 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Res. 99-12, passed 7-21-
1999)
§ 110.002 PURPOSE.
   The county finds that the control and regulation of private sewage is
desirable to prevent nuisances, protect public health and to assure a minimum
standard for design, construction, materials, operation and maintenance of
private disposal systems.
(1993 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Res. 99-12, passed 7-21-
1999)
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES
§ 110.015 INCORPORATION OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The county has adopted all the necessary codes for construction in the
county as authorized by 225 ILCS 225/.
   (B)   Along with the adoption of these necessary codes for guidelines, the
county has found it necessary to make certain alterations to meet the county’s
specific needs.
   (C)   All documents and information attached to Ord. 98-08, passed June 17,
1998 and referred to in division (B) of this section are filed in the County
Clerk’s office as public records, so that all interested parties will be aware
of the specific amendments to the code as previously adopted.
   (D)   Three copies of this information will be on file in the office of the
County Clerk for visual inspection, as well as available in the offices of the
County Building and Zoning Department, and is hereby adopted and incorporated
in this code as if fully set forth herein.
(1993 Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Res. 99-12, passed 7-21-
1999; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
Editor’s note:
   The county has adopted by reference the Illinois Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act. The information listed in §§
110.030 through
110.041,
110.055 through
110.058,
110.070 through
110.073,
110.085 and
110.086 is adopted in addition to these and other applicable county ordinances.
Where regulations are in conflict with each other, the more strict regulation
will apply.
APPLICATIONS, PERMITS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.030 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend the
individual sewage disposal systems within the county unless a valid permit has
been issued by the Building and Zoning Department stating the name of the
person for which the specific construction, alteration or extension is
proposed.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Building and Zoning
Department. Sufficient data shall be included to allow review and to determine
whether the proposed application for permit meets requirements of the County
Private Sewage Disposal Code.
(1993 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.031 PERMIT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A permit shall only be issued to, and installed by, a licensed private
sewage disposal system contractor of the county or a home owner installing his
or her own residential sewage disposal system except as provided for in
divisions (B) and (C) of this section. Aerobic wastewater treatment system may
only be installed by a licensed sewage disposal contractor.
   (B)   The excavator and company involved in delivery and placement of an
aerobic waste water treatment unit will be considered “installers.” Both
parties must have an up-to-date county private sewage disposal license.
   (C)   A county building permit must be obtained for all installations of
private sewage disposal systems.
(1993 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.032 APPLICATION FORMS FOR PERMITS.
   Permit application forms are available in the Building and Zoning Department
and all information requested on the forms must be completed.
(1993 Code, § 110.22) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.033 PRIVATE SEWAGE PLATS.
   (A)   (1)   The Building and Zoning Committee requires that an approved
private sewage subdivision plat be on file for all subdivisions approved under
the authority of the county subdivision control ordinance.
      (2)   Private sewage system permits will not be issued unless it is
determined that the system is in compliance with the private sewage subdivision
plat.
   (B)   (1)   At a minimum, all requirements of the County Private Sewage Code
must be met as a condition of subdivision plat approval.
      (2)   Additional requirements may be placed on the subdivision by the
Building and Zoning Committee to assure that the tract of land may be developed
to further the objectives of the subdivision control ordinance.
   (C)   Where common discharge lines are proposed on private sewage plats,
easements must be recorded allowing, and assigning responsibility for, the
property upkeep and maintenance of the common effluent lines.
(1993 Code, § 110.23) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.034 TIME LIMIT FOR ACTION ON APPLICATIONS.
   The Building and Zoning Department of the county shall act upon all
applications within 15 days of receipt thereof.
(1993 Code, § 110.24) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.035 REFUSAL TO GRANT PERMIT.
   The Building and Zoning Department may refuse to grant a permit for the
construction of a private sewage disposal system where the requirements of the
Private Sewage Disposal Code are not met.
(1993 Code, § 110.25) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.036 FEE CHARGED.
   (A)   There shall be a fee charged for the initial construction permit,
alteration or extension of an individual sewage system. The fee shall be
collected by the Building and Zoning Department at the time an application for
permit is submitted. The fee is nonrefundable.
   (B)   The fee schedule is as follows:
 
Building permit fee $45
Common line fee     $50
Lab analysis fee    $30
Reinspection fee    $25
 
(1993 Code, § 110.26) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.037 PERMIT VALID FOR SIX MONTHS.
   The permit to construct is valid for a period of six months from date of
issuance. If construction has not started within this period, the permit is
void.
(1993 Code, § 110.27) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998)
§ 110.038 VARIANCES.
   If circumstances exist which make compliance with the requirements
impossible, anyone may request the Department to review a proposal for
modification of the requirements. The requests shall be made in writing and be
accompanied by a plan drawn to scale, and shall include pertinent data to
support the request.
(1993 Code, § 110.28) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998)
§ 110.039 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Private sewage disposal systems constructed prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall comply with any provision of this chapter deemed
necessary by the Building and Zoning Department.
   (B)   The Department is authorized and directed to make inspections as are
necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with the chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a notification by the applicant, a designated member
of the Department of Building and Zoning of the county shall, within two days,
inspect the installed or partially installed private sanitation system of the
person, firm, corporation or organization.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of property to give the
Department free access to the property at reasonable times for the purpose of
making the inspections as are necessary to determine compliance with the
requirements in this chapter.
   (E)   An individual sewage disposal system which has been installed by a
home owner for his or her personal residence shall not be covered or placed in
operation until the installation shall be inspected and written approval of the
system shall have been issued by the Department.
   (F)   The Department may make inspections during the course of construction
of any individual sewage disposal system to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
   (G)   If any home owner who installs his or her own private sewage disposal
system shall backfill any portion of the system and/or cover same with earth,
cinders, gravel, shale or any other material which will prevent same from being
readily viewed to determine if the system meets all requirements of this
chapter, and before receipt of written approval by the Department, the
Department may give 15 days’ notice in writing to the home owner so violating
the provision of the chapter, to uncover the backfill or covered portions of
the system.
   (H)   (1)   If, at the end of the 15 days, the home owner shall not have
uncovered the individual sewage disposal system, the permit is automatically
invalidated and penalty action may be taken.
      (2)   The Department may elect to have the system uncovered at the
expense of the home owner. Failure of the home owner to pay the costs within 30
days shall result in execution of a lien against the property.
(1993 Code, § 110.29) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.040 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Building and Zoning Department determines that a
violation of any provision of this chapter has occurred, the Building and
Zoning Department shall give notice to the person responsible for the
violation.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice;
      (3)   Allow reasonable time as determined by the Building and Zoning
Department for performance of any act it required;
      (4)   Be served upon the person responsible for the violation; provided
that the notice shall have been properly served upon the person responsible for
the violations when a copy thereof has been sent to his or her last known
address as furnished to the Department or when he or she has been served with
the notice by any other method authorized by laws of this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to effect
compliance with this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 110.30) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.041 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the authority rendered as the
result of a hearing held in accordance with this section may file in the office
of the Building and Zoning Department a written request for a hearing at a time
and place designed by the Department within 30 days of the date on which the
written request was filed.
   (B)   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and place
of the hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the hearing
is to be held.
   (C)   If, as a result of facts elicited as a result of the hearing, the
Building and Zoning Committee of the County Board finds that strict compliance
with the decision of the building and zoning authority would cause undue
hardship on the petition, and that the public health would be adequately
protected and substantial justice done by granting a variance from the decision
of the Administrator or Acting Administrator, the Department may grant a
variance, and as a condition for such variance may, where it deems necessary,
make requirements which are additional to those prescribed by this chapter, all
for the purpose of properly protecting the public health.
   (D)   The Building and Zoning Committee of the Board shall render a decision
within ten days after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to
writing. A copy thereof shall be served on the petitioner personally or by
delivery to the petitioner by certified mail.
(1993 Code, § 110.31) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.055 APPROVED SYSTEMS.
   Aeration treatment systems, approved by the state, must also be approved by
the County Building and Zoning Department. Before any new system may be placed
on a list of approved county aeration systems, it must first obtain an
experimental permit in which a limited number of systems are allowed to be
installed. The systems are monitored by the County Building and Zoning
Department for a number of months for performance. Upon satisfactory compliance
with these regulations, the system will be placed on the approved list.
(1993 Code, § 110.40) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.056 UNAPPROVED SYSTEMS.
   The following systems shall not be approved for installation as private
sewage disposal systems, and allowing the following to exist shall constitute a
violation of this code:
   (A)   Septic tanks discharging to farm tiles, storm sewers, village tiles,
roadside ditches, drainage ditches, railroad ditches, ground surface, rivers,
lakes, streams or intermittent waterways; and
   (B)   Cesspools.
(1993 Code, § 110.41) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.057 CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human residence,
occupancy, employment or recreation, situated within the county and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the
future be located, a public sanitary sewer, is required, at his or her expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet (60.96 meters).
(1993 Code, § 110.42) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.058 DISPOSAL FIELD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot size. A sufficient area of suitable ground shall be provided for a
second subsurface seepage field of a size equal to the minimum subsurface
seepage field required by this chapter.
   (B)   Setbacks. Private sewage disposal system must be installed to meet the
setbacks listed in Attachment D, as attached to Ord. 98-08, passed June 17,
1998, and is incorporated by reference herein.
(1993 Code, § 110.43) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998) Penalty, see §
110.999
AERATION SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.070 SPECIFICATIONS FOR AERATED TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   Prior to the installation of an aerated treatment system, plans and
specifications shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning Department for
approval. Specifications for aerated treatment systems shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Chlorinator. Aerobic systems must contain sufficient chlorine at all
times for proper disinfection;
   (B)   The aeration unit should have a trash collecting section;
   (C)   The aeration unit must be guaranteed to treat at least 500 gallons of
domestic sewage per day;
   (D)   A clearly labeled warning light or buzzer must be provided that warns
the owner of the failure of any electrical or mechanical component of the
system;
   (E)   A service contract should be available to which the home owner may
subscribe if he or she so desires. A replacement policy governing all
mechanical and electrical component parts should be furnished by the
manufacturer to each owner;
   (F)   All mechanical and electrical component parts should be granted
against defects in materials and workmanship;
   (G)   The aeration unit shall not have an effluent discharge directly to the
surface of the ground except as discussed in division (H) of this section. Each
aeration unit shall be followed by one of the following secondary treatment
systems:
      (1)   Subsurface seepage field;
      (2)   Sand filtration with effluent chlorination; or
      (3)   Waste stabilization pond with effluent chlorination.
   (H)   Approval for aerated treatment systems with a surface discharge may be
granted provided that:
      (1)   The Building and Zoning Department is provided sufficient evidence
that the system is capable of producing an effluent on a continuous basis that
meets the water quality criteria. See effluent standards; and
      (2)   If the operation of a system results in an unsatisfactory effluent,
then additional treatment shall be installed as required by the Building and
Zoning Department.
   (I)   Type of pipe. Aerobic systems shall be constructed with Schedule 40
type pipe throughout system including discharge pipe;
   (J)   Discharge pipe shall be capped with a perforated cover;
   (K)   Discharge pipe shall be maintained properly and be readily accessible
to allow for sanitary sampling purposes of effluent discharge;
   (L)   Effluent draining from discharge pipe shall immediately empty into a
“rock filter bed” constructed as follows (see Attachment C, which is attached
hereto and made a part by reference hereof):
      (1)   Rock size: three-fourths inch (pea gravel is prohibited); and
      (2)   Trench size:
         (a)   Minimum length, six feet;
         (b)   Minimum width, 18 inches; and
         (c)   Minimum depth, 12 inches.
   (M)   End of discharge pipe must be located a minimum of 25 feet (more if
possible) inside property boundary line with proper “rock filter bed” as
described above. All discharge points from aeration or sand filtration systems
must be a minimum of 235 feet from any other aeration or sand filtration
discharge point;
   (N)   Minimum distances allowable from aerobic system discharges are as
follows:
 
                 Water Supply  Lake, Stream,                        Field Drain
            Well (Pressure)    Body of Water Dwelling Property Line Tile
                               (feet)
Aerobic     50   10            50            5        25            10
Sand filter 100  25            75            10       25            10
 
   (O)   Common collector line must be located on recorded easements and
constructed according to specifications located in Attachment B, which is
attached hereto and made a part by reference hereof.
(1993 Code, § 110.50) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.071 AERATION TREATMENT EFFLUENT DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Approval for aerated treatment systems with a surface discharge may be
granted provided that:
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Department is provided sufficient evidence
that the system is capable of producing an effluent on a continuous basis that
meets the water quality criteria (see effluent standards);
   (B)   If the operation of a system results in an unsatisfactory effluent,
then additional treatment shall be installed as required by the Building and
Zoning Department;
   (C)   Effluent from an aerobic type unit is required to drain into the
following. One hundred and fifty square feet minimum absorption trench. (see
Attachment A, attached to Ord. 98-08, which is attached hereto and made a part
by reference hereof). If property size prohibits one to 150 square feet trench,
shorter trenches totaling 150 square feet are permitted.
   (D)   Absorption trenches are to be constructed as follows:
      (1)   Width: three feet; and
      (2)   Depth: two feet minimum; three feet maximum.
   (E)   Trenches are required to terminate as follows:
 
Well Property Line Lake, Stream, Body Field Drain Tile Water Supply  Dwelling
                   of Water                            (Pressure)
50   10            50                 10               10            5
 
   (F)   Approved graveless and/or chamber systems may be substituted for
gravel systems.
(1993 Code, § 110.51) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.072 WATER QUALITY OF EFFLUENT.
   All surface discharges from private sewage disposal systems shall comply
with United States Environmental Protection Agency Secondary Treatment
Guidelines for BOD and suspended solids.
   (A)   BOD.
      (1)   Arithmetic mean of all effluent samples collected in a period of 30
consecutive days 30 milligrams per liter and 85% removal; and
      (2)   Arithmetic mean of all effluent samples collected in a period of
seven consecutive days 45 milligrams per liter.
   (B)   Suspended solids.
      (1)   Arithmetic mean of all effluent samples collected in a period of 30
consecutive days 30 milligrams per liter and 85% removal; and
      (2)   Arithmetic mean of all effluent samples collected in a period of
seven consecutive days 45 milligrams per liter.
   (C)   Settleable solids. No effluent shall contain settleable solids.
   (D)   Color, odor and turbidity. Color, odor and turbidity must be reduced
to below discernable levels.
   (E)   Effluent; prohibitions. No effluent shall contain floating debris,
visible oil, grease, scum or sludge solids.
   (F)   Fecal coliform.
      (1)   A fecal coliform bacteria concentration not exceeding 400 organisms
per 100 milliliters except where chlorination is not required.
      (2)   Samples shall be analyzed in accordance with the Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
(1993 Code, § 110.52) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.073 CHLORINATION OF EFFLUENT.
   (A)   All effluent discharged to the ground surface or to a watercourse must
be disinfected with chlorine or other disinfectant as approved by the
Department. A disinfectant residual between 0.2 and 1.5 milligrams per liter
shall remain following 30 minute contact period.
   (B)   The Building and Zoning Department shall have authority to make
periodic sampling and testing of all chlorination units installed in the county
at a reasonable and proper time.
   (C)   Disinfectant equipment shall be continuous feeding and should be
capable of controlling the feed rate.
   (D)   Sample port: a four-inch Schedule 40 PVC sample port shall be
installed on all aeration systems, located above the absorption trench and
after chlorination.
(1993 Code, § 110.53) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
110.999
CONTRACTOR’S REGISTRATION
§ 110.085 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An annual contractor’s registration license fee shall be required of
all private sewage disposal system installation contractors and all private
sewage disposal systems pumping contractors operating within the limits of this
county.
   (B)   The Building and Zoning Department shall issue a private sewage
disposal system installation contractor registration certificate or a private
sewage disposal system pumping contractor registration certificate to persons
applying for such certificate who pass the written examination given by the
state for the certificate desired. An annual registration license fee shall be
required for each certificate issued for installation contractors in the
county.
   (C)   A license issued under this section shall expire on December 31 of the
year issued, except that an original license issued after October 1 and before
December 31 shall expire on December 31 of the following year.
   (D)   Each person who holds a currently valid plumbing license issued under
the state plumbing license law as now or hereafter amended shall not be
required to pay the annual license fee required by this section, but such
licensed person shall comply with all other provisions of this chapter,
including the requirement for examination for licensure.
   (E)   The Building and Zoning Department shall reinstate a license which
expires while a licensee is in the active military service of the United States
upon application to the Building and Zoning Department by the former licensee
within two years after termination of such military service, payment of the
annual license fee, and submission of evidence of such military service. Such
license shall be reinstated without examination and without payment of the
reinstatement fee.
   (F)   A private sewage disposal system pumping contractor or a disposal
system installation contractor whose license has expired for a period of less
than three years may apply to Building and Zoning Department for reinstatement
of the license. The Building and Zoning Department shall issue the renewed
license provided the applicant pays all lapsed license fees plus a
reinstatement fee determined by the Building and Zoning Department.
   (G)   A license which has expired for more than three years may be restored
only by reapplying to take and successfully passing the written examination.
All applicants shall be tested and required to attain a passing grade
prescribed by the state on examination which evaluates the applicant’s general
knowledge of design, installation, operation, maintenance and serving on-site
wastewater disposal systems.
   (H)   Applications for examination shall be in the form prescribed by the
state. The state shall conduct the written examination at least two times a
year and may require a practical demonstration by each applicant. The written
examination shall be prepared by the Building and Zoning Department.
(1993 Code, § 110.60) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.086 REVOCATION OF CONTRACTOR’S REGISTRATION.
   For serious or repeated violation of any of the requirements of this
chapter, or for interference with building and zoning authority in the
performance of his or her duties, the private sewage disposal contractor’s
registration certificate may be revoked after an opportunity for a hearing has
been provided by the environmental authority. Prior to the action, the Building
and Zoning Department shall notify the contractor in writing, stating the
reasons for which the registration certificate is subject to revocation and
advising that the certificate shall be revoked at the end of five days
following service of such notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed with
the environmental authority, by the holder, within the five-day period. A
registration certificate may be suspended for a cause pending its revocation or
a hearing relative thereto.
(1993 Code, § 110.61) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined an amount not to exceed $1,000 for each violation. Each
day on which a violation shall continue, after notification thereof, shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 98-08, passed 6-17-1998; Res. 99-12, passed 7-21-
1999)
CHAPTER 111: SANITARY LANDFILL CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Purpose and authority
   
111.03   Definitions
Licensing and Registration Regulations
   
111.15   License required; application
   
111.16   Vehicular licensing
   
111.17   Registration of sites or facilities
New Pollution Control Facility
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   Application
   
111.32   County review
   
111.33   Other parties
   
111.34   Public hearing
   
111.35   Public comment
   
111.36   Record
   
111.37   Site approval decision
   
111.38   Administration of fees and costs
   
111.39   Waiver of rules
Administration and Enforcement
   
111.50   Building and Zoning Committee
   
111.51   Rules and procedures
   
111.52   Inspection by Committee
   
111.53   Solid waste management fee; fund established
   
111.54   Notices and communications
   
111.55   Notification of change
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Sanitary Landfill Code of
Madison County.”
(1993 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The county adopts and avails the county of the provisions of “An act
authorizing the County to regulate garbage disposal areas and vehicles used in
the hauling of garbage,” approved September 26, 1980, and all supplement
amendments thereto, “enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly of the State of Illinois” (55 ILCS 5/5-8001
et seq.).
   (B)   The county adopts and avails the county of the provisions of “An act
to prohibit open garbage dumps,” approved June 29, 1970, and all supplemental
amendments thereto, “enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,
represented in the General Assembly of the State of Illinois” (415 ILCS 5/21).
Except as hereinafter stated, and unless a different meaning of a word or term
is clear from its context, the definitions of words or terms as are used in
this code shall be the same as those used in the Environmental Protection Act.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of public health, safety and general welfare.
   (D)   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, safety or health ordinance
or code in force in the incorporated or unincorporated areas of the county
existing on the effective date of this chapter, the provision which established
the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the people of the county shall prevail.
(1993 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Permits, see 415 ILCS 5/39
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL WEATHER ROAD. A road built of suitable material which allows for
unrestricted and unaided vehicular movement in all forms of wet or dry weather.
   BEDROCK. The solid rock exposed at the surface of the earth or overlaid by
unconsolidated material.
   CELL. Compacted refuse completely enclosed by cover material.
   COMBUSTIBLE WASTE. All waste substances capable of incineration or burning,
but excluding explosive or highly inflammable material.
   COMMERCIAL HAULER. Any person collecting garbage for hire from more than two
residences or from any commercial or industrial establishment or public
building.
   COMPACTION. The reduction of volume of material under load.
   CONTAINERS. Five-gallon pails, 40- or 45- gallon fiberboard, steel and
plastic drums, and 50- or 55-gallon steel drums.
   COVER MATERIAL. Soil or other material that is used to cover compacted solid
waste in a sanitary landfill and that is free of objects that would hinder
compaction and free of content that would be conducive to vector harborage,
feeding or breeding.
   DEVELOPMENT. Construction or installation of a facility.
   DISPOSAL AREA. Any area within the county to which refuse is to be hauled
for disposal. The term does not include the area on any person’s land used for
the disposal of refuse from such person’s household, provided that the items of
waste are covered as required.
   FACILITY. Any device, mechanism, equipment or area used for storage,
transfer, processing, incineration or deposit of solid waste.
   GARBAGE DISPOSAL AREA. Any site, including a sanitary landfill or land
reclamation area used for the disposal of solid or semi-solid refuse from more
than one premises, or from a commercial or industrial operation, not suitable
for discharge into water carriage waste disposal systems. It means any area
within a county but outside any city, village or incorporated town in such
county to which garbage is hauled for disposal. The term does not include the
area on any person’s land used for disposal of garbage from such person’s own
household.
   GROUNDWATER. Water occurring in the zone of saturation in any aquifer or
soil.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Solid waste with inherent properties which make such waste
difficult or dangerous to manage by normal means including, but not limited to,
chemicals, explosives, pathological wastes, radioactive materials and wastes
likely to cause fire.
   LAND RECLAMATION AREA. All land or parcels of land on which refuse or
nonputrescible refuse or solid waste is accepted for deposit or permitted to be
deposited regardless of whether a charge is made therefor.
   LEACHATE. Liquid containing materials removed from solid waste.
   LIFT. An accumulation of refuse which is compacted into a cell and over
which a compacted cover is placed.
   LIQUID. A waste, or part of a waste, which yields any fluid when subjected
to the paint filter test described in § 729.320 of the Environmental Protection
Act (source: added at 9 Ill. Reg. 718, effective January 3, 1985).
   MODIFICATION. Any physical change, or change in the method of operation, of
a solid waste management facility.
   NON-COMBUSTIBLE WASTE. All other waste substance not capable of incineration
or burning such as earth fill, glass, metal, earthenware and the like.
   REFUSE. All waste substances, including animal and vegetable, as well as
combustible and noncombustible waste and all putrescible matter.
   OPERATOR. A person who owns, leases or manages a solid waste management
facility.
   PERMEABILITY. The capability of a material to pass a fluid.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered to practice engineering in the
state.
   SALVAGING. The return of solid waste materials to beneficial use.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to the public health or safety by confining refuse to the
smallest practical volume by employing power equipment, and covering with a
layer of compacted earth or suitable cover material at the conclusion of each
day’s operation, or at such intervals on a more frequent basis as may be
necessary.
   SCAVENGING. The removal of materials from a solid waste management facility
in a manner not in conformity with the regulations governing salvaging.
   SITE. Any location, place or tract of land and facilities, used for solid
waste management.
   SLUDGE. Any material containing less than 40% solids with no free-flowing
liquids present.
   SOLID WASTE. Refuse having 40% or more solid contents.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. Disposition of solid waste by means acceptable under
regulations adopted by the County Board.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The processes of storage, processing or disposal of
solid wastes, not including hauling or transport.
   SURFACE WATER. All water the surface of which is exposed to the atmosphere.
   VECTOR. Any living agent, other than human, capable of transmitting,
directly or indirectly, an infectious disease.
   WATER TABLE. That surface in unconfined water at which the pressure is
atmospheric and is defined by the levels at which water stands in wells that
penetrate the water just far enough to hold standing water.
   WORKING FACE. Any part of a sanitary landfill where refuse is being
disposed.
(1993 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
LICENSING AND REGISTRATION REGULATIONS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate any landfill and/or sanitary landfill, solid
waste disposal site or land reclamation areas except such sites which are owned
and operated by a municipality within or outside its corporate limits, and by
industries disposing of noncombustible and nonputrescible waste on their own
property, without first obtaining a license and paying $500 annually for each.
   (B)   No such license shall be issued, except on application and approval by
the Building and Zoning Committee.
(1993 Code, § 111.15) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 VEHICULAR LICENSING.
   (A)   Permit. All persons using or operating commercial or municipal refuse
vehicles hauling refuse to any refuse disposal area in the county shall obtain
a permit from the County Clerk. Those municipalities owning or operating
vehicles hauling refuse to municipally owned disposal areas shall be exempt
from the provisions of this section. A copy of the permit shall be carried at
all times in the hauling vehicle and displayed in the upper right-hand corner
of the windshield.
   (B)   Issuance. No permit shall be issued unless the application filed with
the County Clerk contains the following information:
      (1)   Name (owner and/or hauler);
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Location of equipment; and
      (4)   License plate number.
   (C)   Fee. The annual fee per vehicle shall be $60 per year, which shall be
paid prior to the issuance of the permit.
(1993 Code, § 111.16) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 REGISTRATION OF SITES OR FACILITIES.
   All refuse disposal sites or facilities shall be registered with the
Building and Zoning Committee on forms provided by the Committee.
(1993 Code, § 111.17) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
NEW POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT. Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind who files a request for site approval
pursuant to this chapter.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. A site at which hazardous waste is
disposed. HAZARDOUS WASTE is waste as defined in the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act, hereinafter referred to as the Act, as amended (415 ILCS 5/1 et
seq.).
      IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY. Any waste storage site, sanitary
landfill, waste disposal site, waste transfer station or waste incinerator that
accepts waste from or that serves an area that exceeds or extends over the
boundaries of any local general purpose unit of government. For purposes of
this subchapter a local general purpose unit of government shall include the
county. A REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY is also any facility defined as
such in the Act.
      REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL HEARING COMMITTEE. The committee appointed by
the County Board Chairperson whose function is to attend the public hearings on
requests for site approval, make factual findings, and make recommendations
regarding the requests for site approval to the Board.
   (B)   In addition, all other words used in this chapter and defined in the
Act shall have the same definitions and meanings as found in 415 ILCS 5/1 et
seq.
(1993 Code, § 111.30) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
§ 111.31 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A minimum of 17 complete copies of requests for site approval, plus
one additional copy for each municipality contiguous to the proposed site, all
including copies of all site plans, exhibits and maps, shall be filed in the
office of the County Clerk. Upon receipt of any such request for site approval,
the Clerk shall date stamp same and immediately deliver 12 copies of the
request to the County Board Office, one copy to the Administrator of the
Building and Zoning Department, one copy to the Hearing Officer, one copy to
the State’s Attorney, one copy to the Superintendent of Highways and one copy
to each municipality contiguous to the proposed site.
   (B)   A copy of the request for site approval shall be made available for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk and members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain a copy of the request for site approval or any part thereof
upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction. All copying requests shall be
fulfilled by the Clerk within a reasonable time from the time of the request.
   (C)   Requests for site approval shall be of the form as provided by the
County Building and Zoning Department and shall include the following:
      (1)   A written petition on eight and one-half by 11 inch paper which
sets forth:
         (a)   The identification of the applicant and owner, and if the
proposed site is owned in trust, the beneficiaries;
         (b)   The legal description of the proposed site and a street address
or some other reasonable description of where the proposed site is located;
         (c)   A description of the proposed facility, its operation and the
expected longevity thereof;
         (d)   The area to be served by the proposed facility and a statement
of the needs of such area for such a facility;
         (e)   A list of the existing regional pollution control facilities
within the area proposed to be served and, with respect to each such facility,
the following information shall be provided: location, size, owner and/or
operator, type of pollution control facility, remaining capacity, probable life
of the existing facility and types of wastes received;
         (f)   The expected types, amounts and methods of treatment or storage
of all wastes proposed for the site and the origins of these wastes;
         (g)   A description of the geologic and hydrogeologic character of the
site including core samples, the monitoring plans, including any background
analyses for groundwater, surface water and air;
         (h)   Reasons supporting approval of the application including meeting
the criteria set forth in 415 ILCS 5/39.2(a); and
         (i)   A prayer for site approval.
      (2)   The request for a permit made to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, if any such request has been made;
      (3)   A site plan showing details of the proposed facility including, but
not limited to:
         (a)   Cross-sections;
         (b)   All existing wells within 500 feet of the site;
         (c)   All monitoring wells;
         (d)   Fences, buildings and other structures;
         (e)   Roads, entrances and driveways; and
         (f)   Core sample locations on and within 200 feet of the site.
      (4)   A detailed topographic survey of the subject site and the
surrounding area within 500 feet which indicates land use and, if applicable,
the boundary of the 100-year floodplain as determined by the Illinois
Department of Transportation;
      (5)   A statement of the plan of operation for the proposed facility,
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Method of landfilling, incineration, resource recovery or other
process;
         (b)   Hours of operation;
         (c)   Personnel;
         (d)   Litter, vector, dust and odor control;
         (e)   Surface drainage and erosion control;
         (f)   Fire control;
         (g)   Corrective actions for spills and other operational accidents;
         (h)   If applicable, the stages of development or use; and
         (i)   End use plan.
      (6)   A statement or report of traffic information regarding the proposed
site including the anticipated number of vehicles and their size, weight and
direction of movement;
      (7)   All studies, maps, reports, permits or exhibits which the applicant
desires the Board to consider at the public hearing;
      (8)   A description of the insurance policies carried by the applicant to
cover single accidents, such as fires or explosions and non-sudden accidental
occurrences;
      (9)   If the site is a proposed hazardous waste facility, a copy of the
Resource Conservation Recovery Act Contingency Plan, 40 C.F.R. §§ 24, 265 and
279; and
      (10)   A $75,000 application fee to cover notice costs, court reporter
costs, transcription costs, county consultant costs, Hearing Officer costs and
other expenses incurred by the county in conducting the review of the request
for site approval, the subsequent public hearing, and the site approval
decision; provided, however, that any portion of the application fee that
remains unexpended at the conclusion of the hearing process shall be returned
to the applicant. Should there be any additional costs incurred by the county
over the amount paid by the applicant in the application fee, the applicant
shall bear any and all additional costs.
   (D)   No application for site approval shall be deemed to have been filed or
accepted for filing unless all of the requirements of this chapter applicable
thereto shall have been met and the Clerk shall not give a receipt or other
indication of filing until such time as it is determined that the application
complies with the requirements of this chapter. Within a reasonable period of
time after delivery of an application, the Clerk shall advise the applicant
that:
      (1)   Either the application is complete and that it has been accepted
for filing, designating the date of filing; or
      (2)   The application is not complete, specifying wherein it is
deficient.
   (E)   In order to give members of the public an opportunity to make informed
written comment pursuant to (415 ILCS 5/39.2(c)) and to give members of the
public and departments of the county an opportunity to prepare adequately and
fairly for the public hearing hereinafter described, the applicant must fully
comply with all application requirements as set forth in division (C) above.
Failure to comply with the application requirements shall render such required
information inadmissible at the public hearing.
   (F)   At any time prior to completion by the applicant of the presentation
of the applicant’s factual evidence and an opportunity for cross-questioning by
the Board and any participants, the applicant may file not more than one
amended application upon payment of additional fees as required by the Board.
However, the time limitation for final action set forth in §
111.37(C) shall be extended for an additional period of 90 days.
   (G)   An applicant may not file a request for local siting approval which is
substantially the same as a request which was disapproved pursuant to a finding
against the applicant under any of criteria in division (C)(1) through (C)(9)
of this section within the preceding two years.
   (H)   No later than 14 days before the date on which the County Board
receives a request for site approval, the applicant shall cause written notice
of such request to be served either in person or by registered mail, return
receipt requested, on the owners of all property within the subject area not
solely owned by the applicant, and on the owners of all property within 250
feet in each direction of the lot line of the subject property, said owners
being such persons or entities which appear from the authentic tax records of
the county in which such facility is to be located; provided, that the number
of all feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways
shall be excluded in computing the 250 feet requirement; provided further, that
in no event shall this requirement exceed 400 feet, including public streets,
alleys and other public ways. Such written notice shall also be served upon
members of the General Assembly from the legislative district in which the
proposed facility is located and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the county in which the site is located. Such notice
shall state the name and address of the applicant, the location of the proposed
site, the nature and size of the development, the nature of the activity
proposed, the probable life of the proposed activity, the date when the request
for site approval will be submitted, and a description of the right of persons
to comment on such request as hereafter provided.
   (I)   If, prior to making a final local siting decision, the County Board
has negotiated and entered into a host agreement with the local siting
applicant, the terms and conditions of the host agreement, whether written or
oral, shall be disclosed and made a part of the hearing record for that local
siting proceeding. In the case of an oral agreement, the disclosure shall be
made in the form of a written summary jointly prepared and submitted by the
County Board or governing body of the municipality and the siting applicant and
shall describe the terms and conditions of the oral agreement.
(1993 Code, § 111.31) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.32 COUNTY REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a copy of a request for site approval, the
Administrator of the Building and Zoning Department shall notify the following
county departments of such receipt:
      (1)   The Highway Department;
      (2)   The County Administrator’s office; and
      (3)   The State’s Attorney’s office.
   (B)   The Building and Zoning Department shall be the department responsible
for coordinating review of the request for site approval by the aforementioned
departments and is authorized to call interdepartmental meetings and set
deadlines for the submittal of reports and recommendations.
   (C)   The aforementioned departments may attend the public hearings and may
ask such questions as needed to assist in reaching their recommendations.
   (D)   The aforementioned departments are authorized to prepare and submit
reports and recommendations in response to the request for site approval.
Preliminary reports prepared by county departments and retained consultants
summarizing and analyzing the request for site approval, reports, studies,
exhibits and any written comments filed with the County Clerk, concerning the
appropriateness of the proposed site, shall be filed with the Clerk no later
than ten days in advance of the date set for hearing. In the event that the
tenth day prior to the date set for public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday,
or holiday, the next working day shall be considered the day that reports shall
be filed. Copies of departmental reports shall be available for public
inspection in the office of the Clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed
to obtain copies of the reports upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction.
   (E)   The county departments and consultants retained by the county are
authorized to present testimony at the public hearing as hereinafter described.
(1993 Code, § 111.32) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.33 OTHER PARTIES.
   All reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence or copies thereof, other
than testimony, which any other person desires to submit for the record at the
public hearing must be filed with the County Clerk at least ten days before the
public hearing and shall be available for public inspection in the office of
the Clerk. In the event that the tenth day prior to the date of the public
hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next working day shall be
considered the day that reports, studies and exhibits must be filed. The Clerk
shall date stamp any such reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence upon
receipt. In the case of documentary evidence, members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain copies of the documents upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction.
(1993 Code, § 111.33) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
§ 111.34 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   No sooner than 90 days but no longer than 120 days from the date of
filing of the request for site approval with the County Clerk, a public hearing
shall be held by the Regional Pollution Control Hearing Committee.
   (B)   The Regional Pollution Control Hearing Committee shall consist of
members of the County Environmental and Building and Zoning Committees.
   (C)   Four members shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of holding such
a public hearing.
   (D)   Within ten working days of the date a request for site approval is
filed, the Chairperson of the County Board shall determine the date, time and
location upon which such public hearing shall be held, but in any event the
initial public hearing must be scheduled no sooner than 90 days but no later
than 120 days from the date the request for site approval was filed with the
County Clerk.
   (E)   The Chairperson of the Board shall notify the Clerk of the date upon
which such hearing shall be held and shall request the Clerk to cause notice of
such hearing to be made as follows:
      (1)   No later than 14 days prior to such hearing, notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county of the
proposed site. Such notice shall consist of the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the person, partnership or corporation
requesting site location approval;
         (b)   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names of the beneficiaries of the trust;
         (c)   The legal description of the site;
         (d)   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the neighborhood;
         (e)   The nature and size of the proposed development;
         (f)   The nature of the activity proposed;
         (g)   The probable life of the proposed activity;
         (h)   The time and date of the public hearing;
         (i)   The location of the public hearing; and
         (j)   A statement that all copies of evidence other than testimony to
be submitted at the public hearing must be filed with the County Clerk at least
ten days before the public hearing.
      (2)   Certified mail to all members of the General Assembly from the
district in which the proposed site is located;
      (3)   Certified mail to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency; and
      (4)   Certified mail to the governing authority of every municipality
contiguous to the proposed site.
   (F)   The County State’s Attorney shall appoint the Hearing Officer for the
public hearing on the request for site approval. The Hearing Officer shall
preside over the public hearing and shall make any decisions concerning the
admission of evidence and the manner in which the hearing is conducted subject
to this chapter. The Hearing Officer shall make all decisions and rulings in
accordance with fundamental fairness. The Hearing Officer may exclude
irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony or other
evidence. No ruling of the Hearing Officer shall be appealable to the Board.
   (G)   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of
going forward with evidence of the suitability of the site location for the
proposed use.
   (H)   Any person appearing at such public hearing shall have the right to
give testimony and comment on the suitability of the site location for the
proposed use. Any person shall have the right to be represented by an attorney
at the public hearing. Such attorneys shall have the right of reasonable cross-
examination. Opportunity for any persons appearing at such public hearing to
cross-examine any witness shall be limited by the Hearing Officer.
   (I)   Conduct of the public hearing shall be substantially as follows:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Introduction of the Hearing Committee and Hearing Officer;
      (3)   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the request for
site approval;
      (4)   Recognition of fees, notices, and date of filing of the request for
site approval;
      (5)   Recognition of the county and other parties wishing to testify and
any other reports, exhibits, maps or documents of record as filed pursuant to
this chapter. All parties, including members of the public, intending to
testify or cross-examine must sign in or submit written notification of that
intent to the Regional Pollution Control Hearing Committee on or before the
first day of the public hearing. Should the public hearing extend beyond one
day, additional parties or members of the public not of record as of the first
day of the public hearing will not be allowed to present testimony or cross-
examine;
      (6)   The applicant, the county and other parties may make an opening
statement;
      (7)   The committees shall then hear testimony from the applicant and any
witnesses the applicant may wish to call. Upon the close of the applicant’s
testimony, other parties may offer expert witnesses and evidence they may wish
to present. These other parties may or may not be represented by counsel. Upon
the close of the applicant’s and other parties’ testimony and evidence, the
county may present any witnesses and evidence it wishes to present. Members of
the public, of record, as set forth in division (I)(5) above, may then present
oral comment to the Hearing Committee. The Hearing Officer shall decide the
order of presentation of testimony subject to this chapter;
      (8)   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the
use of exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable examination as
follows: direct, cross-examination, redirect, recross, and the like. After all
parties have presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal, surrebuttal, and the
like, may be allowed at the discretion of the Hearing Officer;
      (9)   Should any issues, facts, data or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing, which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a party from the request for site approval as filed with the Clerk, such
situation may constitute grounds for a recess in the public hearing for a
period not to exceed five working days;
      (10)   Summary statements by the applicant, other parties and the county,
subject to limitations as imposed by the Hearing Officer;
      (11)   Rebuttal statement, if any, by the applicant, subject to
limitations as imposed by the Hearing Officer; and
      (12)   Hearing closed.
   (J)   Members or representatives of the governing authority of a
municipality contiguous to the proposed site, members or representatives of the
County Board of a county in which the proposed site is to be located may appear
at and participate in public hearings held pursuant to this section. The public
hearing shall develop a record sufficient to form the basis of appeal of the
decision in accordance with § 40.1 of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Act. The fact that a member of the county board has publicly expressed an
opinion on an issue related to a site review proceeding shall not preclude the
member from taking part in the proceeding and voting on the issue.
(1993 Code, § 111.34) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.35 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall receive written comment from any person
concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site. Upon receipt of any such
written comment the Clerk shall date stamp same and shall file written comment
and the postmarked envelope in which comment is received.
   (B)   Copies of such written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the offices of the Clerk, and members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment upon payment of actual cost of
reproduction.
   (C)   Any written comment received by the Clerk or postmarked no later than
30 days after the date of the last public hearing shall be made a part of the
record at the public hearing as hereinafter described and the County Board
shall consider any such timely written comments in making its final
determination concerning the request. In the event that the thirtieth day falls
on a Sunday or a federal holiday, the next day on which mail is delivered shall
be considered the thirtieth day for purposes of this division (C).
(1993 Code, § 111.35) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1987)
§ 111.36 RECORD.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall be responsible for keeping the record of the
hearing.
   (B)   The record shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The request for site location approval as described in §
111.31(C);
      (2)   Proof of notice as described in §
111.34(E);
      (3)   Proof of notice given by applicant pursuant to § 39.2(b) of the Act
(415 ILCS 5/39.2(b));
      (4)   Written comments filed by the public and received by the Clerk or
postmarked within 30 days of receipt of the filing of a request for site
location approval;
      (5)   All reports, studies, exhibits or documents received into evidence
at the public hearing;
      (6)   The transcript of the public hearing;
      (7)   Findings of fact and recommendations of the Regional Pollution
Control Hearing Committee; and
      (8)   The resolution containing the final declaration of the County
Board.
   (C)   The Clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the record
of the public hearing.
(1993 Code, § 111.36) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
§ 111.37 SITE APPROVAL DECISION.
   (A)   After the public hearing and any continuation thereof, the Regional
Pollution Control Hearing Committee shall hold a public review meeting for
purposes of establishing findings of fact and a recommendation concerning the
site approval request. Any findings of fact and recommendation shall be
supported by the record and shall be presented to the Building and Zoning
Department which shall in turn submit same to the full County Board at least
within 180 days from the County Clerk’s receipt of the site approval request.
   (B)   An applicant for local siting approval shall submit sufficient details
describing the proposed facility to demonstrate compliance, and local siting
approval shall be granted only if the proposed facility meets the criteria set
forth in 415 ILCS 5/39.2 as are now in effect and as may be amended from time
to time which criteria are hereby adopted by this county in approving or
denying the local siting application. The County Board may also consider as
evidence the previous operating experience and past record of convictions or
admissions of violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary or parent
corporation) in the field of solid waste management when considering criteria
(ii) and (v) under 415 ILCS 5/39.2(a). If the facility is subject to the
location restrictions in 415 ILCS 5/22.14 of this Act, compliance with that
Section shall be determined as of the date the application for siting approval
is filed.
   (C)   The Board shall consider the record from the public hearing and the
findings of fact and recommendations of the Regional Pollution Control Hearing
Committee and shall make a decision concerning a site approval request at least
within 180 days from the Clerk’s receipt of the site approval request. The
County Board may conditionally approve any request for site approval provided
such conditions are not inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the
Illinois Pollution Control Board. Any determination by the County Board shall
be supported by the record. Decisions of the County Board must be in writing,
specifying the reasons for the decision, such reasons to be in conformance with
division (B) above. Such decision shall be available for public inspection at
the County Board Office and may be copied upon payment of the actual cost of
reproduction. If there is no final action by the county board within 180 days
after the date on which it received the request for site approval, the
applicant may deem the request approved.
   (D)   No determination by the County Board of a site approval request may be
reconsidered.
   (E)   Approval granted under this section shall expire at the end of two
calendar years from the date upon which it was granted, unless the approval
granted under this section is for a sanitary landfill operation, in which case
the approval shall expire at the end of three calendar years from the date upon
which it was granted, and unless within that period the applicant has made
application to the agency for a permit to develop the site. In the event that
the local siting decision has been appealed, such expiration period shall be
deemed to begin on the date upon which the appeal process is concluded.
   (F)   Siting approval obtained pursuant to this section is transferable and
may be transferred to a subsequent owner or operator. In the event that siting
approval has been transferred to a subsequent owner or operator, that
subsequent owner or operator assumes and takes subject to any and all
conditions imposed upon the prior owner or operator by the county board of the
county pursuant to this section. However, any such conditions imposed pursuant
to this section may be modified by agreement between the subsequent owner or
operator and the appropriate county board. Further, in the event that siting
approval obtained pursuant to this section has been transferred to a subsequent
owner or operator, that subsequent owner or operator assumes all rights and
obligations and takes the facility subject to any and all terms and conditions
of any existing host agreement between the prior owner or operator and the
appropriate county board.
(1993 Code, § 111.37) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.38 ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   All expense incurred by the county in conducting the review of the
request for site approval, the subsequent hearing and the site approval
decision shall be paid from the application fee as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon termination of any proceedings under the hearing process, a final
accounting and summary of all authorized expenditures and reimbursements shall
be presented to the appropriate County Board committees.
   (C)   Any portion of an application fee not required for reimbursement to
the County for costs or expenses incurred by the County under the hearing
process shall be returned to the applicant. Should there be costs and/or
expenses in excess of the amount paid by the applicant in the application fee,
the applicant shall bear any and all additional costs.
   (D)   In order to properly administer the application fee received with
respect to the hearing process and procedure set forth herein, the County
Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to receive and hold such
application fees for administration subject to the review and approval of the
Building and Zoning Committees.
   (E)   In order to expedite payment of all bills incurred as a result of
administering the hearing process, all bills and questions concerning billing
should be directed to the Building and Zoning Department.
(1993 Code, § 111.38) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.39 WAIVER OF RULES.
   In order to ensure fundamental fairness, compliance with the Act, and to
protect the public interest, the Building and Zoning Committee, by majority
vote of members present and voting, may waive any of the above rules.
(1993 Code, § 111.39) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.50 BUILDING AND ZONING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The enforcement of this code is hereby vested in the Building and
Zoning Committee of the County Board, hereinafter known as the Committee.
   (B)   The Committee shall enforce this code and all amendments and
regulations hereinafter adopted by the County Board.
(1993 Code, § 111.50) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.51 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Building and Zoning Committee shall adopt such rules concerning the
filing of appeals and applications for amendments, variances, giving of notice,
and conduct of hearings as shall be necessary to carry out its duties as
defined herein. The Committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep
records of its examinations and other official acts and shall record the vote
of all actions taken. All minutes and records shall be filed for a period not
to exceed two consecutive years in the Office of the County Board and shall be
public record.
(1993 Code, § 111.51) (Ord. passed 5-20-1987; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 111.52 INSPECTION BY COMMITTEE.
   The Building and Zoning Committee or its authorized representatives are
hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to
determine satisfactory compliance with this code and regulations promulgated
hereunder. It shall be the duty of the operator of a sanitary landfill and/or
landfill solid waste disposal site or land reclamation project to give the
Committee free access to the property at reasonable times for the purpose of
making such inspections as are necessary to determine compliance with the
requirements of this code and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
(1993 Code, § 111.52) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.53 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FEE; FUND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   In accordance with 415 ILCS 5/22.15(J)(1), a solid waste management
fee to be assessed and collected by the county is hereby established. Said fee
shall be $0.40 per cubic yard of solid waste deposited in landfills operating
in the county, unless the owner or operator weighs the quantity of the solid
waste received with a device for which certification has been obtained under
the Weights and Measures Act, being 225 ILCS 470/1 et seq., in which case the
fee shall be $0.95 per ton.
   (B)   Collection of said fees shall begin and be in accordance with payment
schedules set by the state. Such fees shall be made payable to the County
Treasurer, by the owners and operators of the landfills located in the county,
and retained by him or her in a fund designated as the Solid Waste Management
Fund. This Fund shall be accounted for by the County Auditor. The County Board
shall make expenditures from this Fund for payment of any cost related to solid
waste management.
   (C)   The County Board may, by resolution, enter into an agreement with the
owner or operator of any landfill in the county, whereby said owner or operator
agrees to undertake a contractual obligation to pay certain sums to the county
in lieu of the solid waste management fees provided for in division (A) of this
section. If the owner or operator of a landfill in the county has entered into
an agreement as authorized by this division (C), the amount of solid waste
management fee provided in divisions (A) above shall be reduced equal to the
newly imposed host fee. If such an agreement expires or is terminated by either
party, the exemption from the payment of the solid waste management fees
provided for in division (A) above shall be revoked and the owner or operator
of the landfill shall resume payment of the solid waste management fees
provided in division (A) above.
(1993 Code, § 111.53) (Ord. 90-4, passed 8-15-1990; Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-21-
2009)
§ 111.54 NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   All notices and communications to the county will be addressed to:
   Building and Zoning Chairperson and
   County Administrator
   157 N. Main St., Ste. 254
   Edwardsville, Illinois 62025
(1993 Code, § 111.54) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.55 NOTIFICATION OF CHANGE.
   The Building and Zoning Committee shall be notified in writing at least 30
days prior to any proposed change in method of operation, deviation from the
approved method of operation, relocation, closure or plan.
(1993 Code, § 111.55) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this code or the
regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this code and shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not to exceed $1,000. Each
day that a violation continues to exist, after notice by the Committee, shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any license granted hereunder may be revoked or suspended by the
Committee at any time for failure to pay the permit fee or the cost of
correcting hazardous conditions, or whenever the Committee finds, upon the
recommendation of the Sanitation Official, that the continuance of the garbage
disposal area would endanger the safety or health of the public.
      (2)   However, no permit shall be revoked or suspended except for failure
to pay the fee, or for the cost of correcting hazardous conditions, except
after public hearing and provided that notice of the hearing and the purpose
thereof shall have been sent to the permit holder at least ten days prior to
the date of the hearing. At the hearing, any person interested in the garbage
disposal area shall have the right to be heard.
(1993 Code, § 111.99) (Ord. 89-3, passed 3-15-1989)
CHAPTER 112: RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Short title
   
112.02   Purpose and authority
   
112.03   Definitions
Separation of Recyclables and Licensing
   
112.15   Separation of recyclables from residential dwellings
   
112.16   Licensing of haulers and disposal of waste
Administration and Enforcement
   
112.30   Violations
   
112.31   Administration procedures
   
112.32   Hearings
   
112.33   Effective date
   
112.34   Severability
   
112.35   Provisions cumulative
   
112.36   Amendments
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Residential Recycling Code of
Madison County.”
(1993 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The county adopts and avails the county of the provisions of the Solid
Waste Planning and Recycling Act, an “Act in relation to solid waste, enacted
by the People of the State of Illinois, represented in the General Assembly of
the State of Illinois,” 415 ILCS 15/1 et seq., and following.
   (B)   The county provides a general guideline in the development of programs
to reduce solid waste and to allow citizens to become proactive in volume
reduction and recycling.
   (C)   The county implements the intent of the County Solid Waste Plan.
(1993 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURBSIDE COLLECTION. A mixed municipal solid waste or recyclable materials
collection system whereby the waste generator sets out waste containers for
collection. Such COLLECTION may include specially established collection
programs, including, but not limited to, “back door” collection programs.
   DWELLING. A building, exclusive of recreational vehicles, hotels or motels
containing as its principle use one or more dwelling units.
   FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling containing two dwelling units each with
completely separate entrances.
   GARBAGE. Any refuse products or materials including, but not limited to, the
following: putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, sale or consumption of food; animal excretion; glass or
metal containers, products or objects discarded as no longer usable; paper,
wood and cardboard waste; uprooted weeds, grass clippings, leaves and the like;
ashes and cinders; discarded furniture or clothing; and dead animals. The term
GARBAGE does not include human excretion in the form of body waste.
   HAULER. Any person, who engages in the business of collecting or hauling
garbage, municipal waste, recyclables, landscape waste, brush or other refuse
on a continuous and regular basis, and makes multiple scheduled collections per
month within the county.
   MUNICIPALITY. All incorporated places including a village or a city.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, general household, institutional and
commercial waste, industrial lunchroom or office waste, landscape waste, and
construction and demolition debris.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from garbage, municipal
waste or refuse for the purpose of recycling, including, but not limited to,
aluminum and tin cans, newspapers, corrugated cardboard, high grade printing
and writing papers, magazines, landscape waste, plastic and glass containers,
motor oil and vehicle fluids.
   RECYCLING, RECLAMATION  or  REUSE. A method, technique or process designed
to remove any contaminant from waste so as to render the waste reusable, or any
process by which materials that would otherwise be disposed of or discarded are
collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic mainstream in
the form of raw materials or products, but does not include the combustion of
waste for energy recovery or volume reduction.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT. Single- and two-family dwellings.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE STREAM. Garbage, refuse or waste generated by a
residential dwelling unit.
   REFUSE. All discarded and unwanted putrescible and non-putrescible household
and kitchen wastes, including, but not limited to, food, food residues, and
materials necessarily used for packaging, storing, preparing and consuming
same, usually defined as GARBAGE ; and all combustible and non-combustible
waste materials resulting from the usual routine of domestic housekeeping,
including, but not limited to, aluminum and steel cans; glass containers;
plastic containers; crockery and other containers; metal; paper of all trees,
including newspapers, books, magazines and catalogs; boxes and cartons; cold
ashes; furniture, furnishings and fixtures; household appliances of all kinds;
textiles and leather; dead animals and animal waste; toys and recreational
equipment; and similar items. For the purposes of this chapter, the terms
GARBAGE, REFUSE, RUBBISH, SOLID WASTE, TRASH, and WASTE shall be synonymous
unless otherwise more specifically defined.
   SCAVENGING. The unauthorized collection or removal of materials, municipal
waste and recyclable materials from a solid waste management facility, or that
has been set out by residents of the county specifically for an authorized
collection, in a manner not in conformity with the regulations governing
salvaging.
   VOLUME BASED USER FEE. Refuse collection fees established on a volume or
weight basis, or base rate volume structure.
(1993 Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES AND LICENSING
§ 112.15 SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLES FROM RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Each occupant of a residential dwelling unit in the county shall
comply with one of the following:
      (1)   Reside within the corporate limits of a municipality which has
entered into a written agreement with the county assuming responsibility for
meeting the 25% state mandated recycling goal, and can demonstrate annually
through reporting it has complied with the recycling requirement;
      (2)   Reside within the unincorporated area of a township which has
entered into a written agreement with the county assuming responsibility for
meeting the 25% state mandated recycling goal and can demonstrate annually
through reporting it has complied with the recycling requirement; and
      (3)   Shall separate recyclable materials from all other refuse, garbage
and municipal waste, and store these recyclables separately in containers
designed for recycling. As an alternative, occupants of residential dwellings
may separate recyclable materials and take them to an established recycling
center. For the purposes of this division (A)(3), RECYCLING shall be defined as
materials consisting of, at a minimum, newsprint, glass and plastic containers,
and aluminum and steel cans.
   (B)   All municipalities/townships are encouraged to adopt volume-based user
fees for the collection and disposal of waste.
(1993 Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.16 LICENSING OF HAULERS AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall knowingly dispose of waste, collected from
residential dwelling units in the county, without recyclables first being
removed. An exception to this is waste collected from residential dwelling
units within a municipality or township that has entered into a written
agreement with the county as provided in §
112.15(A)(1) or (A)(2).
   (B)   Licenses required.
      (1)   Generally. No person or company shall engage in the business of
collecting or hauling garbage, municipal waste, recyclables or other refuse
from sites within the county, or to a disposal site within the county, without
first procuring a license to do so from the county. Such license shall be valid
for one year beginning June 1.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   The county shall prepare and make available to all haulers an
application form for vehicle licenses. The application shall include the
following information:
            1.   Name of business operating vehicles;
            2.   Name of manager of business;
            3.   Name and address of the person designated as the legal
representative of the firm (that is, owner, president);
            4.   Address and telephone number of business;
            5.   Year, make and model of each vehicle;
            6.   Type of each vehicle (that is dump truck, packer, pickup and
the like);
            7.   Vehicle identification number, license plate number, and fleet
number for each vehicle;
            8.   Weight of each vehicle;
            9.   Capacity of each vehicle in cubic yards and tons; and
            10.   Such other information as the county shall deem appropriate
or necessary.
         (b)   The licensee shall notify the county in writing within 30 days
following a change in any information contained in the license application.
         (c)   The completed license application shall be accompanied by a
material separation plan in accordance with division (B)(8) below.
      (3)   License renewal. The county shall provide license renewal forms to
each hauler within 60 days prior to the expiration of the contractor’s current
license. License renewal forms shall be completed and received by the county 30
days prior to the expiration of the contractor’s current license.
      (4)   Conditional license. The county may grant a conditional license
where an application and/or material separation plan is incomplete. The
conditional license shall specify the conditions upon which a permanent license
will be granted and the time requirement within which the conditions must be
met. Failure to comply with the conditions specified shall result in a
revocation of the conditional license and denial of the permanent license.
      (5)   Issuance or denial.
         (a)   The county shall have 30 days from the receipt of the license or
renewal application to issue or deny the license, license renewal or
conditional license. The county will issue a temporary license valid for 30
days upon its failure to act upon the application within 30 days.
         (b)   The past history of the applicant, in terms of compliance with
this chapter, will be considered for purposes of issuance or denial of the
license. The county shall notify the applicant in writing of its decision. If
issued, the license shall be mailed by first class mail to the address provided
in the application. If denied, a written decision shall be served by certified
mail upon the applicant at the address provided in the application.
         (c)   A license denial shall provide written notice stating the basis
for the denial and shall provide notice to the applicant that if an appeal is
desired, a written request for a hearing must be received by the county within
15 calendar days following service. Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the
county shall set a time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall be
conducted pursuant to the procedures in §
112.32 of this chapter.
      (6)   License and vehicle registration fee.
         (a)   The annual fee per vehicle shall be $60, and shall be paid in
the following manner: $60 to the Building and Zoning Department.
         (b)   Payment of all fees must accompany the license application/
renewal and material separation plan.
         (c)   Vehicles owned and operated by municipalities or townships are
exempt from the fee but not from licensing or reporting.
      (7)   Displaying of license. A copy of the permit shall be carried at all
times in the hauling vehicle and the sticker shall be displayed in the upper
right hand corner of the windshield.
      (8)   Material separation plan, information required. As a condition of
licensing and on a form supplied by the county, each applicant or licensee
shall submit a material separation plan with the license application to the
county for approval. The plan shall demonstrate the means, methods and the
like, to permit the separation of recyclables from the solid waste stream. Each
material separation plan shall contain:
         (a)   The means and methods employed to collect, process and market
those separated materials from occupants of residential dwelling units as
required under §
112.15 of this chapter;
         (b)   The identification of specific recycling services to be employed
(that is curbside services);
         (c)   Number of households proposed to be served during the license
year by each collection method used in division (B)(8)(b) above, and the
frequency of collection for each method;
         (d)   Identification of the types of recyclable material to be
collected in accordance with, or beyond that required for separation under §
112.15 of this chapter; and
         (e)   A description of the method and materials which will be used to
explain to each customer the number of materials to be collected, material
preparation instructions and frequency of service.
      (9)   Reporting. On or before July 31 and January 31 of each year, each
licensee shall submit a written report, on forms provided by the county, on its
recycling service operation during the previous six months (January 1 through
June 30; July 1 through December 31). Failure to submit such a report shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and will result in suspension or
revocation of the license. This report shall contain:
         (a)   The total tonnage of municipal waste collected in the county;
         (b   The total tonnage of recyclable material collected in the county,
by commodity, in each sector (that is municipal residential by community,
unincorporated residential, multi-family and commercial); and
         (c)   The total tonnage of landscape waste collected for land
application and/or composting.
   (C)   Collection of recyclables. Collection of recyclables from all dwelling
units shall be by a hauler duly licensed by the county under this chapter,
selected by the occupant of the premises or by a manager of such premises, or
by an association governing such premises, or by a municipality or township, or
by franchise awarded by a municipality or township.
(1993 Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
112.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.30 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Hauler. Any licensed hauler who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine.
   (B)   Scavenger. Any person who scavenges municipal waste and recyclable
materials that have been set out by residents, or businesses, or the county
specifically for an authorized collection under this chapter shall be subject
to a fine.
   (C)   Warnings. The county or any of its duly authorized representatives
will issue a warning notice to any occupant observed not in compliance with any
provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Injunctive relief. The county may institute appropriate actions or
proceedings, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance, or other appropriate action to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
any violation or threatened violation of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.31 ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation of license.
      (1)   Any license required under this chapter may be suspended or revoked
for violation of any provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Written notice of a suspension or revocation shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail upon the licensee at least 15
calendar days prior to the effective date of the suspension or revocation. The
written notice shall contain the effective date of the suspension or
revocation; the facts which support the conclusion that a violation or
violations have occurred; a statement that if the licensee desires to appeal, a
written request for a hearing must be received by the county within 15 calendar
days following service; and that the request for hearing must state the grounds
for appeal. If a hearing is requested, the suspension or revocation shall be
stayed pending outcome of the hearing.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the county shall set a date,
time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the
procedures in §
112.32 of this chapter.
   (B)   Summary suspension of license.
      (1)   If the county finds that the public health, safety or welfare
requires immediate action, summary suspension of a license may be ordered.
      (2)   Written notice of a summary suspension shall be by certified return
receipt mail to the licensee’s business address. The county shall also take
reasonable steps to notify the licensee by telephone prior to the summary
suspension.
      (3)   The written notice shall state the effective date of the summary
suspension; the violation requiring emergency action, the facts which support
the conclusion that a violation has occurred; a statement that if the licensee
desires to appeal, a written request for hearing must be received by the county
within ten calendar days following service of the notice, and that the request
must state the grounds for appeal.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a request for hearing, the county shall set a date,
time and place for the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the
procedures in §
112.32 of this chapter.
      (5)   The summary suspension shall not be stayed pending an appeal.
(1993 Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.32 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Building and Zoning Committee. The hearing shall be before the
Building and Zoning Committee of the County Board.
   (B)   Pre-hearing and hearing notice. The county shall schedule and provide
notice of the date, time and place of the pre-hearing conference and hearing.
The pre-hearing conference shall be held at least three weeks prior to the
hearing. The hearing shall be held no later than 45 calendar days after receipt
for the hearing or by mutual agreement of the parties.
   (C)   Procedures. During the pre-hearing conference and hearing, the
following process shall be followed.
      (1)   The pre-hearing conference shall define the issues, schedule the
exchange of witness lists and documentary evidence, seek agreement on the
testimonial evidence, determine whether intended evidence is cumulative and
repetitive, and consider all other matters that will assist in a fair and
expeditious hearing.
      (2)   Each party shall exchange all relevant information and documentary
evidence at least one week prior to the hearing date. Such information shall
include all evidence intended for introduction at the hearing and includes, but
is not limited to, the following: exhibits; statements; reports; witness lists
including a description of the facts and opinions to which each is expected to
testify; photographs, slides, demonstrative evidence. Evidence not exchanged in
accordance with this provision will not be considered in the hearing unless
good cause is shown.
      (3)   The hearing shall be public and shall be recorded.
      (4)   All witnesses shall testify under oath or affirmation.
      (5)   The hearing is subject to the general rules of evidence with
latitude necessary to gain facts or information. Irrelevant, immaterial or
unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded.
      (6)   The county shall have the burden of proof through preponderance of
evidence.
      (7)   The county, licensee or applicant, and additional parties as
determined by the Building and Zoning Committee, shall present evidence in that
order. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses of
the other party. The Environmental Committee may examine witnesses.
      (8)   The Building and Zoning Committee shall make a written finding of
fact and conclusions based upon the evidence provided at the hearing.
      (9)   The cost of preparing a record shall be borne by the applicant or
licensee.
      (10)   Appeal of a decision by the Building and Zoning Committee shall be
made to the Circuit Court within 35 calendar days following the receipt of the
Environmental Committee decision.
(1993 Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-
2024)
§ 112.33 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall go into effect July 1, 1996.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any existing covenant or any
other private agreement, provided that where the provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such covenant
or other private agreement, the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (C)   Where requirements of ordinances and programs adopted by any
municipality or township are as stringent or more stringent than the provisions
of this chapter, the more restrictive program and/or ordinance requirements
shall govern.
(1993 Code, § 112.23) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.34 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause phrase or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(1993 Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.35 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions in this chapter are cumulative and are additional limitations
upon all other laws and ordinances covering any subject matter in this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 112.25) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.36 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by amendatory ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 112.26) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any licensed hauler who violates any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of up to $1,000. For further subsequent violation(s), the
license may be revoked for the remainder of the license term plus an additional
year. For purposes of enforcement, the time period in which these violations
accumulate shall be the period of the license. Notwithstanding these
provisions, any violation of this chapter may result in suspension or
revocation proceedings pursuant to §
112.31.
   (B)   Any person who scavenges municipal waste and recyclable materials that
have been set out by residents, or businesses, or the county specifically for
an authorized collection under this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to
$1,000. Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 94-09, passed 7-20-1994)
CHAPTER 113: POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Adoption of state codes by reference
   
113.002   Definitions
Community Water System
   
113.015   Public water supply use
Supply and System Requirements
   
113.030   Potable water supply required
   
113.031   Surface water systems
   
113.032   Cisterns
   
113.033   Prohibition of use of groundwater as a potable water supply
Abandoned Wells
   
113.045   Sealing provisions; inspection
Permits
   
113.060   Permit required
   
113.061   Permit fees
   
113.062   Permit issuance
Licensing
   
113.075   Licensing of water well contractors, pump installers, and closed loop
well contractors
Well Inspections
   
113.090   Well inspections
Enforcement
   
113.105   Notice of violation; suspension
Disinfection and Analysis
   
113.120   Semi-private water system; report; requirements
 
   
113.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Figure 1 - Groundwater Limitation Area
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES BY REFERENCE.
   In addition to those provisions set forth herein, this chapter hereby adopts
by reference the current edition and subsequent revisions of the following
Illinois Department of Public Health codes:
   (A)   Illinois Water Well Construction Code (415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.) as
embodied in 77 Ill. Admin. Code 920.10 et seq., and any subsequent amendments
or revisions thereto;
   (B)   Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code (415 ILCS 35/1 through 35/
10);
   (C)   Public Area Sanitary Practice Code (20 ILCS 2305/2 through 2305/8.1);
   (D)   Drinking Water Systems Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 900); and
   (E)   Surface Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 930).
(1993 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2014)
§ 113.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELL. A water or monitoring well which is no longer used to supply
water, or which is in such a state of disrepair that the well or boring has the
potential for transmitting contamination into an aquifer or otherwise threatens
the public health or safety.
   AQUIFER. A water bearing formation that transmits water in sufficient
quantity to supply a well.
   BOREHOLE (also known as a DRILL HOLE). An excavation that is drilled, cored,
driven, dug or otherwise constructed that penetrates an aquifer or that may
degrade the quality of the aquifer.
   CERTIFIED LABORATORY. A clinical laboratory given certification approval by
the Illinois Department of Public Health, Division of Laboratories for the
processing of official samples of water.
   CISTERN. A source of water supply developed by intercepting rainfall with
roof surfaces.
   CLOSED LOOP WELL. A sealed, watertight loop of pipe buried outside of a
building foundation intended to recirculate a liquid solution through a heat
exchanger but is limited to the construction of the borehole and the grouting
of the borehole and does not include any horizontal closed loop well systems
where grouting is not necessary by law or standard industry practice (Section 3
(h) of the Act. CLOSED LOOP HEAT PUMP means the same as CLOSED LOOP WELL.
   CLOSED LOOP WELL CONTRACTOR. Any person who installs closed loop wells for
another person. CLOSED LOOP WELL CONTRACTOR does not include the employee of a
CLOSED LOOP CONTRACTOR. (Section 3(j) of the Act.)
   CLOSED LOOP WELL SYSTEM. A clustered group of closed loop wells that serve
the same facility.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which serves at least 15
service connections used by residents, or regularly serves 25 or more residents
for at least 60 days a year and is regulated by the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
   COUNTY. The County of Madison, State of Illinois.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Public Health.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Madison County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Administrator of the County Health Department or his or
her authorized representative.
   HORIZONTAL CLOSED LOOP WELL SYSTEM. Any open cut excavation where a
watertight loop of pipe is buried outside of a building foundation that is
intended to recirculate a liquid solution through a heat exchanger.
   MONITORING WELL. A water well intended for the purpose of determining
groundwater quality or quantity.
   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system which is not a community
water system, and has at least 15 service connections used by nonresidents, or
regularly serves 25 or more nonresident individuals daily for at least 60 days
per year.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for human consumption and meets public
health standards for drinking water.
   SEMI-PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water supply which is not a public water
system, yet which serves a segment of the public other than an owner-occupied
single-family dwelling.
   SURFACE SOURCE. A supply of water which is taken from a reservoir (for
example, pond, lake or stream).
   THERMAL GROUT. A Department-approved grout specifically developed to enhance
the heat transfer in a closed loop well. Department approved closed loop well
grouts shall have permeability no greater than 1 X 10-7 centimeters per second
and all bentonite products shall comply with National Sanitation Foundation
(NSF) International requirements. The Department will maintain a list of
approved closed loop well grouts on its website at www.idph.org.
   WATER WELL. An excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven,
dug, jetted or otherwise constructed when the intended use is for the location,
diversion, artificial re-charge or acquisition of groundwater.
(1993 Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2014)
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM
§ 113.015 PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY USE.
   In those locations where a community water system is reasonably available,
that supply should be the sole source of water for drinking and culinary
purposes. REASONABLY AVAILABLE shall mean the subject property is located
within 200 feet of the community water system to which connection is practical
and is permitted by the controlling authority for said water supply.
(1993 Code, § 113.10) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996)
SUPPLY AND SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.030 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED.
   All premises intended for human habitation or occupancy shall be provided
with a potable water supply. Each potable water supply shall provide quantities
of water that are sufficient for the drinking, culinary and sanitary needs of
the dwelling or premises served. A minimum system pressure of 20 pounds per
square inch shall be maintained throughout each potable water supply.
(1993 Code, § 113.20) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996)
§ 113.031 SURFACE WATER SYSTEMS.
   All water systems which receive their source of water from ponds, lakes,
streams, rivers or other surface collections of water shall be designed,
constructed and operated in accordance with the Surface Water Treatment Code,
77 Ill. Adm. Code 930.
(1993 Code, § 113.21) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996)
§ 113.032 CISTERNS.
   Cisterns shall not be used as a potable water supply except where adequate
groundwater resources are not available. Cistern water shall receive treatment
in accordance with the Surface Water Treatment Code. Abandoned cisterns shall
be filled with an impermeable material such as clay.
(1993 Code, § 113.22) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.033 PROHIBITION OF USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited. Except for
such methods in existence before the effective date of the ordinance, the use
or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within "restricted
areas", as specified and depicted in Appendix A at the end of this chapter, by
the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes Madison County.
   (B)   Definitions.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assignees.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Res. passed 10-17-2012; Ord. 2017-01A, passed 2-2-2017; Ord. 2019-02, passed -
- ; Ord. 2020-07, passed 11-18-2020; Ord. 2021-02, passed 6-16-2021) Penalty,
see §
113.999
ABANDONED WELLS
§ 113.045 SEALING PROVISIONS; INSPECTION.
   Wells that are abandoned shall be sealed in a manner prescribed by the
Health Department and the Illinois Water Well Construction Code. The sealing of
all abandoned wells shall be inspected by the Health Official to determine
compliance with this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 113.30) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996)
PERMITS
§ 113.060 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No water well shall be constructed or deepened except in accordance
with this chapter, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with such work unless a
permit has first been obtained from the Health Department.
   (B)   A non-community water system shall not be constructed without first
obtaining a permit from the Illinois Department of Public Health.
   (C)   No closed loop well shall be constructed, modified, or sealed except
in accordance with these regulations, and, it shall be unlawful to proceed with
the construction, modification, sealing of a closed loop well without obtaining
a permit from the Health Department.
   (D)   Every closed loop well application shall be signed by the registered
closed loop well contractor.
   (E)   The application shall be accompanied by a drawing indicating lot size,
the location of property lines, distance from proposed closed loop well system
construction to water wells, septic tanks, abandoned wells, seepage fields,
sewers, and all other sources of contamination, if they are within 200 feet of
a closed loop well.
(1993 Code, § 113.40) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2015) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.061 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a non-refundable fee of $100 charged for each water
well permit.
   (B)   There shall be a non-refundable fee of $100 charged for up to five
boreholes with $20 for each borehole thereafter for each closed loop well.
(1993 Code, § 113.41) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2014)
§ 113.062 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner, well contractor, or
the closed loop well contractor, to obtain a permit before any construction or
deepening of a water well commences; and it is unlawful for a closed loop well
contractor to proceed with construction, modification, or sealing of a closed
loop well without obtaining a permit. Failure of the property owner to obtain a
permit before commencement shall constitute a violation of this chapter. It
shall be the responsibility of the water well contractor to ensure that a
permit has been issued before any construction or deepening of a water well
commences and to follow the conditions of said permit. Failure of the water
well contractor to ensure said permit has been issued and violation of the
conditions of said permit shall constitute separate and distinct violations of
this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 113.42) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2014) Penalty, see §
113.999
LICENSING
§ 113.075 LICENSING OF WATER WELL CONTRACTORS, PUMP INSTALLERS, AND CLOSED LOOP
WELL CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   All individuals who construct water wells and install or repair well
pumps shall be licensed with the Illinois Department of Public Health in
accordance with the Water Well and Pump Installation Contractor’s License Act,
Chapter III, Paragraph 7101 et seq., as revised.
   (B)   All individuals who install closed loop wells in Madison County shall
possess a valid certificate of registration issued by the Illinois Department
of Public Health.
(1993 Code, § 113.50) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2014) Penalty, see §
113.999
WELL INSPECTIONS
§ 113.090 WELL INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Department shall be notified at least 48 hours prior to the
commencement of any work to construct or deepen a water well for which a permit
has been issued, or to seal a water well, boring or monitoring well or to
construct, modify, or seal a closed loop well. The Health Officer shall be
allowed access to any property for the purpose of performing inspection of
water well construction or to inspect the sealing of wells or to investigate
abandoned wells. It shall be the responsibility of the water well contractor or
registered closed loop well contractor to notify the Health Department as
required.
(1993 Code, § 113.60) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed
12-17-2014)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 113.105 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Upon inspection by the Health Officer, if it is found that any
provisions of this chapter or any permit specification has been violated, the
Health Department shall notify the installer to make such specified changes in
the work as necessary for compliance with this chapter and said permit.
   (B)   If such changes are not made within the period of time specified by
the Health Department, said permit shall be suspended and it shall be unlawful
to place the water well into operation.
(1993 Code, § 113.70) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996) Penalty, see §
113.999
DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS
§ 113.120 SEMI-PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM; REPORT; REQUIREMENTS.
   Owners of newly constructed wells or other types of water sources which
supply a semi-private water system shall have the water from the semi-private
water system analyzed by a certified laboratory prior to utilizing the water
system for drinking and culinary purposes. A copy of the analysis report shall
be filed with the Health Department. Water obtained from a surface source or a
water well shall meet the nitrate, turbidity and bacteriological requirements
contained in the Drinking Water Systems Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 930.
(1993 Code, § 113.80) (Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any permit holder who violates the provisions of this chapter or any
of the regulations promulgated hereunder, shall be subject to prosecution for
an offense for each and every day on which the violation continues and each day
that the offense continues shall constitute a separate offense. The permit
holder shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense.
(1993 Code, § 113.99)
   (B)   Any person violating the provision of §
113.033 shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 5-1-1996; Res. passed 10-17-2012; Ord. 2017-01A, passed 2-
2-2017; Ord. 2019-02, passed - - ; Ord. 2020-07, passed 11-18-2020; Ord. 2021-
02, passed 6-16-2021)
APPENDIX A:
FIGURE 1: NORTH PARCELS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2019.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8945bf5d579debda4f8110088195052118c02fac/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2017.png]
 
(Ord. 2017-01A, passed 2-2-2017; Ord. 2019-02, passed - - ; Ord. 2020-07,
passed 11-18-2020; Ord. 2021-02, passed 6-16-2021)
CHAPTER 114: STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
114.001   Authority and purpose
   
114.002   Other relevant permitting
   
114.003   Applicability
   
114.004   Exemptions
   
114.005   Exceptions
   
114.006   Responsibility
   
114.007   Definitions
   
114.008   NPDES compliance
   
114.009   Information accessibility to the public
Stormwater Drainage and Detention
   
114.020   Drainage plan submittal requirements
   
114.021   Minimization of increases in runoff volumes and rates
   
114.022   Water quality and multiple uses
   
114.023   Design criteria, standards and methods
   
114.024   Accommodating flows from upstream tributary areas
   
114.025   Early completion of detention facilities
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
   
114.040   Findings
   
114.041   General principles
   
114.042   Erosion and sediment control plan submittal requirements
   
114.043   Design and operation standards and requirements
   
114.044   Maintenance of control measures
   
114.045   Control of construction waste sites
   
114.046   Construction site stormwater pollution prevention plan
Long Term Maintenance Responsibility
   
114.060   Long term maintenance responsibility
Inspections
   
114.075   Inspections
   
114.076   Special precautions
   
114.077   Amendment of plans
Permitting
   
114.090   Application for development permit
   
114.091   Bond required
   
114.092   Review and approval
   
114.093   Final certification
   
114.094   Expiration of development permit
   
114.095   Appeals
Enforcement
   
114.110   Stop work order; revocation of development permit
Filling of Property
   
114.125   Definitions
   
114.125   Natural drainage
   
114.127   Landowner
   
114.128   Penalty for obstructing or injuring drain
   
114.129   Permit required
   
114.130   Soil erosion control
   
114.131   Applications
   
114.132   No excess grading
   
114.133   Grading at property line
   
114.134   Issuance or denial
   
114.135   Fee
   
114.136   Leveling of fill
   
114.137   Enforcement
 
   
114.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.001 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
county by 55 ILCS 5/5-1041, 5/5-1113, 5/5-12001 and 5/5-15001.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to diminish threats to public health
and safety, protect property, prevent damage to the environment and promote
public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction,
use and maintenance of any new development or redevelopment or other activity
which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of
earth, and/or changes the stormwater drainage pattern and/or stormwater flows
from that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its natural
state. This stormwater runoff and resulting soil erosion could result in the
inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and destabilization of
downstream channels, and the pollution of valuable stream and lake resources.
This chapter regulates these activities to minimize adverse impacts.
   (C)   This chapter is adopted to accomplish the following objectives:
      (1)   To assure that new development or redevelopment does not increase
the drainage or flood hazards, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
soil erosion;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage due to increased stormwater runoff and soil erosion;
      (3)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased
flooding and soil erosion on a watershed basis;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems, and flood rescue and relief operations caused by stormwater
runoff and soil erosion quantities from new development or redevelopment;
      (5)   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land
and soil, water, air, animal and plant resources;
      (6)   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats;
and
      (7)   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in
order to manage flood and stormwater impacts, improve water and groundwater
quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, maintain
quality forest resources, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits, enhance community and economic development.
   (D)   The purpose of this chapter is also to comply with the General
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit.
(1993 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000; Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-
18-2008)
§ 114.002 OTHER RELEVANT PERMITTING.
   Before a development permit under this chapter becomes effective, all
required federal, state and local permits will have been officially approved.
The acquisition of these permits shall be the sole responsibility of the
applicant. These may include, but are not limited to, § 404 of the Clean Waters
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1344, § 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act,
being 16 U.S.C. § 470f, § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
403 or permitting required by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources,
Office of Water Resources in accordance with the Rivers, Lakes and Streams Act,
615 ILCS 5/, the Soil and Water Conservation Districts Act, 70 ILCS 405/, the
Farmland Preservation Act, 505 ILCS 75/, the Illinois Groundwater Protection
Act, 415 ILCS 55/ and the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
Permit (NPDES) through the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division
of Water Pollution Control. Compliance is also required with but not limited
to, the Development Code of the county including Chapter 92, Subdivision
Regulations and Chapter 93, Zoning Code.
(1993 Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all new development or redevelopment in the
unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation, public or private, the state and its agencies or political
subdivisions, the United States of America, and its agencies or political
subdivisions, any agent, servant, officer or employee of any of the foregoing
which meets the following provisions or is otherwise exempted in this chapter,
shall commence any development activities without first having obtained a
development permit from the Building and Zoning Administrator of the county:
      (1)   Any new development or redevelopment contains an area 10,000 or
more square feet of total impervious surface (i.e., streets, roof, patio or
parking area or any combination thereof);
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill or any combination thereof) that affects an area of 10,000 or
more square feet, or that will exceed 100 cubic yards;
      (3)   Any land disturbing activity if the activity is within 25 feet of a
river, lake, pond, stream, sinkhole or wetland; and is done in conjunction with
divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section; or
      (4)   Any land disturbing activity on the sloping side of the slope
disturbance line and is in conjunction with divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3)
of this section.
(1993 Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A development permit shall not be required for the following:
      (1)   Any new development, redevelopment or other activity falling below
the minimum standards as set forth in §
114.003;
      (2)   The agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the Soil
and Water Conservation District, and including the construction of agricultural
structures;
      (3)   The maintenance of any existing stormwater drainage/detention
component or structure or any existing soil erosion/sediment control component
or structure; including dredging, levee restoration, tree removal or other
function which maintains the original design capacities of the above; and
      (4)   The construction of, improvements to or the maintenance of any
street, road, highway or interstate highway performed by any unit of government
whose powers grant such authority.
   (B)   (1)   A development permit is required for these uses but shall not be
subject to the provisions of §§
114.020 through
114.025; and
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity that is one acre (43,560 square feet)
or less; or development of tracts of land where not more than one single-family
dwelling is being erected; or, any lots in a new subdivision of land where the
lots front and have their sole access on an existing street or roadway.
(1993 Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.005 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Board of Appeals may, in accordance with the following procedures,
authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and regulations set forth in
this chapter.
   (A)   Application for exception shall be made by a verified petition of the
applicant for a development permit, stating fully the grounds of the petition
and the facts relied upon by the applicant. Such petition shall be filed with
the development permit application. In order for the petition to be granted, it
shall be necessary that the Board of Appeals find all of the following facts
with the respect to the land referred to in the application:
      (1)   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations or record, that it
is impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the
requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
      (3)   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare, environment or injurious to other property in the vicinity of
the subjects property.
   (B)   Each application for an exception shall be made to the Building and
Zoning Administrator. The Administrator will review and transmit
recommendations to the Board of Appeals, which shall review such
recommendations prior to granting or denying the exception.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on each application
for exception, within 30 days after receiving the application, in the manner by
ordinance. Within 30 days after public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall
either approve the site development permit application with the exceptions and
conditions it deems necessary or it shall disapprove such development permit
application and exception application, or it shall take other such action as
appropriate.
(1993 Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.006 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The applicant shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons
or property otherwise imposed by law, and the county or its officers or agents
will not be made liable for such damage, by the issuance of a development
permit under this chapter, compliance with the provisions of that development
permit or conditions attached to it by the Building and Zoning Administrator,
failure of county officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly
conditions, failure of county officials to recommend denial or to deny a
development permit, or exemptions from development permit requirements of this
chapter.
(1993 Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERSE IMPACTS. Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality and quantity.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or governmental agency who executes the
necessary forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to
carry out construction of a new development or redevelopment from the county.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation at all locations delineating the level
of flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event, which has a 1%
chance of occurring in any given year.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the county for the construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building and the related ground and
surface preparation prior to and after completion of construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
   BYPASS FLOWS. Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property’s drainage system but not under its control.
   CERTIFY or CERTIFICATION. Formally attesting that the specific inspections
and tests were performed, and that such inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   CHANNEL. Any defined river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or
artificial depression, ponded area, on-stream lake or impoundment, Karst area
(sinkhole), flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash or
natural or human-made drainage way, which has a definite bed and bank or
shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or
intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), filling, widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the human-made
clearing of debris or removal of trash.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the natural vegetative ground cover.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structure are placed within the floodplain.
   CONDUIT. Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
   CUBIC YARD. A one yard by one yard by one yard amount of material in
excavation and/or fill.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release by gravity of
this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
   DETENTION TIME. The amount of time stormwater is held within a detention
basin.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to real estate or property, including:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of any duly recorded parcel of
property;
      (2)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days per year;
      (4)   Construction of roads, bridges or similar projects;
      (5)   Redevelopment of a site;
      (6)   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
non-agricultural alterations of a ground surface;
      (7)   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste; and
      (8)   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
direction or velocity of stormwater flows from a property.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
   DRY BASIN. A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of
stormwater flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
   EROSION. The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or
any other similar material, is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, re-located or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
from such actions.
   EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF. The volume and rate of flow of stormwater
discharged from a new development or redevelopment which is or will be in
excess of that volume and rate which existed before development or
redevelopment.
   EXISTING GRADE. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior
to excavation or filling.
   FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material, is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
people to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
   FINAL GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface after grading work
is completed in accordance with the engineering plans.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area as designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) on either side of the floodway. This area is subject to
inundation from the base flood but conveys little or no flow.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A very generalized map prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) which shows only where floodplains
are located based on very basic data. FHBMs do not include base flood
elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and regulatory
floodplains and may or may not depict regulatory floodways.
   FLOODPLAIN. That land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood elevation
which is subject to inundation. The FLOODPLAIN as designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is also known as the SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
AREA (SFHA) . These areas can be found on the FIRM, Flood Boundary and Floodway
Map or the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) of the community. This area is the
collective combination of the regulatory floodway and the flood fringe.
   FLOODWAY. The channel and that portion of the floodplain, including on-
stream lakes, adjacent to a stream or watercourse which is needed to store and
convey the anticipated existing and future 100-year frequency flood discharge
with no more than a 0:1 foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood
conveyance or storage and no more than a 10% increase in velocities. FLOODWAYS
are designated by FEMA on some Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps. However, there are FLOODWAYS on all streams whether mapped by
FEMA or not.
   GRADING. The excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
   HYDROGRAPH. A graph showing for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
   HYDROGRAPH METHOD. This method estimates runoff volume and runoff
hydrographs for the point of interest by generating hydrographs for individual
sub areas, combining them and routing them through stream lengths and reservoir
structures. Factors such as rainfall amount and distribution, runoff curve
number, time of concentration and travel time are included.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. That area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb water,
such as parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis courts, roofs and
other structures.
   INFILTRATION. The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
   LOESSAL SOIL. A sediment, commonly non-stratified and un-consolidated,
composed predominately of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
   LOT. An individual platted parcel in an approved subdivision.
   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and, where human-made, is to be designed to handle
the two-year runoff event.
   MITIGATION. When the prescribed controls are not sufficient and additional
measures are required to offset the development, including those measures
necessary to minimize the negative effects which stormwater drainage and
development activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare.
Examples of MITIGATION include, but are not limited to, compensatory storage,
soil erosion and sedimentation control and channel restoration.
   MODIFIED RATIONAL METHOD. As described in the Illinois Department of
Transportation Drainage Manual is based on the principal that the maximum rate
of runoff from a given drainage area occurs at that point in time when all
parts of the watershed are contributing to the flow. The rainfall generating
the peak flow is assumed to be of uniform intensity for the entire watershed
with a rainfall duration equal to the time of concentration.
   NATURAL. Conditions resulting from physical, chemical and biological
processes without intervention by humans.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR EVENT. A rainfall, runoff or flood event having a 1% chance
of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed unless
otherwise noted.
   PARCEL. All contiguous land in one ownership.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel
or conduit.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a building permit is issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the state
and its agencies or political subdivisions, the United States of America, and
its agencies or political subdivisions, and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
   POSITIVE DRAINAGE. Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Land that is best suited to food, feed, forage, fiber and
oilseed crops. It may be cropland, pasture, woodland or other land, but it is
not urban and built up land or water areas. It is either used for food or fiber
or is available for those uses. The soil qualities, growing season and moisture
supply are those needed for a well managed soil to economically produce a
sustained high yield of crops. PRIME FARMLAND produces the highest yields with
minimum inputs of energy and economic resources, and farming it results in the
least damage to the environment.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of real estate.
   RETENTION BASIN. A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount
of stormwater runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration, emergency bypass or pumping.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
   SINKHOLE, (KARST AREAS). A land surface depression or blind valley which may
or may not have surface openings to cavernous underground areas and are the
result of water movement through silts and jointed limestone. These conditions
make such areas unstable and susceptible to subsidence and surface collapse.
Fractures in the limestone may channel runoff water to public or private water
supplies, making those sources especially susceptible to groundwater
contamination.
   SITE. A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
   SLOPE DISTURBANCE LINE. The line which delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed 8% and where special precautions must be
taken.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural and human-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final
outlet from a property. The STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features, canals,
channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention basins,
swales and pumping stations.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling
within a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration
capacity of the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground
or are collected in channels or conduits.
   STREAM. Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine or natural or
human-made drainage way which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or
into which surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or intermittently.
   STRIPPING. Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, by spraying or clearing, and storage or removal of top soil.
   TEN-YEAR EVENT. A runoff, rainfall or flood event having a 10% chance of
occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed unless
otherwise noted.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION. The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
   TRIBUTARY WATERSHED. All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to
a given point.
   TWO-YEAR EVENT. A runoff, rainfall or flood event having a 50% chance of
occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed unless
otherwise noted.
   VACANT. Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
   WATERSHED. All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
stream, creek, ditch, lake, marsh, stormwater facility, groundwater or
depressional area.
   WET BASIN. A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
   WETLANDS. Defined by regulation as “those areas that are inundated or
saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.” For general, but not
inclusive locations of designated wetlands refer to mapping prepared jointly by
the United States Department of Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service and the
Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Resource Conservation;
National Wetlands Inventory Mapping, 1987. The applicant may be required to
provide a field investigation by a qualified wetland delineator.
(1993 Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.008 NPDES COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Generally. New and redevelopment that is applicable to this chapter
(per §
114.003) must comply with the NPDES regulations (General National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit regulations and the notice of
intent (NOI)). NPDES compliance is obtained by adhering to this chapter, ILR10
permits, the General NPDES for the county and the NOI submitted for each
individual community and all future steps taken by the individual communities
to implement the NOI.
   (B)   Public education and outreach on stormwater impacts. In accordance
with the General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the Public Education and Outreach on
Stormwater Impacts.
   (C)   Public involvement/participation. In accordance with the General NPDES
Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and implement activities
as outlined in the Public Involvement/Participation.
   (D)   Illicit discharge detection and elimination. In accordance with the
General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the Illicit Discharge Detection and
Elimination.
   (E)   Construction site stormwater runoff control. In accordance with the
General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the Construction Site Stormwater Runoff
Control.
   (F)   Post-construction stormwater management in new development and
redevelopment. In accordance with the General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the
NOI, the county will comply and implement activities as outlined in the Post-
Construction Stormwater Management In New Development and Redevelopment.
   (G)   Pollution prevention/good housekeeping. In accordance with the General
NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and implement
activities as outlined in the Pollution Prevention/Good Housekeeping.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-18-2008)
§ 114.009 INFORMATION ACCESSIBILITY TO THE PUBLIC.
   Documents relating to the adherence to this chapter are available for review
by request at the County Administration Building.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-18-2008)
STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION
§ 114.020 DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Each applicant shall submit the following information, to ensure that the
provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal shall include sufficient
information to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the property, the
potential adverse impacts and benefits of the development on water resources
both on-site and off-site, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan
in managing stormwater runoff, and meet the provisions of §
114.002. The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all clearing,
grading, drainage and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance
with the drainage plan. The following information shall be submitted for both
existing and proposed property conditions for all new development or
redevelopment:
   (A)   Drainage plan requirements. A topographic survey of the property at
two-foot contours unless otherwise specified or approved by the county. If the
mapping is compiled using a digital format and the global positioning system
(GPS), the applicant will provide both paper and digital copies including GPS
points;
   (B)   Mapping and descriptions. An existing drainage and proposed drainage
plan, for the property and 100 feet surrounding the property at a scale of not
more than 100 feet to one inch and including the following:
      (1)   Property boundary, dimensions and approximate acreage;
      (2)   Building setback lines;
      (3)   All existing and proposed structures and sizes;
      (4)   “Area in” square feet of existing and proposed impervious surface;
      (5)   All existing or proposed easements;
      (6)   All existing, abandoned or proposed water or monitoring well head
locations;
      (7)   All sanitary or combined sewer lines and septic systems;
      (8)   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
      (9)   Shoreline of lakes, ponds and detention basins with normal water
level elevation;
      (10)   Known farm drains and tiles;
      (11)   Soils classifications;
      (12)   Location, size and slope of stormwater conduits and drainage
swales;
      (13)   Depressional storage areas;
      (14)   Detention facilities;
      (15)   Roads, streets and associated stormwater inlets including finished
grades;
      (16)   Base flood elevation, flood fringe and regulatory floodway;
      (17)   Basis of design for the final drainage network components;
      (18)   A statement giving any applicable engineering assumptions and
calculations;
      (19)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the site to its general
surroundings at a scale of not less than 2,000 feet to one inch (1:24,000);
      (20)   Title, scale, north arrow, legend, seal of licensed professional
engineer, date and name of person preparing plans;
      (21)   Cross-section data for open channel flow paths and designated
overland flow paths;
      (22)   Direction of storm flows;
      (23)   Flow rates and velocities at critical points in the drainage
system (may be included in the supporting documentation);
      (24)   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system’s
provision for handling events greater than the 100-year, 24-hour runoff (may be
included in the supporting documentation); and
      (25)   A statement of certification of all drainage plans, calculations
and supporting data by a licensed professional engineer.
   (C)   Environmental features. A depiction of environmental features of the
property and immediate vicinity including the following:
      (1)   The limits of designated regulatory and non-regulatory wetland
areas;
      (2)   The location and limits of known sinkholes (Karst areas);
      (3)   Any known designated natural areas, prime farmland; and
      (4)   Any known proposed environmental mitigation features.
(1993 Code, § 114.20) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.021 MINIMIZATION OF INCREASES IN RUNOFF VOLUMES AND RATES.
   In the selection of a drainage plan for a new development or redevelopment,
the applicant shall evaluate and implement site design features which minimize
the increase in runoff volumes and rates from the site. The applicant’s
drainage plan submittal shall include evaluations of site design features which
are consistent with the following hierarchy:
   (A)   Preservation of regulatory floodplains, flood prone and wetland areas;
   (B)   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property, consistent with the
needs of the project;
   (C)   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions and preserves the existing natural stream channel.
   (D)   Infiltration of runoff on-site;
   (E)   Provide stormwater retention structures;
   (F)   Provide wet or wetland detention structures;
   (G)   Provide dry detention structures; and
   (H)   Construct storm sewers.
(1993 Code, § 114.21) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.022 WATER QUALITY AND MULTIPLE USES.
   (A)   The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse surface and
groundwater quality impacts off-site and on the property itself. Detention
basins shall incorporate design features to capture stormwater runoff
pollutants. When designers propose wet bottom and wetland type designs, and all
flows from the development shall be routed through the basin (i.e., low flows
shall not be bypassed). When it is not practical or feasible to route all of
the project’s flow to the detention basin, the design of the basin shall
compensate for the bypass flow. In cases where detention facilities are
practical and the long term maintenance of such facilities are provided for,
detention of stormwater shall be promoted throughout the property’s drainage
system to reduce the volume of stormwater runoff and to reduce the quantity of
runoff pollutants.
   (B)   The drainage system should incorporate multiple uses where
practicable. Uses considered compatible with stormwater management include open
space, aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating, fishing, trails,
playing fields), wetlands and water quality mitigation.
   (C)   Water quality shall adhere to:
      (1)   Illinois Environmental Protection Act: 415 ILCS 5/11 and 5/12;
      (2)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulation: Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter 1, Pollution
Control Board, Part 302 Water Quality Standards; and
      (3)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Title 35,
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C, Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 304 Effluent Standard.
(1993 Code, § 114.22) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000; Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-
18-2008) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.023 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND METHODS.
   (A)   Design criteria.
      (1)   Release rates. The drainage system for new developments or
redevelopments shall be designed to control the peak rate of discharge from the
property for the two-year, 24-hour and 100-year, 24-hour events as specified
below, to levels which will not cause an increase in flooding or channel
instability downstream when considered in aggregate with other developed
properties and downstream drainage capacities.
      (2)   Detention basin outlet design. The detention basin outlet structure
shall address downstream backwater conditions. An overflow device or emergency
spillway shall be designed for the 100-year design frequency and calculated
assuming no flow is entering the weir or low-flow device.
   (B)   Detention storage requirements. The maximum design storage to be
provided in detention basins shall be based on the runoff from the 100-year
frequency storm event. A minimum of one foot of freeboard shall be provided
from the top of berm elevation to the elevation of the 100-year overflow water
surface.
   (C)   Drainage system design and evaluation. The following criteria should
be used in evaluating and designing the drainage system. The design will
provide capacity to pass the ten-year peak flow rate in the minor drainage
system and an overload flow path for flows in excess of the design capacity.
      (1)   Design methodologies. Detention basin design shall be calculated
using SCS TR-55 methods. Basins with drainage areas of ten acres or less may be
calculated using the rational method as approved by the Illinois Department of
Transportation. Other applicable methods, i.e., HEC-1, TR-20, SWMM and the like
shall be used for large watersheds.
      (2)   Positive drainage. Whenever practicable, all developments must be
provided an overland flow path that will pass the 100-year, 24-hour event flow
at a stage at least one foot below the lowest grade, adjacent to a structure,
in the vicinity of the flow path. Street ponding and flow depths shall not
exceed curb heights.
   (D)   Rainfall. Unless a continuous simulation approach to drainage system
hydrology is used, all design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
State Water Survey’s Bulletin 70. The first quartile point rainfall
distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of conveyance systems
with critical durations less than or equal to 12 hours. The third quartile
point rainfall distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of
detention basins and conveyance system with critical durations greater than 12
and less than or equal to 24 hours. The fourth quartile distribution shall be
used in the design and analysis of systems with durations greater than 24
hours. The first, third and fourth quartile distributions described by Huff are
presented in Table 37 of Bulletin 70. Refer to Table 13 of Bulletin 70 for
rainfall depth, duration and frequency. The NRCS Type II distribution may be
used as an alternate to the Huff distributions.
   (E)   Antecedent moisture. Computations of runoff hydrographs which do not
rely on a continuous accounting of antecedent moisture conditions shall use wet
antecedent moisture condition as a minimum.
   (F)   Wet detention basin design. Wet detention basins shall be designed to
remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as
much as feasible to be available for recreational use.
      (1)   Wet basin depths. Wet basins shall be at least three feet deep,
excluding near-shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be
provided, they shall be at least eight feet deep over 25% of the bottom area to
prevent winterkill.
      (2)   Wet basin shoreline slopes. The side slopes of wet basins at the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than three to one (three to one
horizontal to vertical). It is recommended that aquatic vegetation be
established around the perimeter to provide protection from shoreline erosion.
For basins in excess of five acres, riprap shoreline protection shall be
provided.
      (3)   Permanent pool volume. The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall, at a minimum, be equal to the runoff volume from its
watershed for the two-year, 24-hour event (calculated during dry weather
conditions).
      (4)   Wet basin inlet and outlet orientation. The distance between
detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at
opposite ends of the basin providing that the orientation does not create undue
hardship based on topography or other natural constraints. Designers are
encouraged to use baffles or berms in the basin bottom to prevent short
circuiting. There shall be no low flow bypass between the inlet and outlet. The
minimum flow length shall be ten feet with a recommended minimum ratio of two
to one for width.
   (G)   Dry detention basin design. In addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, dry basins shall be designed to remove stormwater pollutants, to
be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as much as feasible to be available
for multiple uses. Paved low flow channels may be used in a dry basin provided
provisions are made to prevent ponding.
      (1)   Dry basin drainage. Dry basins shall be designed so that 80% of
their bottom area shall have standing water no longer than 72 hours for any
runoff event less than the 100-year, 24-hour event. Grading plans shall clearly
distinguish the wet portion of the basin bottom. Underdrains directed to the
outlet may be used to accomplish this requirement.
      (2)   Velocity dissipation. Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize resuspension of pollutants.
      (3)   Dry basin inlet and outlet orientation. Shall be the same as
division (F)(4) of this section.
   (H)   Existing depressional areas. Existing depressional storage volume will
be maintained and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to existing storage.
   (I)   Minimum detention outlet size. Where a single pipe outlet or orifice
plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of
12 inches for larger basins. Smaller basins may install a smaller rectangular
or V-notch wier to control discharge. If this minimum orifice size permits
release rates greater than those specified in this section, and regional
detention is not a practical alternative, outlets, structures such as
perforated risers, or flow control orifices shall be used.
   (J)   Detention in floodplains. The placement of detention basins within the
floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their reliable
operation during flood events. However, the stormwater detention requirements
of this chapter may be fulfilled by providing detention storage within flood
fringe areas on the project site provided the following provisions are met as
well as compliance with §
114.002.
      (1)   Detention in flood fringe areas. The placement of a detention basin
in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for one and one-half
times the volume below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention basin
including any berms. The release from the detention storage provided shall
still be controlled consistent with the requirements of this section. The
applicant shall demonstrate its operation for all stream-flow and floodplain
backwater conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses
shall be opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain
storage lost below the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be replaced
below the existing ten-year elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the
existing ten-year flood elevation shall be replaced above the existing ten-year
flood elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to
drain freely and openly to the watercourse and comply with §
114.002.
      (2)   Detention on prime farmland. The placement of detention basins
shall avoid the utilization of prime farmland. All detention basin construction
shall examine potential impacts to adjacent agricultural land and shall address
measures that will be implemented to eliminate such impacts and comply with §
114.002.
      (3)   Detention in floodways. Detention basins shall be placed in the
floodway only in accordance with this division (J).
      (4)   On-stream detention. On-stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the
100-year 24-hour events from the property. Further criteria are presented in §
114.024 of this chapter. If on-stream detention is used in watersheds larger
than one square mile, the applicant will use hydrographic modeling to
demonstrate that the design will not increase the water level for any
properties upstream or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the
stream as part of on-stream detention:
         (a)   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species,
which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
         (b)   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water
quality or stream aquatic habitat;
         (c)   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin;
         (d)   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
         (e)   Shall require the implementation of an effective non-point
source management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include
as a minimum: runoff reduction best management practices (BMPs) consistent with
§
114.021; two year, 24-hour detention/sedimentation basins for all development
consistent with this division (J)(4);
         (f)   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge;
         (g)   Shall not contribute to the duration or flood frequency of any
adjacent land; and
         (h)   Shall comply with §
114.002.
   (K)   Drainage into wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, and
depressional storage areas. Wetlands, lakes, ponds and depressional storage
areas shall be protected from damaging modifications and adverse changes in
runoff quality and quantity associated with land developments. In addition to
the other requirements of this chapter, the following requirements shall be met
for all developments whose drainage flows into wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds
or depressional storage areas.
      (1)   Detention in wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas. Existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas shall not be modified for the purposes of stormwater
detention unless it is demonstrated that the proposed modifications will
maintain or improve its habitat and ability to perform beneficial functions and
shall comply with §
114.002. Existing storage and release rate characteristics of wetlands, rivers,
lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas shall be maintained and the volume
of detention storage provided to meet the requirements of this section shall be
in addition to this existing storage.
      (2)   Sediment control. The existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds, or
depressional storage areas shall be protected during construction and as
further regulated in §§
114.040 through
114.044.
      (3)   Alteration of drainage patterns. Site drainage patterns shall not
be altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas.
      (4)   Detention/sedimentation. All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the two-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least 24 hours, before being
discharged to the wetland, river, lake, pond or depressional storage area. This
basin shall be constructed before property grading begins and shall be
maintained throughout the construction process. In addition, the drainage
hierarchy defined in §
114.020 should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and rates being
discharged to the wetland, river, stream, lake, pond or depressional storage
area and as further regulated in this section.
      (5)   Loessal soils. Care must be taken to avoid open flow discharges of
stormwater over silt (loessal) soils due to high potential for erosion.
      (6)   Sinkholes, Karst area. The following requirements apply for new
developments or redevelopments where sinkholes are determined to be present:
         (a)   A stormwater detention basin shall not be placed in or over a
sinkhole;
         (b)   Stormwater detention basins shall not be located closer than 100
feet from the rim of a sinkhole;
         (c)   The outflow from a stormwater detention basin, channel, ditch or
any stormwater runoff generated as a result of a new development or
redevelopment shall not empty into or be directed, redirected by any means into
or through any sinkhole;
         (d)   If, after the review of the stormwater drainage plan, the
Building and Zoning Administrator may determine that more detailed information
is required, a sinkhole evaluation may be required. A sinkhole evaluation which
addresses the geologic, engineering and environmental factors resulting from a
new development or redevelopment be performed by a professional with experience
and expertise in Karst topography, whom shall certify the results of the
evaluation. This evaluation shall be the responsibility of the applicant and
performed at no cost to the county. After a review of this evaluation and with
the consultation of the County Soil and Water Conservation District, the County
Building and Zoning Administrator may either approve or disapprove the drainage
plan as submitted;
         (e)   Whenever a new sinkhole appears or it becomes apparent that the
sinkhole has not yet been identified, it shall be reported to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District; and
         (f)   Shall comply with §
114.002.
   (L)   Street detention, parking lot detention and culvert drainage.
      (1)   Street detention. If streets are to be used as part of the minor or
major drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb heights and shall
not remain flooded for more than eight hours for any event less than or equal
to the 100-year, 24-hour event.
      (2)   Parking lot detention. The maximum stormwater ponding depth in any
parking area shall not exceed six inches for more than four hours.
      (3)   Culvert, road and driveway crossings. Sizing of culvert crossings
shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as tailwater conditions on the
culvert.
   (M)   Infiltration.
      (1)   Infiltration practices. To effectively reduce runoff volumes,
infiltration practices including basins, trenches and porous pavement should be
located in hydrologic soil groups “A” and “B” as designated by the U.S.D.A.
Natural Resources Conservation Service. Infiltration basins and trenches
designed to re-charge groundwater shall not be located within 75 feet of a
water supply well or building foundation and comply with §
114.002. A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove coarse sediment
from stormwater flows before they reach infiltration basins or trenches.
Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more than 72 hours over 80% of the dry
basin’s bottom area for the maximum design event to be ex-filtrated. The bottom
of infiltration basins or trenches shall be a minimum of four feet above the
seasonally high groundwater and bedrock level. Engineering calculations
demonstrating infiltration rates shall be included with the application.
      (2)   Vegetated filter strips and swales. To effectively filter
stormwater pollutants and promote infiltration of runoff, sites should be
designed to maximize the use of vegetated filter strips and swales. Whenever
practicable, runoff from impervious surfaces should be directed onto filter
strips and swales comprised of native grasses and shrubs before being routed to
a storm sewer or detention basin.
   (N)   Safety considerations. The drainage system components, especially all
detention basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or
adults coming in contact with the system during runoff events and shall comply
with §
114.002.
      (1)   Side slopes. The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year,
24-hour capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls
into the basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of
detention basins and open channels shall not be steeper than three to one
(horizontal to vertical).
      (2)   Safety ledge. All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge at least four feet in width two and one-half to three feet below the
normal water depth or must be protected by an enclosed fence, at least 48
inches in height.
      (3)   Velocity. Velocities throughout the surface drainage system shall
be controlled to safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of
flow.
      (4)   Overflow structures. All stormwater detention basins shall be
provided with an overflow structure capable of safely passing excess flows at a
stage at least one foot below the lowest grade elevation, adjacent to the
structure, in the vicinity of the detention basin. The design flow rate of the
overflow structure shall be equivalent to the 100-year, 24-hour inflow rate. In
addition, the top of the retention facility berm shall also be designed to have
two feet of freeboard above the 100-year, 24-hour inflow rate.
   (O)   Maintenance considerations. The stormwater drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows which can be used to completely drain
the pool for sediment removal. Pumping may be considered if drainage by gravity
is not feasible. Pre-sedimentation basins shall be included, where feasible,
for localizing sediment deposition and removal. Site access for heavy equipment
shall be provided.
(1993 Code, § 114.23) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.024 ACCOMMODATING FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM TRIBUTARY AREAS.
   Stormwater runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be considered
in the design of the property’s drainage system. Whenever practicable, flows
from upstream areas that are not to be detained should be routed around the
basin being provided for the site being developed.
   (A)   Upstream areas not meeting chapter requirements.
      (1)   When there are areas not meeting the storage and release rates of
this chapter, tributary to the applicant’s property, regionalized detention on
the applicant’s property may be explored by the applicant or the county. When
it is deemed beneficial by the county or the applicant to explore such a
design, the following steps shall be followed:
         (a)   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his or
her property using the release rates of §
114.023, the applicant’s property area, and the procedures described in §
114.022;
         (b)   Areas tributary to the applicant’s property, not meeting the
storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, shall be identified; and
         (c)   Using the areas determined above plus the applicant’s property
area, total storage needed for the combined properties shall be computed.
      (2)   Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined
property areas. Storage shall be computed as described in §
114.023. If tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable fully developed
land cover, based on local zoning, shall be used for the purposes of computing
storage.
      (3)   Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the county may
choose to pay for over-sizing the applicant’s detention basin to accommodate
the regional flows. The applicant’s responsibility will be limited to the
storage for his or her property as computed above. If regional storage is
selected by the county then the design produced in §
114.022 shall be implemented. If regional storage is rejected by the county,
the applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the applicant’s
basin whenever practicable. If the applicant must route upstream flows through
his or her basin and the upstream areas exceed one-square mile in size, the
applicant must meet the provision for on-stream basins.
   (B)   Upstream areas meeting chapter requirements. When there are areas
which meet the storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, tributary
to the applicant’s property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant’s detention basin if this is the only practicable alternative.
Storage needed for the applicant’s property shall be computed as described in
division (A) of this section. However, if the county decides to route tributary
area flows through an applicant’s basin, the final design stormwater releases
shall be based on the combined total of the applicant’s property plus tributary
areas. It must be shown that at no time will the release rate from the combined
property exceed the allowable release rate for applicant’s property alone.
(1993 Code, § 114.24) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.025 EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES.
   Where detention, retention or depressional storage areas are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in
these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a regular basis and
before project completion in order to maintain the design volume of the
facilities.
(1993 Code, § 114.25) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 114.040 FINDINGS.
   The county hereby finds that:
   (A)   The soil types found in the county are susceptible to erosion and if
left unprotected could cause severe loss of soil with resultant damage to
property;
   (B)   The topography of the county contains areas with steep slopes upon
which, if clearing of trees and/or inappropriate construction takes place,
could result in severe erosion and slope stability problems which could result
in damage to property;
   (C)   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain non-agricultural uses including, but not limited to,
the construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants,
the building of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainage ways, and the creation of recreational facilities;
   (D)   The washing, blowing and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof, by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
   (E)   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed out
fills and embankments;
   (F)   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, sinkholes, wetlands and reservoirs;
   (G)   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
   (H)   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety.
(1993 Code, § 114.35) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.041 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by development activities, including clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating, and filling of land, in the county. Measures taken to
control soil erosion and off-site sediment runoff shall be adequate to assure
that sediment is not transported from the site by a storm event of ten-year,
24-hour frequency or less. The following principles shall apply to all new
development or redevelopment activities within the county and to the
preparation of the submissions required under §
114.042 of this chapter.
   (A)   New development or redevelopment shall be related to the topography
and soils of the site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of
steep slopes greater than 33% where high cuts and fills may be required are to
be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours should be followed as
closely as possible.
   (B)   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, sinkholes and
wetlands are to be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings of
watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization measures.
   (C)   Special precautions shall be taken to prevent damages resultant from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, sinkhole or wetland. Preventive measures shall reflect the sensitivity of
these areas to erosion and sedimentation.
   (D)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   (E)   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures shall be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from run-off waters
from land undergoing development.
   (F)   The selection of erosion and sediment control measures shall be based
on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events likely to
contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs and benefits
involved.
   (G)   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance must be considered.
   (H)   Provision shall be made to accommodate the increased run-off caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on-site or
downstream.
   (I)   Permanent vegetation and structures shall be installed and functional
as soon as practical during development.
   (J)   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses shall be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   (K)   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall be
properly disposed of and shall be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   (L)   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment from
being tracked onto public or private roadways.
   (M)   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control practices shall be
maintained to function as intended until the contributing drainage area has
been permanently stabilized at which time they shall be removed.
   (O)   Water quality shall adhere to:
      (1)   Illinois Environmental Protection Act: 415 ILCS 5/11 and 5/12;
      (2)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulation: Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter 1, Pollution
Control Board, Part 302 Water Quality Standards; and
      (3)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Title 35,
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C, Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 304 Effluent Standard.
(1993 Code, § 114.36) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000; Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-
18-2008) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.042 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Each applicant shall submit the information depending on development size,
as regulated to ensure that the provisions of this chapter are met. The
submittal shall include sufficient information to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of the
development related to erosion both on-site and off-site, and the effectiveness
of the proposed erosion and sediment control plan in reducing sediment loss and
meet the provisions of §
114.002. The applicant shall certify on the drawing that all clearing, grading,
drainage and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance with the
erosion and sediment control plan. The following information shall be submitted
for both existing and proposed property conditions; new developments or
redevelopments meeting the requirements of §
114.003.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control plan requirements. Shall meet the
requirements of § 114.020(A) and (B) and §
114.001.
   (B)   Mapping and descriptions. The existing and proposed erosion and
sediment control features of the property and immediate vicinity including:
      (1)   As required in §
114.020(A);
      (2)   Location of the slope disturbance line;
      (3)   Location and description of the erosion and sediment control
measures to be employed during construction;
      (4)   For any structures proposed to be located on the slope side of the
slope disturbance line the map shall include the limits of disturbance
including tree removal, erosion and sediment control measures during
construction, cross section view of any proposed cut or fill, erosion and
sediment control measures during construction, details of method(s) proposed
for providing slope stability, permanent stormwater control measures and
permanent erosion and sediment control measures all being certified by a
registered professional engineer or a certified professional erosion control
specialist;
      (5)   The predominant soil types on the site, their location, and their
limitations for the proposed use as defined by the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources
Conservation Service;
      (6)   The proposed use of the site, including present and planned
development, areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation and filling;
proposed contours, finished grades and street profiles; the stormwater plan as
required in §§
114.020 through
114.025; kinds and locations of utilities, areas and acreages proposed to be
paved, sodded or seeded, vegetatively stabilized, or left undisturbed; and the
location of specimen trees over 18 inches in diameter and their type; and
      (7)   The erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter throughout all phases of
construction and those remaining permanently after completion of the
development of the site, including:
         (a)   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures, runoff control measures, including diversions,
waterways and outlets, and design specifics of sediment basins and traps
including outlet details;
         (b)   Location and description of all soil stabilization and erosion
control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures, and types of non-vegetative
stabilization measures;
         (c)   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off-site including construction entrance details, as appropriate;
         (d)   Description of dust and traffic control measures;
         (e)   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization
methods;
         (f)   Location of off-site fill or borrow volumes, locations and
methods of stabilization;
         (g)   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements and estimates of the cost of
maintenance; and
         (h)   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared area, and the sequence of
installation of temporary sediment control measures (including perimeter
controls), installation of stormwater drainage, paving streets and parking
areas, final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative cover, and
the removal of temporary measures. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to notify the Building and Zoning Administrator of any significant
changes which occur in the site development schedule after the initial erosion
and sediment control plan has been approved.
(1993 Code, § 114.37) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.043 DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The preparation of soil erosion and sediment control plans
shall follow the principles outlined in the Illinois Procedures and Standards
for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, excepting Chapter Six
published by the Urban Committee of the Association of Illinois Soil and Water
Conservation Districts. The design criteria, standards and methods shall be
prepared in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the standards
and specifications contained in Illinois Urban Manual prepared for the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency by the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation
Service, which standards and methods are hereby incorporated into this chapter
by reference. In the event of conflict between the provisions of said manuals
and of this chapter, this chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control design requirements. New developments or
redevelopments shall comply with §
114.042 and meet the following.
      (1)   Control measures shall be constructed to control runoff from the
property to such an extent possible that sediment is retained on-site.
      (2)   Temporary on-site control measures required shall be constructed
and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping, excavating or
fill activities on the site.
      (3)   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with permanent measures within
seven calendar days following the end of active disturbance, or re-disturbance
consistent with the following criteria:
         (a)   Appropriate permanent stabilization measures shall include
seeding, mulching, sodding, with non-vegetative measures as a last resort; and
         (b)   Areas having slopes greater than 33% shall be stabilized with
sod, mat or blanket in combination with seeding or equivalent.
      (4)   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
must be maintained and repaired as needed to assure effective performance of
their intended function.
      (5)   All temporary erosion and sediment control measures shall be
disposed in a proper manner within 30 days after final site stabilization is
achieved with permanent soil stabilization measures. Trapped sediment and other
disturbed soils resulting from the disposition of temporary measures shall be
permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion and sedimentation.
      (6)   Site development requirements. On-site sediment control measures,
as specified by the following criteria, shall be constructed as specified in
the referenced handbooks, and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site.
         (a)   For new developments or redevelopments less than one acre, or
for a tract of land where a single-family dwelling is being erected and less
than 10,000 square feet of impervious surface is being developed, filter
barriers (including filter fences, straw bales or equivalent control measures)
shall be constructed to control all on-site runoff. Vegetated filter strips,
with a minimum width of 25 feet, may be used as an alternative only where
runoff in sheet flow is expected.
         (b)   For new developments or redevelopments more than one acre but
less than five acres, a sediment trap designed in accordance with the IEPA
Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion or equivalent control measure
shall be constructed at the downslope point of the disturbed area.
         (c)   For new developments or redevelopments greater than five acres,
a sediment basin or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at the
downslope point of the disturbed area.
         (d)   Sediment basin and sediment trap designs shall provide for both
“dry” detention and “wet” detention sediment storage. The detention storage
shall be composed of equal volumes of “wet” detention storage and “dry”
detention storage and each shall be sized as regulated in §§
114.020 through
114.025. The release rate of the basin shall be that rate as regulated in §§
114.020 through
114.025. The elevation of the outlet structure shall be placed such that it
only drains the dry detention storage.
         (e)   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated
sediment load generated from the site over the duration of the construction
period with a minimum storage equivalent to the volume or sediment generated in
one year. For construction periods exceeding one year, the one-year sediment
load and a sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
         (f)   The alteration of sinkholes by filling, grading or excavation is
prohibited, including an area within 25 feet from the rim.
         (g)   To the extent possible or as otherwise regulated in this chapter
all desirable trees eight inches in diameter and larger shall be protected for
their present and future value for erosion protection and other environmental
benefits. Trees that have been selected for preservation shall be marked prior
to the beginning of any clearing, grading, stripping, excavation or filling of
the site. A no construction zone shall be established and marked at the
perimeter of the drip line of each tree which is to be preserved.
      (7)   Stormwater conveyance channels, including ditches, swales, and
diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed as regulated in §§
114.020 through
114.025. All constructed or modified channels shall be stabilized within 48
hours, consistent with the standards as required in the IEPA Erosion Control
Manual Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control.
      (8)   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be avoided,
where possible, or as regulated in §§
114.020 through
114.025. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following requirements
shall be met.
         (a)   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to
the maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of non-erosive material, such as
riprap or gravel.
         (b)   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be
kept to a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be
stabilized within 48 hours after channel disturbance is completed, interrupted
or stopped.
      (9)   Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment
traps or filter barriers meeting accepted design standards and specifications.
      (10)   Soil storage piles containing more than ten cubic yards of
material shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than 25
feet to a roadway, drainage channel or sinkhole. Filter barriers, including
straw bales, filter fence or equivalent, shall be installed immediately on the
downslope side of the piles.
      (11)   If de-watering devices are used, discharge locations shall be
protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent and shall not be
deposited into a sinkhole.
      (12)   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads,
access drives and parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent
sediment from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment
reaching a public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or street
cleaning (not flushing) before the end of each workday and transported to a
controlled sediment disposal area.
(1993 Code, § 114.38) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.044 MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES.
   All soil erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be maintained periodically by the applicant
or subsequent land owner during the period of land disturbance and development
of the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure adequate performance.
(1993 Code, § 114.39) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.045 CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE SITES.
   All waste materials generated during construction activities must be
properly disposed. Examples of construction site waste may consist of, but not
be limited to, all building materials, raised structure debris, concrete
(including concrete truck wash), asphalt, brick, excess soil, rebar, erosion
and sediment control materials, cleared vegetation, chemicals, temporary
bathroom facilities and all other construction site wastes.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-18-2008)
§ 114.046 CONSTRUCTION SITE STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.
   (A)   Activities that are applicable to this chapter, per §
114.003, must provide a construction site stormwater pollution prevention plan
(CSSPPP).
   (B)   The construction site stormwater pollution prevention plan may be a
full sized plan sheet with necessary notes for requirements or may be a
narrative explaining construction site operating procedures to minimize or
eliminate stormwater pollution as a result of construction activities.
   (C)   The items covered in an approvable CSSPPP are dependent on the
activities and the materials required on-site to complete the project.
Therefore, the detail of the plan may be more or less depending on-site
activities planned.
   (D)   Standard items included in a CSSPPP are, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Purpose;
      (2)   Construction site description;
      (3)   Activities/materials to be addressed in the CSSPPP;
      (4)   Construction site operating procedures;
      (5)   Activities/materials monitoring and maintenance; and
      (6)   Emergency and spill procedures.
   (E)   Should construction site activities/materials change during
construction, the CSSPPP must reflect the changes. Therefore, the plan must be
kept on-site at all times and be altered as necessary with the approval of the
Inspector. Should major changes be warranted, a revised plan must be submitted
for review and approval.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-18-2008)
LONG TERM MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY
§ 114.060 LONG TERM MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   Maintenance of stormwater drainage, and erosion and sediment control
facilities located on private property shall be the responsibility of the owner
of that property. Before an appropriate permit is obtained from the county, the
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the county of guaranteeing
that the applicant and all future owners of the property will maintain its
stormwater drainage and erosion and sediment control system. Such agreement
shall be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of the county. The maintenance
agreement shall include a schedule for regular maintenance of each aspect of
the property’s stormwater drainage and erosion and sediment control system and
shall provide for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel
of the county. The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate that if the
appropriate personnel of the county notify the property owner in writing of
maintenance problems which require correction, the property owner shall begin
such corrections within 24 hours and shall not extend beyond seven calendar
days of such notification. If the corrections are not made within this time
period, the county may have the necessary work completed and assess the cost to
the property owner. The county has the option of requiring a bond to be filed
by the property owner for maintenance of the stormwater drainage and erosion
and sediment control system.
(1993 Code, § 114.50) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
INSPECTIONS
§ 114.075 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall make inspections as
hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the stormwater drainage or erosion and sedimentation control plan as approved.
Plans for grading, stripping, excavating and filling work bearing the stamp of
approval of the Building and Zoning Administrator shall be maintained at the
site during progress of the work. In order to obtain inspections and to ensure
compliance with this chapter, the permittee shall notify the Building and
Zoning Administrator within two working days of the completion of the
construction stages specified below:
      (1)   Upon completion of installation of the stormwater drainage and
erosion and sediment control measures (including perimeter controls and
diversions), prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading;
      (2)   After stripping and clearing;
      (3)   After rough grading;
      (4)   After final grading;
      (5)   After seeding and landscaping deadlines; and
      (6)   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
   (B)   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in
phases or areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the
completion of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an
inspection is not made and notification of the results given within five
working days after notice is received by the county from the permittee, the
permittee may continue work at his or her own risk, without presuming
acceptance by the county. Notification of the results of the inspection shall
be given in writing at the site.
   (C)   Bi-weekly inspection reports shall be submitted to the county for all
development permits. Except for permits involving the development of one
single-family dwelling, the bi-weekly reports must be certified by a registered
professional engineer, describing the current status of construction for
proposed drainage and detention system, including whether drainage construction
and erosion control has been installed in accordance with construction plans.
Report shall define whether maintenance has been provided as needed for the
erosion control.
(1993 Code, § 114.60) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.076 SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the Building
and Zoning Administrator determines by inspection that the nature of the site
is such that further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil
any property, public way, stream, lake, wetland or drainage structure, the
Building and Zoning Administrator may require, as a condition of allowing the
work to be done, that such reasonable special precautions to be taken as is
considered advisable to avoid the likelihood of such peril. “Special
precautions” may include, but shall not be limited to, a more level exposed
slope, construction of additional drainage facilities, berms, terracing,
compaction or cribbing, installation of plant materials for erosion control,
and recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or engineering geologist
which may be made requirements for further work.
   (B)   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading on
any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take such other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the Building and Zoning
Administrator may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion
or may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to
ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the advent of
seasonal rains.
(1993 Code, § 114.61) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.077 AMENDMENT OF PLANS.
   Major amendments to stormwater drainage and detention or erosion and
sediment control plans shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning
Administrator and shall be processed and approved or disapproved in the same
manner as the original plans. Field modification of a minor nature may be
authorized by the Building and Zoning Administrator by written authorization to
the permittee.
(1993 Code, § 114.62) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
PERMITTING
§ 114.090 APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Application for a development permit shall be made by the owner of the
property or his or her authorized agent to the Building and Zoning
Administrator on a form furnished for that purpose. Each application shall bear
the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site, the
contractor(s) and any consulting firm retained by the applicant together with
the name of the applicant’s principal contact at such firm, and shall be
accompanied by a filing fee of $200 for any permit subject to the requirements
of §§
114.020 through
114.025. No permit fee is assessed for those developments where only the
requirements of §§
114.040 through
114.044 apply. Each application shall include certification that any land
clearing, construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with the plans approved upon issuance of the permit.
(1993 Code, § 114.70) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.091 BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant for a development permit may be required to file with the
county, a faithful performance bond or bonds, letter of credit, or other
improvement security satisfactory to the County State’s Attorney in an amount
deemed sufficient by the Building and Zoning Administrator to cover all costs
of improvements, landscaping, maintenance of improvements and landscaping, and
soil erosion and sediment control measures for such period as specified by the
county, and engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure or
repair of improvements installed on the site.
(1993 Code, § 114.71) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.092 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Each application for a development permit shall be reviewed and acted upon
according to the following procedures.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Administrator will review each application for
a development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Administrator may also refer any application to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District, a consulting engineer retained by the county,
and/or any other local government or public agency within whose jurisdiction
the site is located for review and comment. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall in writing:
      (1)   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter, and issue the permit;
      (2)   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
      (3)   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies and
the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   No development permit shall be issued for an intended development site
unless:
      (1)   The development, including but not limited to, subdivision or
planned unit development, has been approved by the county where applicable;
      (2)   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the county;
      (3)   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the county for the area in which the
site is situated; and
      (4)   All relevant federal and state permits have been received for the
portion of the site subject to soil disturbance as noted in §
114.002.
   (C)   Failure of the Building and Zoning Administrator to act on an original
or revised application within 30 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant
to proceed in accordance with the plans as filed and in compliance with the
regulations contained herein, unless such time is extended by agreement between
the Building and Zoning Administrator and the applicant. Pending preparation
and approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to
proceed in accordance with conditions established by the Building and Zoning
Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 114.72) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.093 FINAL CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Prior to final approval by the county, a registered professional
engineer shall certify that detention basin has been constructed in accordance
with construction plans and proposed volume has been provided.
   (B)   An “as-built” survey of the detention basin, prepared by a licensed
surveyor, shall be included with the certification for approval.
(1993 Code, § 114.73) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.094 EXPIRATION OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Every development permit shall expire and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit has not been commenced within 180 days, or if not
completed by a date which shall be specified in the permit; except that the
Building and Zoning Administrator may, if the permittee presents satisfactory
evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being commenced or
completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of
time if written application is made before the expiration date of the permit.
The Building and Zoning Administrator may require modification of the erosion
control plan to prevent any increase in erosion or off-site sediment runoff
resulting from any extension.
(1993 Code, § 114.74) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
§ 114.095 APPEALS.
   The applicant, or any person or agency which received notice of the filing
of the application, may appeal the decision of the Building and Zoning
Administrator to the Board of Appeals. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Board of
Appeals shall schedule and hold a public hearing, after giving 15 days notice
thereof. The Board shall render a decision within 30 days after the hearing.
Factors to be considered on review shall include, but need not be limited to,
the effects of the proposed development activities on the surface water flow to
tributary and downstream lands, any comprehensive watershed management plans,
or the use of any retention facilities; possible saturation of fill and
unsupported cuts by water, both natural and domestic; runoff surface waters
that produce erosion and silting of drainageways; nature and type of soil or
rock which when disturbed by the proposed development activities may create
earth movement and produce slopes that cannot be landscaped; and excessive and
unnecessary scarring of the natural landscape through grading or removal of
vegetation.
(1993 Code, § 114.75) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 114.110 STOP WORK ORDER; REVOCATION OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   In the event any person holding a development permit pursuant to this
chapter violates the terms of the permit, or carries on-site development in
such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare,
environment or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the
development site or so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the Building and
Zoning Administrator may suspend or revoke the development permit.
      (1)   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work order issued
by the Building and Zoning Administrator and delivered to the permittee or his
or her agent or the person performing the work. The stop work order shall be
effective immediately, shall state the specific violations cited, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed. A stop work order shall
remain in effect until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of
Appeals at which time the conditions of §
114.094 can be met.
      (2)   No development permit shall be revoked until a hearing is held by
the Board of Appeals. Written notice of such hearing shall be served on the
permittee, either personally or by registered mail, and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or
revocation, in clear and concise language; and
         (b)   The time when and place where such hearing will be held.
   (B)   Such notice shall be served on the permittee at least five days prior
to the date set for the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given
an opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present evidence on his
or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Appeals shall
determine whether the permit shall be revoked.
(1993 Code, § 114.80) (Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000)
FILLING OF PROPERTY
§ 114.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRAIN. Includes ditch and means any watercourse or conduit, whether open,
covered or enclosed, natural or artificial, or partly natural and partly
artificial, by which waters coming or falling upon lands or carried away.
   FILL OF LANDS.
      (1)   CLEAN FILL. Those materials which are made up of either insitu
(site derived) soils or transported soils which may be properly placed in lifts
to achieve a level of compaction required for the proper support of
foundations.
      (2)   FILL. As defined in the county zoning ordinance, is any act by
which soil, sand, gravel, rock or any other material(s) is deposited, or placed
by humans or machine to another location, and shall include the conditions
resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 114.126 NATURAL DRAINAGE.
   Land may be drained in the general course of drainage by either opened or
covered drains.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 114.127 LANDOWNER.
   (A)   The landowner shall not willfully and intentionally interfere with any
ditches or natural drains which cross his or her lands in such manner that such
ditches or natural drains shall fill or become obstructed with any matter which
shall materially impede or interfere with the flow of water.
   (B)   If the land owner violates the provisions of this section he or she
commits a petty offense.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.128 PENALTY FOR OBSTRUCTING OR INJURING DRAIN.
   Whoever willfully or negligently obstructs, injures, cuts, breeches or
destroys a private, mutual or district drain or drainage structure, levee or
pumping plant is liable for the cost of repairing or reconstructing the same
and for any damage to lands, crops or other property that may have resulted
therefrom.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.129 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever any party desires to deposit fill in any amount, except any
fill used for topsoil dressing on any lands in the county’s jurisdictional
boundaries, such party shall first obtain a fill permit from the county.
   (B)   A permit shall not be required for fill deposited at a licensed
landfill site or for any lands for which a valid building permit has been
issued. Filling required as part of the process of construction are allowed so
long as appropriate building permits have been obtained and the site plan is
approved and adhered to. TOPSOIL DRESSING is defined as an application of
topsoil to existing turf. Permits are required in all zoning classifications in
the county.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 114.130 SOIL EROSION CONTROL.
   Soil erosion control devices must be installed immediately upon the exposure
of any raw soil/fill on any property in accordance to IEPA regulations. Soil
erosion control devices must be maintained on a regular basis.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.131 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Building and Zoning Administrator or his or her designee, shall
provide application forms for fill permits, which shall show the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Place where fill is to be deposited and the owner thereof;
      (3)   Existing and proposed elevation of area to be filled at a distance
of not more than 25-foot intervals;
      (4)   Existing elevation of adjacent lands within 50 feet of land to be
filled at distance of not more than 25-foot intervals;
      (5)   A sketch showing the above information and the route to be traveled
to the fill site;
      (6)   Approximate quantity of fill;
      (7)   Time required for filling;
      (8)   Party responsible for leveling/ seeding/sodding of area; and
      (9)   Method of erosion control during filling.
   (B)   Neighboring property owners to the north, south, east and west of the
subject property will be notified of the fill permit.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.132 NO EXCESS GRADING.
   Large scale grading for the purpose of creating lots on excessive slopes
shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009) Penalty, see §
114.999
§ 114.133 GRADING AT PROPERTY LINE.
   In order to protect adjacent property owners from possible damage due to
changes in existing grades, there shall be a five-foot grassy buffer
surrounding the fill area including the front, rear and side yards. No change
in the existing topography within 25 feet of the property line shall result in
the slope to a ratio greater than five horizontal to one vertical. In no case
shall any slope exceed the normal angle of slippage of the soil involved and no
fill shall be placed in the five-foot grassy buffer area. The total elevation
change shall not exceed the total elevation of the maximum slope ratio. The
exception to this shall be where retaining walls are built with the written
consent of the abutting property owner and with the approval of the Planning
Commission and County Board.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 114.134 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   If the Building and Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, is
satisfied that the issuance of a fill permit is not in the best interest of the
owners of adjacent lands, or of the county, no permit shall be issued. Staff
will review the project prior to the issuance of the permit and upon completion
of all fill work will review the project and issue a letter of compliance.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 114.135 FEE.
   The Building and Zoning Department shall collect a $75 flat fee prior to the
issuance of the fill permit.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-5-2024)
§ 114.136 LEVELING OF FILL.
   All fill deposited pursuant to a fill permit shall be leveled within 30 days
of the last deposit.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 114.137 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Inspector and county officials shall enforce the regulations of
this chapter and all other laws relating to the filling of property. All
permits are valid for one year. If work under any fill permit has not been
completed within 12 months the applicant must re-apply. The county reserves the
right to review the new application with consideration to the regulatory
environment and circumstances, which may have evolved over the elapsed time
period.
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 114.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or
maintain any grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done,
contrary to or in violation of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and each day during which any violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate
offense. Upon conviction of any such violation, such person, partnership or
corporation shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 for each offense.
In addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any person,
partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to restore the site to the condition existing prior
to commission of the violation, or to bear the expense of such restoration.
(1993 Code, § 114.99)
   (B)   Fill. No person shall deposit any fill in the county without a valid
fill permit. Any person who violates, disobeys, neglects, omits or refuses to
comply with §§
114.125 through
114.137 shall forfeit not less than $50 nor more than $1,000 per day for each
offense, together with the costs of prosecution, and in default of payment of
such forfeiture and costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 8-16-2000; Ord. 2009-03, passed 3-18-2009)
CHAPTER 115: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
115.01   Purpose and scope
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Permit required; applications and fees
   
115.04   Action on permit applications
   
115.05   Effect of permit
   
115.06   Revised permit drawings
   
115.07   Insurance
   
115.08   Indemnification
   
115.09   Security
   
115.10   Permit suspension and revocation
   
115.11   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
115.12   General construction standards
   
115.13   Traffic control
   
115.14   Location of facilities
   
115.15   Construction methods and materials
   
115.16   Vegetation control
   
115.17   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
115.18   Clean-up and restoration
   
115.19   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
115.20   Variances
   
115.21   Enforcement
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the county’s
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the county
rights-of-way and the county as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter the county intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the county and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
county’s utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the county’s residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-
way within the jurisdiction of the county. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The county, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the county
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the county enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the county may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the county, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the county and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The county shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions
and requirements expressed in this chapter when the county so determines.
Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the county to
regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed to it in 92 Ill.
Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The county code of the County of Madison, Illinois.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COUNTY. The County of Madison, Illinois.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The County Engineer or his or her designee.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. An Illinois state-licensed professional engineer in good standing.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within rights-of-way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the county.
   FHWA. Federal Highway Administration.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
County Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
115.03 and
115.04 of this chapter.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the county.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
      (1)   Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, including
utility easements, in which the county has the right and authority to
authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the county.
      (2)   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any real or
personal county property that is not specifically described in the division (1)
above and shall not include county buildings, fixtures and other structures or
improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to §
115.09.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, or cable
or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to
the county through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in making sales
of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
   WRITTEN NOTICE. See NOTICE.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter) any facility
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any county right-of-way
which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the County Engineer and obtaining a
permit from the county therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the county and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the county may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as “proprietary” or
“confidential”, as and to the extent permitted by the Illinois Freedom of
Information Act, by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
The county shall take reasonable care to protect said information, though will
not be held liable to the applicant or any other party for any damages of any
nature whatsoever arising from its release. The county makes no representation,
warranty, or guaranty that the information will remain confidential under the
FOIA, and the county makes not promise or commitment that it will expend legal
fees or other resources associated with a court action or other administrative
proceeding that may arise out of a FOIA request denial for such information, or
otherwise.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility’s name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   The names, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of all on-site
emergency contacts for the duration of the proposed work;
      (5)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed. The
County Engineer may require the certification of an engineer that such
drawings, plans and specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and
regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
115.07 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
115.09 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
115.20); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
county.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements, for specific types of
utilities. In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the
permit application shall include the following items, as applicable to the
specific utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any certificate of public
convenience and necessity or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, has been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant’s duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the county within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment, excepting on-site emergency contacts, which
shall be updated immediately.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee not to exceed $1,000. The fee will be determined by the
County Engineer and will be based on the anticipated administrative costs to
the county. No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity
utility that is paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee
pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   County review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the County Engineer
within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to
the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
the County Engineer shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. If the County Engineer is satisfied that the proposed work
conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes,
laws, rules and regulations, the County Engineer shall issue a permit therefor
as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant
to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the County Engineer, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional county review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4, a
telecommunications retailer shall notify the county that it intends to commence
work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the county not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work
requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of
work requiring excavation. The County Engineer shall specify the portion of the
right-of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the County Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either:
         (a)   Ten days after service of notice to the county by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or
         (b)   Twenty-five days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the county, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
115.03 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
county an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional county review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007, being 220 ILCS 5/2-100 et seq., shall be
deemed granted 45 days after submission to the county, unless otherwise acted
upon by the county, provided the holder has complied with applicable county
codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.05 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted: no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the county authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on county rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting. The County Engineer may require a pre-
construction meeting. The permittee shall be notified of this requirement at
the time the permit is issued. No construction shall begin pursuant to a permit
issued under this chapter until after the conclusion of the pre-construction
meeting.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
county does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the county and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.06 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the county within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
115.20 of this chapter. If the county denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.07 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the county, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
“X,” “C” and “U” coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker’s compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer’s liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the county within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the county.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement:
      “It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after receipt by the
county, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the county of such intent to cancel or not to
renew. All coverage afforded to the additional insured(s) under this policy
shall be on a primary basis. If additional insured(s)’s other insurance is
applicable to the loss, such insurance will be on an excess basis. Waiver of
subrogation in favor of the additional insured(s) applies to all liability
policies and workers compensation.”
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the county of said notice, and in
no event later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the county evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C)
and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to
the county evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under division
(A) of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a “private self-
insurer” under the Workers Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility’s liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the county and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. (All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated “A-” or better and of a class
size “X” or higher by A.M. Best Company.) Each utility shall expressly grant
permission and consent for the county to directly inquire with the utility’s
insurer, or, if self-insured, the utility’s staff for self-insurance, to
determine the existence of coverage, the coverage terms, the amount of
coverage, and the identity of additional named insured(s), along with any other
provision that may relate to the county or matters related to this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.08 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the county and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the utility's (or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents,
contractors or subcontractors) breach of this chapter, the negligent, careless
or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or
its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in
the construction of facilities or occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in
providing or offering service over the facilities, whether such acts or
omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a
franchise, license or similar agreement; provided, however, that the utility’s
indemnity obligations hereunder shall not apply to the extent of any injuries,
claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses arising out of or
resulting from the sole negligence, misconduct or breach of this chapter by the
county, its officials, officers, employees, agents or representatives.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.09 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee’s sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the county occasioned
by the permittee’s failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the county issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the county may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the county must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee’s failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the county from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the county in
the form, at the permittee’s election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the county, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the county. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant
to this division (B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
county and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the county of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the county and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the County Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the county estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the county, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the County Engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The county, upon 14 days’ advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the county for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the county for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the county has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the county
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
county that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the permittee
shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division (C) of this
section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the county,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the county, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the county for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the county to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the county as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the county with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the county, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the county may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the county
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.10 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   County right to revoke permit. The county may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee’s physical presence or presence of permittee’s facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee’s failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The county shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the county, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the county with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the county, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the county within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the county providing written proof of such
removal to the county within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The county may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the county may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of
this section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) of this section, the county or its designee may, at the option of the
county:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days’ notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days’ notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the county.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the county for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.11 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER’S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the county no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the county’s right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.12 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Illinois Highway Standards for Traffic Control; and
      (6)   Illinois Supplement to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices;
   (B)   Interpretation of county standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the County Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the County Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.13 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The county’s minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in the FHWA Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
IDOT’s Illinois Supplement to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
applicable Illinois Highway Standards for Traffic Control, and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
fiaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility’s workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
115.19 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the  circumstances. All work shall be done in a manner that impacts
adjoining property owners as minimally and as quickly as possible.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility’s attention by the county.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.14 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division
(A).
      (1)   No interference with county facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the County Engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the county’s
utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the county’s utility facilities. Any of the county’s
utility facilities shall be located by a county qualified contractor hired by
the permittee at the permittee’s expense. Any damage to the county’s utility
facilities caused by the permittee shall be deemed an emergency and shall be
repaired subject to §
115.19 to same or better condition at the permittee’s expense.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of county highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC’s
rules entitled, Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines (83 Ill.
Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located as close to the right-of-way line of the
highway as possible and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility’s foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The county may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identity the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations, (49 C.F.R. § 192.707).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The county
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The county may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The county may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The county may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.15 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the County
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that
it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon
it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the county to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the County Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection, though may not obstruct drainage. Excavated material shall not be
allowed to remain on the paved portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width
does not allow for windrowing excavated material off the paved portion of the
roadway, excavated material shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the county to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT’s Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the County Engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any
pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and
properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk,
curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the County Engineer.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Open cutting of road surfaces and non-aggregate
entrances is prohibited except as allowed by an approved variance request. If
permitted, the highway shall be closed to traffic. Entrance impediments due to
open cutting shall conform to §
115.13. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4) is
permitted under §
115.20, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the County Engineer;
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the county;
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth; and
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
county.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or county approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the county. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Communication, cable, fiber or similar  18 to 30 inches (as determined by
service lines                           county)
Electric lines                          30 inches (0.8 m)
Gas or petroleum products               30 inches (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within county rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled “Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines” and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility. Guy guards shall be replaced at the utility’s expense
at the County Engineer’s request.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
boring is implemented when crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of “moles,” “whip
augers” or other approved method winch compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the county. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of “moles,” “whip augers” or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a county
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192,
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 C.F.R. part 192), IDOT’s Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the County Engineer. With the approval of the
County Engineer, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of
vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT’s Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the County Engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross aims or
other materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property, and
such storage shall be at permittee’s/utility’s risk. If material is to be
stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from the county and the
county assumes no responsibility in the case of theft, damage, or other
situations causing loss to permittee/utility or any other third party, and
permittee/utility shall indemnify and hold harmless county for any such losses.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
county shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the county, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the County Engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the county, the hours of construction
shall be during daylight hours sufficient not to warrant nighttime traffic
control, or those set forth in this
Chapter 115 of this code.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the county shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The county will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
county or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.)
   (F)   Construction observation. The County Engineer may require that some or
all work performed in the right-of-way by utilities be completed only while
under the observation of a county representative. Any work completed prior to
observation, when the County Engineer has required observation, may be required
to be removed and completed again under observation. The county shall incur no
expenses for the observation, delays in progress due to observation, or work
required to comply with the permit requirements. Contractor shall reimburse to
the county all expenses incurred due to observation.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.16 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities, compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the county as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required.
      (1)   Generally. Tree trimming that is done by any other utility with
facilities in the right-of-way and that is not performed pursuant to applicable
state laws and regulations specifically governing same, shall not be considered
a normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
      (2)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The county may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following division (D)(2), no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the county for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the County Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.17 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the county, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any
county improvement in or upon, or the operations of the county in or upon, the
rights-of-way. No extension of time shall be made unless requested in writing
and approved in writing by the County Engineer.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the county, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee’s license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee’s license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The county retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the county, as the county may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the county shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior to
cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the county, the utility shall notify the county within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the county may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the County Engineer determines
that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and
welfare. In the event that the county does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
county, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person. in
the event the county reasonably suspects a utility has abandoned a facility,
the county may provide a written notice of suspected abandonment to the utility
at the last known address of the utility. If the utility fails to respond in
writing confirming the facility has not been abandoned, then the facility will
not be deemed abandoned. Alternatively, if the utility confirms that the
facility is abandoned, then the county’s remedies and options in this division
as to abandoned facilities shall apply.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.18 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the county. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the County Engineer. Such cleanup and
repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the County
Engineer for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.19 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the county and at the utility’s expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
County Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing
him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling
public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature
of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
county police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the county a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.20 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the County Engineer
as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision
of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a
variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The County Engineer shall decide whether
a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The County Engineer may authorize
a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the County Engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the County
Engineer under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the County Board. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to
the County Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The County Board shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the Board’s next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven days after the filing of the appeal. The County Board shall timely decide
the appeal.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013; Ord. 2024-04, passed 5-15-2024)
§ 115.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the County Board may have for enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There may be times when the county
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
county’s costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the county. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 3-20-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
III.   UTILITY LINES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
81-8          9-16-1981   Nonexclusive franchise granted for a period of 15
                          years to Southwestern Electric Cable TV.
                          Authorization of the transfer of the grandfather
82-11         1-20-1982   franchise from Jones Inter-Cable CATV Fund V to TCI
                          Growth, Incorporated.
                          Cable television franchise granted to Dowden
84-3          4-18-1984   Communications, Incorporated, for a period of ten
                          years.
84-9          8-15-1984   Cable television franchise granted to South-Western
                          Cable T.V., Limited for a period of ten years.
                          Amending Ordinance 84-3 by changing the name of
85-2          3-20-1985   Dowden Communications, Incorporated to Dowden
                          Communications of Illinois, Incorporated.
                          Cable television franchise granted to Madison
89-11         6-21-1989   Communication Company for the unincorporated areas of
                          the county, limited for a period of ten years.
                          Granting to Triax Midwest Associates, L.P. the right
                          to erect, maintain and operate transmission and
                          distribution facilities and additions thereto in,
                          under, over, along, across and upon the streets,
94-02         3-16-1994   lanes, avenues, alleys, bridges, easements and other
                          public places in the unincorporated areas of the
                          county for the purpose of transmitting and
                          distributing television impulses and television
                          energy by cable for sale to the inhabitants of said
                          county.
                          Extending the term of a non-exclusive cable
95-07         11-15-1995  television franchise to Cencom Cable Income Partners,
                          L.P.
                          Consenting to the transfer of a non-exclusive cable
96-01         2-21-1996   television franchise from Cencom Cable Income
                          Partners, L.P. to Charter Communications
                          Entertainment I, L.P.
                          Extending the term of a non-exclusive cable
96-06         6-19-1996   television franchise to Charter Communications
                          Entertainment I, L.P.
                          Extending the term of a non-exclusive cable
96-11         9-18-1996   television franchise to Charter Communications
                          Entertainment I, L.P.
                          Extending the term of a non-exclusive cable
96-13         11-20-1996  television franchise to Charter Communications
                          Entertainment I, L.P.
96-15         12-18-1996  Renewing a non-exclusive cable television franchise
                          with Charter Communications Entertainment I, L.P.
                          Approving transfer of control of the franchisee and
98-15         11-18-1998  conversion of the franchise to a limited liability
                          company.
99-13         9-15-1999   Renewing a non-exclusive cable television franchise
                          pursuant to the Cable Communications Regulatory Code.
                          Approving the transfer of the cable television
Res. 99-14    9-15-1999   franchise from Triax Midwest Associates, L.P. to
                          Mediacom LLC.
                          Granting franchise to Charter Communications
2014-13       11-19-2014  Entertainment I, LLC to erect, maintain, and operate
                          a cable system.
                         
 
TABLE II: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
87-8          10-21-1987  Authorizing the transfer of the Nike base
                          administrative site to the village.
95-03         6-21-1995   Authorizing the transfer of Parcel No. 104 to the
                          Metro-East Transit District.
                          Authorizing the transfer of Parcel No.18-1-14-28-00-
96-14         11-20-1996  000-011 once used as a sewage treatment lagoon to
                          Chouteau Township.
                          Intergovernmental agreement authorizing the transfer
-             4-16-2012   of property at 33 South Main Street, Edwardsville, IL
                          between Madison County and Edwardsville, Illinois
                         
 
TABLE III: UTILITY LINES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             12-20-1950  Amending resolution; Village of Livingston; state aid
                          routes.
-             1950-1951   Phillips Pipe Line (formerly Illana Co.). Re: Pipe
                          Line in Madison County.
-             2-19-1952   City of Edwardsville; Poag-Wanda Road.
-             3- -1952    Ohio Oil Co.; pipe line under state aid routes in
                          Madison County.
-             9-9-1952    City of Wood River; 20 years, sewer lines along Old
                          St. Louis Road in Madison County.
-             3-18-1953   S.G. Roustio; county road north of Troy.
-             - -1954     City of Highland; power transmission lines - St. Rose
                          Road, 20 years.
-             4- -1954    Village of Bethalto; 20 years.
-             7- -1954    Water connections Ninth St. Road; Wood River.
-             9-14-1954   Alton Water Co.; 20 years.
-             7- -1955    Illinois Power Co.; gas lines; state aid route 43.
-             7-27-1955   Village of Alhambra; state aid route 3-B.
-             1-18-1956   Union Electric; gas mains.
-             4-25-1956   Village of Worden; state aid route 14, sec. 34-6-7.
-             3-20-1957   Illinois Power Co.; gas and power transmission lines
                          state aid routes in Madison County.
-             10-16-1957  American Telephone and Telegraph; communication
                          lines.
-             3-19-1958   Illinois Bell Telephone Co.; communication lines.
-             6-9-1958    Ohio Oil Co.; pipe lines; Chouteau-Wood River and
                          Omphghent.
-             10-15-1958  Corps of engineers; electric power lines, 20 years;
                          C.H. 3-B.
-             11-19-1958  Madison Telephone Co.; 20 years state aid routes 3-A,
                          3-B, 3-C, and C.H. 14.
-             7-15-1959   Corps of engineers; 20 years; 3-B.
-             8-19-1959   Union Electric; electric power lines along county
                          highways in Madison County (20 years).
-             1-13-1960   General Telephone Co.; 20 years; all county highways.
-             5-18-1960   Amending resolution of 11-19-58 to include C.H. 3.
-             7-13-1960   Edgar Borst; C.H. 21 water line.
-             12-14-1960  Mississippi River Transmission Corp., 4 inch gas
                          line.
-             7-19-1961   Sohio pipe line; 20 years; all county highways in
                          Madison County.
-             2-14-1962   Shell Oil Co.; pipe lines along county highways.
-             6-11-1962   Godfrey Twp. Utility Board, 20 years, C.H. 4 and 12-
                          A (sanitary sewer).
-             4-24-1963   Mississippi River Transmission Corp., amending
                          resolution of 12-14-60 to include C.H. 8-A.
-             4-24-1963   Illinois Power Co.; electric transmission lines
                          (easement connecting Route 140 and E. Alton).
-             7-17-1963   Godfrey Twp. Utility Board, 20 years, C.H. 12-
                          A Pearl.
-             8-14-1963   Phillips Pipe Line Co.; pipe lines, all county
                          highways in Madison County.
-             10-17-1963  Godfrey Twp. Utility Board, 20 years, Alby.
-             11-19-1963  City of Highland; electric power transmission lines
                          county highway 18 (20 years).
                          Alhambra; Grantfork Telephone Co.; 20 years; aerial
-             11-19-1963  and underground telephone lines, all county highways
                          in Madison County.
-             4-20-1964   City of Alton, 20 years, C.H. 39.
-             7- -1964    Staunton Telephone Co.; aerial and underground lines;
                          20 years; C.H. 3.
-             2-16-1966   S.I.U.; C.H. 19 and 48.
-             7-13-1966   City of Highland; Highland; St. Rose Road.
-             9-13-1966   Central water system; Village of Pierron; C.H. 18 to
                          State Hwy. 40.
-             11-22-1967  Alton Water Co.; amending resolution to include C.H.
                          17 Seminary.
-             12-20-1967  Maurice Dorsey; 20 years; sec. 32-6-8.
-             3-20-1968   Fosterburg Water District; 20 years.
                          Shell Oil Co.; renewal of resolution dated 2-14-1962
-             3-20-1968   permit to lay line adjacent to the above mentioned
                          lines.
                          Amending resolution of 10-16-63 (which is missing
-             6-24-1968   from file) C.H. 58 and 43; to include road from Ill.
                          157 at Peters Station to Glen Carbon and C.H. 43
                          being road from Glen Carbon to 159.
-             9-8-1970    Electric power lines; City of Highland; state aid
                          route 40 Highland; St. Rose Road.
-             11-17-1971  Godfrey Twp. Utility Board, (C.H. 4; Bored).
-             7-12-1972   City of Alton; sanitary sewer; C.H. 4 (Humbert).
-             7-12-1972   Village of Brighton; 6-inch water line.
-             10-18-1972  9th St. Wood River; along and across C.H. 38; 8-inch.
-             5-16-1973   Godfrey Twp. Utility Board (sewers on C.H. 4-12-17-
                          36-52-60 and 61).
-             5-16-1973   Jersey Co. Rural Water Co.; construct, operate, and
                          maintain water lines.
-             12-18-1974  Village of Grantfork; Grantfork Water District.
-             2-19-1975   Cottonwood Corp. Inc., (construct-operate sewer
                          lines).
-             4-23-1975   Midland Telephone Co. of Urbana; aerial and
                          underground lines.
-             5-21-1975   Troy Water District; C.H. in Troy, Illinois.
-             6-19-1975   Rosewood Hts. sanitary sewer district (sewer line)
                          perpetual easement.
-             11-25-1975  Madison County Cablevision Corp.; communication
                          lines.
                          Prohibiting connection of sanitary or industrial
-             11-26-1975  waste sewers to storm water drainage systems. (Fine
                          not less than $25 nor more than $1,000.)
-             7-21-1976   C.L. Gruver (sanitary sewer; portion of Humbert).
-             9-22-1976   Henry Zoelzer, C.H. 53.
-             5-19-1979   City of Collinsville; sanitary sewer C.H. 35.
-             7-16-1986   Village of Glen Carbon; rates for wastewater
                          conveyance services.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1993 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Reference Code Section
ILCS Reference                Code Section
5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.        72.047
                              30.03;
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.          32.43;
                              41.03;
                              72.110
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.          72.110
5 ILCS 315/1 et seq.          Ch. 33
5 ILCS 315/3                  40.01
5 ILCS 420/1-115              40.22;
                              40.25
5 ILCS 420/1-116              40.21
5 ILCS 420/4A et seq.         40.20;
                              40.24
5 ILCS 420/4A-101             40.20
5 ILCS 420/4A-105             40.22
10 ILCS 5/1-3                 40.01
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4               40.01
10 ILCS 5/9-3                 40.01
20 ILCS 5/18                  54.60
20 IlCS 2305/2—8.1          113.001
20 IlCS 3305/1 et seq.        36.02
25 ILCS 170/1 et seq.         40.01;
                              54.02
30 ILCS 525/0.1 et seq.       34.01
30 ILCS 535/1                 34.08
35 ILCS 200/1 et seq.         90.01
35 ILCS 200/21-40 et seq.     31.15
35 ILCS 200/27-5 et seq.      92.062
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.          72.163;
                              72.164
50 ILCS 750/0.01–17         38.20
50 ILCS 750/0.01 et seq.      38.27
50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.         55.01
50 ILCS 820/2.a.              55.02
55 ILCS 5/                    34.08
55 ILCS 5/3-5029              92.003
                              92.002;
55 ILCS 5/5-1041              92.003;
                              94.01;
                              114.001
55 ILCS 5/5-1045              92.048
55 ILCS 5/5-1052              77.99
55 ILCS 5/5-1058              Ch. 75
55 ILCS 5/5-1059              74.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1063              94.01
                              72.026;
                              72.028;
55 ILCS 5/5-1095              72.033;
                              72.046;
                              72.067;
                              Ch. 72, App. A
55 ILCS 5/5-1096              72.034
55 ILCS 5/5-1112              90.02
                              10.99;
                              40.20;
55 ILCS 5/5-1113              40.25;
                              40.99;
                              114.001
55 ILCS 5/5-6001 et seq.      90.15
55 ILCS 5/5-8001 et seq.      111.02
55 ILCS 5/5-12001             114.001
55 ILCS 5/5-12010             93.177
55 ILCS 5/5-15001             114.001
55 ILCS 5/5-23002(b)          32.25
55 ILCS 5/5-25001 et seq.     32.25
55 ILCS 5/5-41005—41060     39.01;
                              39.14
55 ILCS 80/1 et seq.          41.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1             10.99
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2              38.02
70 ILCS 405/                  114.002
70 ILCS 3105/1 et seq.        39.01
210 ILCS 115/1 et seq.        Ch. 91;
                              91.006
210 ILCS 120/1                94.07
220 ILCS 5/                   72.025
220 IlCS 5/2-100 et seq.      115.04
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)          115.02
220 ILCS 5/21-301(c)          72.160
220 ILCS 5/21-401             72.004;
                              115.02
220 ILCS 5/21-401(b)(6)       72.160
220 ILCS 5/21-801             72.004
220 ILCS 5/21-801(b)          72.004
220 ILCS 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi)   72.004
220 ILCS 5/22-501             72.130
220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(l)       72.132
220 ILCS 5/22-501(s)          72.133
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.         115.15
220 ILCS 65/4                 115.04
225 ILCS 225                  110.015
225 ILCS 227/1 et seq         51.01
225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.        54.02
225 ILCS 465/1 et seq.        Ch. 75
225 ILCS 470/1 et seq.        111.53
225 ILCS 605                  50.019;
                              50.080
225 ILCS 605 et seq.          50.019
230 ILCS 15/3                 54.73
230 ILCS 15/4                 54.73
                              93.029;
230 ILCS 40                   93.030;
                              93.031;
                              93.032
235 ILCS 5/1 et seq.          70.001 
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.        70.001;
                              70.022
235 ILCS 5/1-3.01–1-3.39    70.001
235 ILCS 5/1-3.17.1           70.023
235 ILCS 5/2-1                70.015
235 ILCS 5/3-12               70.999
                              70.016;
235 ILCS 5/4-1                70.017;
                              70.057;
                              70.999
235 ILCS 5/4-2                70.070
                              70.016;
235 ILCS 5/4-4                70.076;
                              70.999
235 ILCS 5/4-4–4-5          70.071
235 ILCS 5/6-1                70.022
235 ILCS 5/6-2                70.020
235 ILCS 5/6-11               70.024
235 ILCS 5/6-12               70.024
235 ILCS 5/6-14               70.055
235 ILCS 5/6-16               70.038—
                              70.040
235 ILCS 5/6-17               70.036
235 ILCS 5/6-20               70.038—
                              70.040
235 ILCS 5/6-24               70.059
235 ILCS 5/6-24a              70.059
235 ILCS 5/6-28               70.037
235 ILCS 5/7-1                70.018;
                              70.023
235 ILCS 5/7-2                70.018
                              70.072;
235 ILCS 5/7-5                70.075;
                              70.076;
                              70.999
235 ILCS 5/7-7                70.075
235 ILCS 5/7-9                70.077;
                              70.999
235 ILCS 5/10-2               70.073;
                              70.074
235 ILCS 5/10-3               70.073;
                              70.074
405 ILCS 20/                  32.01
405 ILCS 20/3e(2)             32.01
410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.         54.30
410 ILCS 130/60(b)            37.18
410 ILCS 620/10               55.02
410 ILCS 625/3.4              93.083
415 ILCS 5/11                 114.022;
                              114.041
415 ILCS 5/12                 114.022;
                              114.041
415 ILCS 5/21                 111.02
415 ILCS 5/22.14              111.37
415 ILCS 5/22.15(J)(1)        111.53
415 ILCS 5/39                 111.02
415 ILCS 5/39.2               111.37
415 ILCS 5/39.2(a)            111.31;
                              111.37
415 ILCS 5/39.2(b)            111.36
415 ILCS 5/39.2(c)            111.31
415 ILCS 15/1 et seq.         112.02
415 ILCS 30/1                 113.001
415 ILCS 35/1–10            113.001
415 ILCS 55/                  114.002 
425 ILCS 35/2.2               51.01
505 ILCS 75/                  114.002
510 ILCS 2.11b                50.002
510 ILCS 2.16                 50.002
510 ILCS 2.18b                50.002
510 ILCS 15.5                 50.087
                              50.002;
                              50.003;
                              50.019;
                              50.022;
                              50.023;
                              50.048;
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.          50.080;
                              50.081;
                              50.086;
                              50.115;
                              50.135;
                              50.190;
                              50.999
510 ILCS 5/2.05a              50.002
510 ILCS 5/2.17a              50.002
510 ILCS 5/2.18               50.002
510 ILCS 5/2.19-3             50.002
510 ILCS 5/2.19b              50.002
510 ILCS 5/3                  50.015
510 ILCS 5/5                  50.019
510 ILCS 5/8                  50.023;
                              50.131
510 ILCS 5/8(e)               50.018
510 ILCS 5/8                  50.002;
                              50.133
510 ILCS 5/10(b)              50.137
510 ILCS 5/11                 50.137
510 ILCS 5/13                 50.138
510 ILCS 5/15                 50.083
510 ILCS 5/15(a)              50.083
510 ILCS 5/15.1               50.081
510 ILCS 5/15.3               50.085
510 ILCS 20                   93.100
                              50.019;
                              50.022;
510 ILCS 70/                  50.048;
                              50.080;
                              50.190
                              50.020;
510 ILCS 70/1 et seq.         50.082;
                              50.175
510 ILCS 72 et seq.           50.080
510 ILCS 72/1 et seq.         50.044
510 ILCS 92/1 et seq.         50.043
520 ILCS 5/1 et seq.          50.002
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.      115.02
615 ILCS 5/                   114.002
615 ILCS 5/18(g)              94.01
625 ILCS 5/11-204             56.15
625 ILCS 5/11-204.1           56.15
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1          56.15
625 ILCS 5/11-1427            56.15
625 ILCS 5/11-1427.4          56.15
720 ILCS 5/11-20              76.01;
                              76.06
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1            76.06
720 ILCS 5/12-3.05            56.15
720 ILCS 5/12-7.1             54.61
720 ILCS 5/12-9               54.61
720 ILCS 5/12-10              77.30
720 ILCS 5/12-10.1            77.30
720 ILCS 5/20-2               54.61
720 ILCS 5/21-3               56.15
720 ILCS 5/21-4               54.61
720 ILCS 5/21-5               54.61
720 ILCS 5/21-6               54.61
720 ILCS 5/25-1               54.61
720 ILCS 5/26-1               54.61
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a)(3)–(a)(1070.020
720 ILCS 5/28-3               70.020
720 ILCS 5/31-1 et seq.       54.61
720 ILCS 5/32-1 et seq.       54.61
720 ILCS 5/36-1               56.15
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.        74.03
720 ILCS 550/3                74.03
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.      74.03
720 ILCS 570/102              74.03
730 ILCS 5/5-5-3.2            54.61
730 ILCS 125/17               37.16
735 ILCS 5/2-203              39.14
735 ILCS 5/3-101              91.097
                              32.56;
                              39.12;
                              39.14;
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.      39.48;
                              54.16;
                              55.65;
                              91.097
745 ILCS 10/1-101             92.006
760 ILCS 55/1 et seq.         54.02
765 ILCS 205                  92.999
                              92.007;
765 ILCS 205/0.1 et seq.      92.048;
                              92.076
765 ILCS 205/1                92.002
                              92.003;
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.        92.021;
                              92.046
765 ILCS 205/2                94.08
765 ILCS 205/5                92.999
765 ILCS 205/11               92.999
                              70.001;
805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.       70.018;
                              70.020;
                              70.071
820 ILCS 192/1 et seq.        31.04
820 ILCS 405/100 et seq.      37.15
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1993 CODE
1993 Code Section 2014 Code Section
1993 Code Section 2014 Code Section
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
10.99             10.99
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
30.04             30.03
31.01             31.01
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.30             31.30
31.31             31.31
31.32             31.32
31.33             31.33
31.34             31.34
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.05             32.05
32.06             32.06
32.07             32.07
32.08             32.08
32.09             32.09
32.10             32.10
32.11             32.11
32.20             32.25
32.21             32.26
32.22             32.27
32.23             32.28
36.01             36.02
36.02             36.04
36.04             36.06
36.05             36.07
36.06             36.08
36.07             36.09
36.08             36.10
36.11             36.12
36.12             36.13
36.13             36.14
36.14             36.15
36.15             36.16
38.01             38.01
38.02             38.02
38.03             38.03
38.04             38.04
38.05             38.05
38.20             38.20
38.22             38.22
38.23             38.23
38.24             38.24
38.25             38.25
38.26             38.26
38.27             38.27
39.01             39.01
39.02             39.02
39.03             39.03
39.04             39.04
39.05             39.05
39.06             39.06
39.07             39.07
39.08             39.08
39.09             39.09
39.10             39.10
39.11             39.11
39.12             39.12
39.13             39.13
39.14             39.14
39.25             39.25
39.26             39.26
39.27             39.27
39.28             39.28
39.29             39.29
39.30             39.30
39.31             39.31
39.32             39.32
39.33             39.33
39.34             39.34
39.35             39.35
39.36             39.36
39.37             39.37
39.38             39.38
39.39             39.39
39.40             39.40
39.41             39.41
39.42             39.42
39.43             39.43
39.44             39.44
39.45             39.45
39.46             39.46
39.47             39.47
39.48             39.48
39.49             39.49
41.01             41.01
41.02             41.02
41.03             41.03
41.04             41.04
41.05             41.05
41.06             41.06
41.07             41.07
50.001            50.001
50.002            50.002
50.003            50.003
50.015            50.015
50.016            50.016
50.017            50.017
50.018            50.018
50.019            50.019
50.020            50.020
50.022            50.022
50.023            50.023
50.040            50.040
50.041            50.041
50.042            50.042
50.043            50.043
50.044            50.044
50.045            50.045
50.046            50.046
50.047            50.047
50.048            50.048
50.049            50.049
50.060            50.060
50.061            50.061
50.062            50.062
50.063            50.063
50.064            50.064
50.065            50.065
50.066            50.066
50.080            50.080
50.081            50.081
50.082            50.082
50.083            50.083
50.084            50.084
50.085            50.085
50.086            50.086
50.100            50.100
50.101            50.101
50.102            50.102
50.103            50.103
50.115            50.115
50.116            50.116
50.117            50.117
50.118            50.118
50.130            50.130
50.131            50.131
50.132            50.132
50.133            50.133
50.134            50.134
50.135            50.135
50.136            50.136
50.137            50.137
50.138            50.138
50.139            50.139
50.140            50.140
50.141            50.141
50.160            50.160
50.161            50.161
50.170            50.175
50.171            50.176
50.172            50.177
50.185            50.190
50.186            50.191
50.999            50.999
54.01             54.01
54.02             54.02
54.10             54.15
54.11             54.16
54.15             54.30
54.16             54.31
54.17             54.32
54.18             54.33
54.20             54.45
54.21             54.46
54.22             54.47
54.23             54.48
54.30             54.60
54.31             54.61
54.99             54.99
55.01             55.01
55.02             55.02
55.10             55.15
55.11             55.16
55.12             55.17
55.13             55.18
55.14             55.19
55.15             55.20
55.16             55.21
55.17             55.22
55.18             55.23
55.20             55.35
55.21             55.36
55.22             55.37
55.30             55.50
55.31             55.51
55.32             55.52
55.40             55.65
55.99             55.99
56.01             56.01
56.02             56.02
56.03             56.03
56.04             56.04
56.05             56.05
56.06             56.06
56.07             56.07
56.08             56.08
56.09             56.09
56.10             56.10
56.11             56.11
56.12             56.12
56.13             56.13
56.14             56.14
56.15             56.15
56.16             56.16
56.99             56.99
70.01             70.001
70.10             70.015
70.11             70.016
70.12             70.017
70.13             70.018
70.14             70.019
70.15             70.020
70.16             70.021
70.17             70.022
70.18             70.023
70.19             70.024
70.30             70.035
70.31             70.036
70.32             70.037
70.33             70.038
70.34             70.039
70.35             70.040
70.40             70.055
70.41             70.056
70.42             70.057
70.43             70.058
70.44             70.059
70.50             70.070
70.51             70.071
70.52             70.072
70.53             70.073
70.54             70.074
70.55             70.075
70.56             70.076
70.57             70.077
70.99             70.999
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.05             71.05
71.99             71.99
72.001            72.001
72.002            72.002
72.003            72.003
72.004            72.004
72.005            72.005
72.006            72.006
72.007            72.007
72.008            72.008
72.009            72.009
72.010            72.010
72.011            72.011
72.012            72.012
72.013            72.013
72.020            72.025
72.021            72.026
72.022            72.027
72.023            72.028
72.024            72.029
72.025            72.030
72.026            72.031
72.027            72.032
72.028            72.033
72.029            72.034
72.040            72.045
72.041            72.046
72.042            72.047
72.043            72.048
72.044            72.049
72.045            72.050
72.046            72.051
72.047            72.052
72.048            72.053
72.060            72.065
72.061            72.066
72.062            72.067
72.063            72.068
72.064            72.069
72.065            72.070
72.066            72.071
72.067            72.072
72.068            72.073
72.069            72.074
72.070            72.075
72.080            72.090
72.081            72.091
72.082            72.092
72.083            72.093
72.084            72.094
72.085            72.095
72.086            72.096
72.087            72.097
72.100            72.110
72.101            72.111
72.102            72.112
72.103            72.113
72.104            72.114
72.105            72.115
72.106            72.116
72.130            72.145
72.155            72.175
72.156            72.176
72.157            72.177
72.158            72.178
72.159            72.179
72.160            72.180
72.170            72.195
72.171            72.196
72.172            72.197
72.173            72.198
72.174            72.199
72.175            72.200
72.176            72.201
72.185            72.215
72.186            72.216
72.187            72.217
72.999            72.999
Ch. 72, App.      Ch. 72, App. A
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.04             73.04
73.05             73.05
73.06             73.06
73.07             73.07
73.08             73.08
73.09             73.09
73.10             73.10
73.11             73.11
73.12             73.12
73.13             73.13
73.14             73.14
73.15             73.15
73.16             73.16
73.17             73.17
73.18             73.18
73.19             73.19
73.20             73.20
73.99             73.99
74.01             74.01
74.02             74.02
74.03             74.03
74.04             74.04
74.05             74.05
74.06             74.06
74.07             74.07
74.20             74.20
74.21             74.21
74.22             74.22
74.23             74.23
74.99             74.99
75.01             75.01
75.02             75.02
75.03             75.03
75.04             75.04
75.05             75.05
75.07             75.07
75.99             75.99
76.01             76.01
76.02             76.02
76.03             76.03
76.04             76.04
76.05             76.05
76.06             76.06
76.07             76.07
76.08             76.08
76.09             76.09
76.10             76.10
76.11             76.11
76.12             76.12
76.99             76.99
77.01             77.01
77.10             77.15
77.11             77.16
77.12             77.17
77.13             77.18
77.20             77.30
77.21             77.31
77.22             77.32
77.23             77.33
77.24             77.34
77.25             77.35
77.26             77.36
77.27             77.37
77.28             77.38
77.29             77.39
77.40             77.50
77.99             77.99
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.10             90.15
90.99             90.99
91.01             91.001
91.02             91.002
91.03             91.003
91.04             91.004
91.05             91.005
91.06             91.006
91.15             91.020
91.16             91.021
91.20             91.035
91.21             91.036
91.22             91.037
91.23             91.038
91.24             91.039
91.25             91.040
91.26             91.041
91.27             91.042
91.28             91.043
91.29             91.044
91.40             91.055
91.41             91.056
91.42             91.057
91.43             91.058
91.44             91.059
91.45             91.060
91.46             91.061
91.47             91.062
91.60             91.075
91.61             91.076
91.62             91.077
91.63             91.078
91.64             91.079
91.65             91.080
91.66             91.081
91.67             91.082
91.68             91.083
91.80             91.095
91.81             91.096
91.82             91.097
92.01             92.001
92.02             92.002
92.03             92.003
92.04             92.004
92.05             92.005
92.06             92.006
92.07             92.007
92.09             92.008
92.20             92.020
92.21             92.021
92.22             92.022
92.23             92.023
92.24             92.024
92.25             92.025
92.26             92.026
92.27             92.027
92.28             92.028
92.29             92.029
92.30             92.030
92.31             92.031
92.32             92.032
92.33             92.033
92.34             92.034
92.45             92.045
92.46             92.046
92.47             92.047
92.48             92.048
92.49             92.049
92.60             92.060
92.61             92.061
92.62             92.062
92.63             92.063
92.75             92.075
92.76             92.076
92.77             92.077
92.78             92.078
92.79             92.079
92.99             92.999
110.01            110.001
110.02            110.002
110.11            110.015
110.20            110.030
110.21            110.031
110.22            110.032
110.23            110.033
110.24            110.034
110.25            110.035
110.26            110.036
110.27            110.037
110.28            110.038
110.29            110.039
110.30            110.040
110.31            110.041
110.40            110.055
110.41            110.056
110.42            110.057
110.43            110.058
110.50            110.070
110.51            110.071
110.52            110.072
110.53            110.073
110.60            110.085
110.61            110.086
110.99            110.999
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.15            111.15
111.16            111.16
111.17            111.17
111.30            111.30
111.31            111.31
111.32            111.32
111.33            111.33
111.34            111.34
111.35            111.35
111.36            111.36
111.37            111.37
111.38            111.38
111.39            111.39
111.50            111.50
111.51            111.51
111.52            111.52
111.53            111.53
111.54            111.54
111.55            111.55
111.99            111.99
112.01            112.01
112.02            112.02
112.03            112.03
112.10            112.15
112.11            112.16
112.20            112.30;
                  112.99
112.21            112.31
112.22            112.32
112.23            112.33
112.24            112.34
112.25            112.35
112.26            112.36
113.01            113.001
113.02            113.002
113.10            113.015
113.20            113.030
113.21            113.031
113.22            113.032
113.30            113.045
113.40            113.060
113.41            113.061
113.42            113.062
113.50            113.075
113.60            113.090
113.70            113.105
113.80            113.120
113.99            113.999
114.01            114.001
114.02            114.002
114.03            114.003
114.04            114.004
114.05            114.005
114.06            114.006
114.07            114.007
114.20            114.020
114.21            114.021
114.22            114.022
114.23            114.023
114.24            114.024
114.25            114.025
114.35            114.040
114.36            114.041
114.37            114.042
114.38            114.043
114.39            114.044
114.50            114.060
114.60            114.075
114.61            114.076
114.62            114.077
114.70            114.090
114.71            114.091
114.72            114.092
114.73            114.093
114.74            114.094
114.75            114.095
114.80            114.110
114.99            114.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        4-4-1989    92.026
                     110.001;
99-12    7-21-1999   110.002;
                     110.015;
                     110.999
99-14    9-15-1999   TSO III
-        5-16-2001   31.31
                     70.016;
-        2-17-2010   70.018—
                     70.021
-        10-17-2012  32.40—
                     32.62
-        10-17-2012  113.033;
                     113.999
-        4-16-2014   TSO II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         90.30
81-3     - -         Ch. 33
92-8     - -         92.026
-        1950-1951   TSO III
-        12-20-1950  TSO III
-        2-19-1952   TSO III
-        3- -1952    TSO III
-        9-9-1952    TSO III
-        3-18-1953   TSO III
-        - -1954     TSO III
-        4- -1954    TSO III
-        7- -1954    TSO III
-        9-14-1954   TSO III
-        7- -1955    TSO III
-        7-27-1955   TSO III
-        1-18-1956   TSO III
-        4-25-1956   TSO III
                     92.001—
                     92.005;
                     92.007;
                     92.020;
                     92.022—
                     92.034;
-        10-17-1956  92.045;
                     92.046;
                     92.048;
                     92.060—
                     92.063;
                     92.075—
                     92.079
-        3-20-1957   TSO III
-        10-16-1957  TSO III
-        3-19-1958   TSO III
-        6-9-1958    TSO III
-        10-15-1958  TSO III
-        11-19-1958  TSO III
-        7-15-1959   TSO III
-        8-19-1959   TSO III
-        1-13-1960   TSO III
-        5-18-1960   TSO III
-        7-13-1960   TSO III
-        12-14-1960  TSO III
-        7-19-1961   TSO III
-        2-14-1962   TSO III
-        6-11-1962   TSO III
-        4-24-1963   TSO III
-        4-24-1963   TSO III
-        7-17-1963   TSO III
-        8-14-1963   TSO III
-        10-17-1963  TSO III
-        11-19-1963  TSO III
-        11-19-1963  TSO III
-        4-20-1964   TSO III
-        7- -1964    TSO III
-        2-16-1966   TSO III
-        7-13-1966   TSO III
-        9-13-1966   TSO III
-        11-22-1967  TSO III
-        12-20-1967  TSO III
-        12-20-1967  32.01—
                     32.11
-        3-20-1968   TSO III
-        3-20-1968   TSO III
-        6-24-1968   TSO III
                     71.01—
                     71.05;
-        10-16-1968  74.20—
                     74.23;
                     74.99
-        9-8-1970    TSO III
-        11-17-1971  TSO III
-        7-12-1972   TSO III
-        7-12-1972   TSO III
-        10-18-1972  TSO III
-        5-16-1973   TSO III
-        5-16-1973   TSO III
-        12-18-1974  TSO III
-        2-19-1975   TSO III
-        4-23-1975   TSO III
-        5-21-1975   TSO III
                     91.001—
                     91.006;
                     91.020;
                     91.021;
                     91.035—
                     91.044;
-        6-9-1975    91.055—
                     91.062;
                     91.075—
                     91.083;
                     91.095—
                     91.097;
                     91.999
-        6-19-1975   TSO III
-        11-25-1975  TSO III
-        11-26-1975  TSO III
-        7-21-1976   TSO III
-        9-22-1976   TSO III
                     91.057;
-        1-19-1977   91.062;
                     91.080—
                     91.082
-        3-16-1977   31.01—
                     31.03
                     36.04;
                     36.06—
-        3-16-1977   36.10;
                     36.12—
                     36.16
                     75.01—
-        8-16-1978   75.05;
                     75.07;
                     75.99
                     92.001—
                     92.007;
                     92.020—
                     92.034;
-        10-18-1978  92.045—
                     92.049;
                     92.060—
                     92.063;
                     92.075—
                     92.079
-        5-19-1979   TSO III
81-8     9-16-1981   TSO I
82-11    1-20-1982   TSO I
82-13    4-21-1982   90.99
                     74.01—
82-4     6-16-1982   74.07;
                     74.99
-        11-17-1982  74.07
                     71.01—
82-7     11-17-1982  71.05;
                     74.99
                     71.01—
83-5     11-16-1983  71.05;
                     71.99
84-3     4-18-1984   TSO I
                     73.01—
                     73.03;
84-4     4-18-1984   73.05—
                     73.07;
                     73.12;
                     73.99
84-9     8-15-1984   TSO III
85-2     3-20-1985   TSO I
-        7-16-1986   TSO III
89-3     3-15-1987   111.35
-        5-20-1987   111.51
87-8     10-21-1987  TSO II
                     38.01—
                     38.05;
89-2     1-25-1989   38.20;
                     38.22;
                     38.24—
                     38.27
                     111.01—
                     111.03;
                     111.15—
                     111.17;
                     111.30—
                     111.34;
89-3     3-15-1989   111.36—
                     111.39;
                     111.50;
                     111.52;
                     111.54;
                     111.55;
                     111.99
89-8     4-19-1989   90.15
89-11    6-21-1989   TSO I
89-12    6-21-1989   38.01;
                     38.23
90-4     8-15-1990   111.53
90-8     11-14-1990  31.30—
                     31.34
91-2     3-20-1991   38.23
                     73.02;
                     73.04;
                     73.08—
92-5     3-20-1992   73.11;
                     73.13—
                     73.20;
                     73.99
                     50.001—
                     50.003;
                     50.015—
                     50.020;
                     50.022;
                     50.040—
                     50.049;
                     50.060—
                     50.066;
                     50.080—
                     50.082;
92-10    11-18-1992  50.100—
                     50.103;
                     50.115—
                     50.118;
                     50.130—
                     50.141;
                     50.160;
                     50.161;
                     50.175—
                     50.177;
                     50.190;
                     50.191;
                     50.999
                     70.001;
                     70.015—
                     70.024;
                     70.035—
93-09    12-15-1993  70.039;
                     70.055—
                     70.059;
                     70.070—
                     70.077;
                     70.999
93-10    12-15-1993  70.017;
                     70.021
93-11    12-15-1993  50.023
94-02    3-16-1994   TSO I
                     54.01;
                     54.02;
                     54.15;
                     54.16;
                     54.30—
94-03    3-16-1994   54.33;
                     54.45—
                     54.48;
                     54.60;
                     54.61;
                     54.99
94-04    3-16-1994   70.055
94-05    4-20-1994   31.01;
                     31.31
                     112.01—
                     112.03;
                     112.15;
94-09    7-20-1994   112.16;
                     112.30—
                     112.36;
                     112.99
94-10    8-17-1994   32.25—
                     32.28
94-16    11-16-1994  70.018
95-02    3-15-1995   32.26
95-03    6-21-1995   TSO II
95-07    11-15-1995  TSO I
96-01    2-21-1996   TSO I
                     113.001;
                     113.002;
                     113.015;
                     113.030—
                     113.032;
                     113.045;
96-04    5-1-1996    113.060—
                     113.062;
                     113.075;
                     113.090;
                     113.105;
                     113.120;
                     113.999
96-06    6-19-1996   TSO I
96-10    9-18-1996   70.017
96-11    9-18-1996   TSO I
                     72.001—
                     72.013;
                     72.025—
                     72.034;
                     72.045—
                     72.053;
                     72.065—
                     72.075;
                     72.090—
96-12    10-16-1996  72.097;
                     72.110—
                     72.116;
                     72.145;
                     72.175—
                     72.180;
                     72.195—
                     72.201;
                     72.215—
                     72.217
96-12    10-16-1996  72.999;
                     Ch. 72, App. A, 1
96-13    11-20-1996  TSO I
96-14    11-20-1996  TSO II
96-15    12-18-1996  TSO I
                     110.001;
                     110.002;
                     110.015;
                     110.030—
                     110.041;
98-08    6-17-1998   110.055—
                     110.058;
                     110.070—
                     110.073;
                     110.085;
                     110.086;
                     110.999
98-15    11-18-1998  TSO I
                     39.01—
98-17    11-18-1998  39.14;
                     39.25—
                     39.49
                     76.01—
99-03    2-17-1999   76.12;
                     76.99
99-13    9-15-1999   TSO I
-        11-17-1999  31.31
2000-02  2-16-2000   50.080—
                     50.086
                     39.01—
2000-04  3-15-2000   39.14;
                     39.25—
                     39.49
                     114.001—
                     114.007;
                     114.020—
                     114.025;
                     114.040—
                     114.044;
2000-09  8-16-2000   114.060;
                     114.075—
                     114.077;
                     114.090—
                     114.095;
                     114.110;
                     114.999
2001-06  6-14-2001   92.031
2001-09  8-15-2001   92.062
                     92.007;
                     92.024;
                     92.026;
                     92.032;
                     92.033;
2002-14  - -2002     92.045;
                     92.047;
                     92.048;
                     92.061;
                     92.063;
                     92.075—
                     92.079
                     41.01;
2002-05  4-17-2002   41.03—
                     41.07
                     56.01—
2002-09  6-19-2002   56.16;
                     56.99
                     92.007;
                     92.024;
                     92.026;
                     92.032;
-        9-18-2002   92.033;
                     92.046—
                     92.048;
                     92.078;
                     92.079
                     50.002;
                     50.003;
                     50.015;
                     50.016;
                     50.018—
                     50.020;
                     50.022;
                     50.023;
                     50.040—
                     50.045;
                     50.048;
                     50.066;
2003-08  11-19-2003  50.067;
                     50.080—
                     50.083;
                     50.085;
                     50.101;
                     50.115;
                     50.118;
                     50.130;
                     50.131;
                     50.177;
                     50.190;
                     50.205;
                     50.206;
                     50.999
                     40.01—
2004-04  5-19-2004   40.05;
                     40.99
2004-5   7-31-2004   31.31
                     30.01—
2005-01  3-16-2005   30.04;
                     31.15;
                     31.16
2005-08  9-21-2005   37.16
                     77.01;
                     77.15—
                     77.18;
2006-04  5-17-2006   77.30—
                     77.39;
                     77.50;
                     77.99
                     92.008;
                     92.024;
                     92.031;
2006-06  6-21-2006   92.046—
                     92.048;
                     92.061;
                     92.063
                     50.001—
                     50.003;
                     50.015—
                     50.020;
                     50.022;
                     50.023;
                     50.040—
                     50.049;
                     50.060—
                     50.067;
                     50.080—
                     50.086;
                     50.100—
2006-07  6-21-2006   50.103;
                     50.115—
                     50.118;
                     50.130—
                     50.141;
                     50.160;
                     50.161;
                     50.175—
                     50.177;
                     50.190;
                     50.191;
                     50.205;
                     50.206;
                     50.999
2006-013 11-15-2006  34.01—
                     34.08
                     53.01—
2006-15  11-15-2006  53.07;
                     53.99
                     51.01—
2007-05  - -2007     51.10;
                     51.99
2007-09  8-15-2007   31.30—
                     31.34
                     90.99;
2008-03  6-18-2008   91.999;
                     92.999
                     114.001;
                     114.008;
                     114.009;
2008-06  6-18-2008   114.022;
                     114.041;
                     114.045;
                     114.046
2008-12  9-17-2008   50.023
                     55.01;
                     55.02;
                     55.15—
                     55.23;
2008-15  11-19-2008  55.35—
                     55.37;
                     55.50—
                     55.52;
                     55.65;
                     55.99
                     77.02;
2009-07  - -2009     77.15;
                     77.17
2009-01  1-21-2009   111.53
2009-02  2-18-2009   30.02
                     114.125—
2009-03  3-18-2009   114.137;
                     114.999
2009-04  4-29-2009   31.15
2009-05  6-17-2009   90.15
2009-15  12-16-2009  36.01—
                     36.17
2010-09  5-19-2010   50.141
                     50.023;
                     50.044;
21       12-15-2010  50.081;
                     50.133;
                     50.161
22       12-15-2010  90.15
2011-02  3-16-2011   34.01—
                     34.08
2011-03  4-20-2011   37.15;
                     37.99
2011-04  5-18-2011   70.041;
                     70.999
-        4-16-2012   TSO II
2012-03  5-16-2012   55.02;
                     55.23
                     92.007;
2012-05  6-20-2012   92.023;
                     92.030
                     40.20—
2012-06  6-20-2012   40.25;
                     40.99
2012-08  8-15-2012   30.05
2013-01  1-16-2013   55.23
                     115.01—
2013-03  3-20-2013   115.21;
                     115.99
                     72.001;
                     72.004;
                     72.025;
2013-04  3-20-2013   72.130—
                     72.133;
                     72.160—
                     72.164;
                     72.999
-        6-19-2013   37.30
2014-05  7-16-2014   54.70—
                     54.76
2014-13  11-19-2014  T.S.O. I
                     93.007;
                     93.023;
                     93.025;
2014-14  11-19-2014  93.026;
                     93.083;
                     93.118;
                     93.122
                     93.007;
2014-15  11-19-2014  93.023;
                     93.025;
                     93.100
2014-16  12-17-2014  Adopting Ordinance
                     113.001;
                     113.060—
2014-17  12-17-2014  113.062;
                     113.075;
                     113.090
                     93.001—
                     93.006;
                     93.020—
                     93.040;
                     93.050—
                     93.064;
                     93.075—
                     93.102;
                     93.115—
                     93.116;
                     93.118—
2014-18  4-16-2014   93.126;
                     93.140—
                     93.149;
                     93.160—
                     93.166;
                     93.175—
                     93.182;
                     93.195—
                     93.197;
                     93.999,
                     Ch. 93, App. A,
                     B
                     93.007;
2015-06  8-17-2015   93.023;
                     93.103
2015-09  10-21-2015  Adopting Ordinance
                     93.023;
                     93.025;
                     93.030;
                     93.052;
                     93.054;
                     93.085;
2016-02  2-16-2016   93.100;
                     93.101;
                     93.115;
                     93.177;
                     93.182;
                     93.188;
                     93.189
2016-04  - -         34.01
2017-01  - -         37.17
2017-01A 2-2-2017    113.033;
                     113.999; Ch. 113, App. A
                     93.007;
                     93.023;
                     93.029;
                     93.030;
                     93.031;
                     93.032;
2017-02  6-1-2017    93.034;
                     93.035;
                     93.036;
                     93.052;
                     93.083;
                     93.096;
                     93.100;
                     93.104
                     55.01;
                     55.02;
                     55.15—
                     55.23;
                     55.35—
2018-04  12-1-2018   55.37;
                     55.50—
                     55.52;
                     55.65;
                     55.99;
                     App. A
2019-01  2-20-2019   30.02
2019-02  - -         113.033;
                     113.999; Ch. 113, App. A
2019-03  3-11-2019   78.01—
                     78.05
2019-04  4-8-2019    50.023
2020-01  1-15-2020   37.18
                     93.004;
                     93.007;
                     93.020;
                     93.023—
                     93.036;
                     93.038;
                     93.040;
                     93.051—
                     93.054;
                     93.061;
2020-02  1-16-2020   93.087;
                     93.101;
                     93.105;
                     93.115;
                     93.116;
                     93.118;
                     93.119;
                     93.121;
                     93.122;
                     93.127;
                     93.177
                     77.01;
                     77.02;
                     77.15—
2020-03  3-18-2020   77.18;
                     77.30—
                     77.39;
                     77.50;
                     77.99
2020-04  6-15-2020   40.06
                     34.01;
                     34.02;
2020-06  - -         34.03;
                     34.04;
                     34.06;
                     34.08
                     113.033;
2020-07  11-18-2020  113.999;
                     Ch. 113, App. A
                     113.033;
2021-02  6-16-2021   113.999;
                     Ch. 113, App. A
2021-06  11-17-2021  30.02;
                     30.03
2021-08  11-17-2021  50.023
2021-11  12-15-2021  30.05
                     50.001—
                     50.003;
                     50.015—
                     50.020;
                     50.022;
                     50.023;
                     50.040—
                     50.049;
                     50.060—
                     50.067;
                     50.080—
                     50.087;
                     50.100—
                     50.103;
2022-01  3-16-2022   50.115—
                     50.118;
                     50.130—
                     50.141;
                     50.160;
                     50.161;
                     50.175—
                     50.177;
                     50.190;
                     50.191;
                     50.205;
                     50.206;
                     50.300—
                     50.302;
                     50.999
                     30.01;
                     30.04;
2022-03  7-20-2022   31.15;
                     31.16;
                     31.31;
                     31.32
                     94.01—
2022-04  7-7-2022    94.12;
                     94.99
2022-07  11-16-2022  50.002
2023-03  10-18-2023  30.02
2023-04  11-15-2023  31.04
                     39.49;
                     51.03;
                     51.05;
                     51.07;
                     90.15;
                     91.006;
                     91.020;
                     91.041;
                     91.083;
                     92.007;
                     92.020;
                     92.022—
                     92.024;
                     92.026;
                     92.031;
                     92.032;
                     92.045—
                     92.049;
                     92.060—
                     92.063;
                     92.075—
                     92.078;
                     93.002;
                     93.004;
                     93.007;
                     93.023—
                     93.032;
                     93.034—
                     93.036;
                     93.038;
                     93.039;
                     93.051;
                     93.052;
                     93.057;
                     93.060;
                     93.061;
                     93.076;
                     93.080;
                     93.083;
                     93.085;
                     93.089;
                     93.091;
2024-01  3-5-2024    93.096;
                     93.097;
                     93.099—
                     93.101;
                     93.118;
                     93.142;
                     93.146;
                     93.148;
                     93.161;
                     93.175—
                     93.178;
                     93.181;
                     93.182;
                     93.195;
                     93.196;
                     110.015;
                     110.030;
                     110.032—
                     110.036;
                     110.039—
                     110.041;
                     110.055;
                     110.070;
                     110.071;
                     110.073;
                     110.085;
                     110.086;
                     111.15;
                     111.17;
                     111.31;
                     111.32;
                     111.34;
                     111.37—
                     111.39;
                     111.50—
                     111.52;
                     111.54;
                     111.55;
                     112.15;
                     112.32;
                     114.131;
                     114.134;
                     114.135
                     115.02;
                     115.03;
                     115.07;
2024-04  5-15-2024   115.08;
                     115.12—
                     115.15;
                     115.17;
                     115.20
2024-05  6-13-2024   50.161
                    
 
 
