CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1860, passed 8-17-2020
State legislation current through 2020 ALS # 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
MADISON, ILLINOIS
CITY OFFICIALS
2020
Mayor                    John W. Hamm, III
                         
City Attorney            Ron Motil
Clerk of Council         Patricia Howard
Comptroller              Scott Oney
Police Chief             Nicholaus Gailius
Fire Chief               Jeffery Bridick
Deputy Clerk             Dawn L. Davis
Administrative Assistant Sue Beatte
 
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Mark Crochrell
Jim Riskovsky
Harvey Haynes
James Gardner
Steve Hampsey
Dreeta Jenkins
Jeff Bridick
Mike Vrabec
CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS
615 Madison Avenue
Madison, IL 62060
618-876-6268
618-877-4907 (fax)
www.cityofmadisonil.com
Adopting Ordinances
Ordinance No. 1605
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the corporate authorities of the City of Madison, Illinois
(hereinafter referred to as the "City") have determined that the present
ordinances of the City are inadequately arranged and classified and are
insufficient in form and substance for the complete preservation of the public
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the City and for the proper
conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3, grants authority to
the City to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances
and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate
such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the corporate authorities have authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form,
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CORPORATE AUTHORITIES OF THE CITY OF
MADISON, ILLINOIS:
   SECTION 1: Adoption. The general ordinances of the City as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "City of Madison, Illinois Code of Ordinances."
   SECTION 2: Table of Contents -- Arrangement of Titles. Such Code of
Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following Titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter   10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      11.   City Wards
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   City Council
      31.   City Officials
      32.   Departments, Boards and Other Organizations
      33.   Taxation
      34.   Fire Department
      35.   Police Department
      36.   Code and Ordinance violations
      37.   City Policies
      38.   Personnel
      39.   Emergency Services and Disaster Agencies
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Garbage
      51.   Sewers
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Motor Vehicle Licenses
      72.   Winter Emergencies
      73.   Administration and Enforcement
      74.   Traffic Schedules
      75.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Abandoned, Inoperable or Wrecked Vehicles
      91.   Streets and Sidewalks
      92.   Trees and Shrubs
      93.   Fire Code; Prevention
      94.   Fair Housing
      95.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
      96.   Parks and Recreation
      97.   Animals
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Licensing Provisions
      111.   Alcoholic Beverages
      112.   Plumbing Services
      113.   Food and Drink Regulations
      114.   Apartments and Rental Property; Lodging
      115.   Temporary Sales
      116.   Parking Lots
      117.   Adult Businesses
      118.   Laundries
      119.   Tobacco Regulations
      120.   Junk and Second-Hand Dealers
      121.   Fuel Sales and Distribution
      122.   Amusements
      123.   Auctioneers
      124.   Telecommunications
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Offenses
      131.   Weapons
      132.   Offenses Against Public Health and Safety
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   General Building regulations; Construction
      152.   Minimum Housing Standards
      153.   Flood Damage Prevention
      154.   Mobile Homes
      155.   Zoning
      156.   Subdivisions
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table      I.   Demolitions and Repairs
      II.   Annexations and Detachments
      III.   Contracts and Agreements; Real Estate Transactions
      IV.   Franchise Agreements
      V.   Easements and Encroachments
      VI.   Street and Sidewalk Closings and Vacations
      VII.   Street Renamings
      VIII.   Construction; Improvements
      IX.   Zoning Map Changes
      X.   Tax Increment Development Areas
      XI.   Enterprise Zones
      XII.   Dedications and Acceptances
   SECTION 3: Reveal of Prior Ordinances, Effect. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code of Ordinances shall be deemed
repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance except as they are
included and reordained in whole or in part in such Code; provided, such repeal
shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any rights
established prior to the effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other
public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other ordinance or resolution
of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or
covered by the Code.
   SECTION 4: Copy to be on File with City Clerk. Upon the adoption and
approval by the corporate authorities of said Code of Ordinances, the City
Clerk is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code of
Ordinances in the office of the City Clerk.
   SECTION 5: Presumptive Evidence. Such Code shall be in full force and effect
as provided in Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all
courts and places of the ordinance and all the provisions, sections, penalties
and regulations therein contained as of the date of passage.
   SECTION 6: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its publication, passage and approval.
   PASSED AND APPROVED BY A MAJORITY ROLL-CALL VOTE OF THE CORPORATE
AUTHORITIES OF THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, HOLDING OFFICE THIS 11TH DAY OF
MARCH, A.D., 2003, AS FOLLOWS:
ALDERPERSON                AYE      NAY      ABSENT
ELEANOR L. ARMOUR      x
JEFFERY BRIDICK                     x
TED OSTRENGA         x
SUE MILLER            x
STEVE HAMPSEY         x
MICHAEL VRABEC         x
R. WILLIAMS-GARDNER      x
NORRIS HORTON         x
MAYOR
JOHN W. HAMM         x
   John W. Hamm /s/
   Mayor               
Alexis Rozycke-Lux /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 1676
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison,
Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Madison, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS:
Section 1:   That the S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Madison, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City of Madison on this 5th day of September,
2006.
                                                              
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
                                 
CITY CLERK
(SEAL)
ORDINANCE NO. 1690
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison,
Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Madison, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS:
Section 1:   That the S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Madison, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City of Madison on this 24th day of July, 2007.
                     John W. Hamm III  /s/
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
Beth Wachtel  /s/
DEPUTY CLERK
(SEAL)
ORDINANCE NO. 1702
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison,
Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Madison, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS:
Section 1:   That the S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Madison, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City of Madison on this 22nd day of July, 2008.
                     John W. Hamm III  /s/
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
Sharon Cass    /s/
DEPUTY CLERK
(SEAL)
ORDINANCE NO. 1712
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison,
Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Madison, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS:
Section 1:   That the S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Madison, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City of Madison on this 7th day of July, 2009.
                     John W. Hamm III  /s/
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
Sharon Cass    /s/
DEPUTY CLERK
(SEAL)
ORDINANCE NO. 1723
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison,
Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Madison, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS:
Section 1:   That the S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Madison, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City of Madison on this 8th day of June, 2010.
                     John W. Hamm III  /s/
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
Sharon Cass    /s/
DEPUTY CLERK
(SEAL)
ORDINANCE NO. 1734
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Madison,
Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Madison, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS:
Section 1:   That the S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Madison, Illinois as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2:   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Madison, Illinois is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3:   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City of Madison on this 21st day of June, 2011.
                     John W. Hamm III  /s/
                     MAYOR
ATTEST:
Sharon Cass    /s/
CITY CLERK
(SEAL)
   TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY WARDS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Madison, Illinois, shall be
designated as the “Code of Madison, Illinois,” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  The City of Madison, Illinois,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL.  The Council of the City of Madison.
   COUNTY.  Madison County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT.  Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE.  Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   ELECTORS.  Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of the officer, either
generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY,ROAD or STREET.  May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS.  Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter
amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves,
or as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal
nature.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR.  The Mayor of the City of Madison.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE.  The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   OATH.  Includes AFFIRMATION, and SWEAR includes AFFIRM.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON.  Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships,
corporations, joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as
individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS.  Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Madison. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include the persons in the employ
of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as police officers.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes CERTIFIED MAIL and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
REGISTERED MAIL.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS.  The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE.  The State of Illinois.
   STREET.  Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   The proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq., except as otherwise
provided by law.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)
   YEAR.
      (1)   A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
      (2)   The word YEAR alone is equivalent to the expression “Year of Our
Lord.”
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage.  Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded.  If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   (a)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of
any privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment.
         (b)   The investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted,
continued or enforced, and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if
the ordinance had not been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.  The references
shall also include the designee or agent of any officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.  No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:  (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord.
20, passed 1-1-85).  An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to
that statute for further information.  Example:
   § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
      Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this city
for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined not more
than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
Cross-reference:
   Administrative Adjudication, see §§
36.15 et seq.
   Administration and Enforcement, see
Ch. 73
   Enforcement; Hearing Procedure, see §§
150.15 et seq.
CHAPTER 11:  CITY WARDS
Section
   
11.01   Redistricting; city wards
§ 11.01  REDISTRICTING; CITY WARDS.
   (A)   Ward 1.
      (1)   A tract of land being a part of Section 25, Township 3 North, Range
10 West of the Third Principal Meridian, within the corporate limits of the
city more fully described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of McCambridge Avenue and 601
Street; thence west along the centerline of 6th Street to the centerline of
Alton Avenue; thence south along the centerline of Alton Avenue to the
centerline of 4th Street; thence west along the centerline of 4th Street to the
centerline of Ewing Avenue; thence southwesterly along the center line of Ewing
Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of an alley between 3rd Street
and 2nd Street located in Block N of the original plat of the city; thence
northwesterly along the centerline and its northwesterly extension thereof to
the centerline of Madison Avenue; thence northeasterly along the centerline of
Madison Avenue to the centerline of 4th Street; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of 4th Street to the centerline of State Street; thence
northeasterly along the centerline of State Street to the centerline of 7th
Street; thence southeasterly along the centerline of 7th Street to the
centerline of Madison Avenue; thence northeasterly along the centerline of
Madison Avenue to the centerline of 8th Street; thence southeasterly along the
centerline of 10th Street to the centerline of Washington Avenue; thence
northeasterly along the centerline of Washington Avenue to the centerline of
10th Street; thence southeasterly along the centerline of 10th Street to the
centerline of Alton Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Alton Avenue
to the centerline of Plum Street; thence east along the centerline of Plum
Street to the centerline of McCambridge, Avenue; thence south along the
centerline of McCambridge Avenue, to the centerline of 6th Street and the point
of beginning.
      (2)   The above legal description is based on record information and is
not the result of a field survey.
   (B)   Ward 2.
      (1)   A tract of land being a part of Section 30 in Township 3 North,
Range 9 West and a part of Section 24 and 25 in Township 3 North, Range 10
West, of the Third Principal Meridian, within the corporate limits of the city,
more fully described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the north line of Section 30 with the
centerline of Rhodes Street, the point being on the existing corporate limits
of the city; thence southwesterly along the centerline of Rhodes Street to the
centerline of McCambridge Avenue; thence north along the centerline of
McCambridge Avenue to the centerline of Plum Street; thence west along the
centerline of Plum Street to the centerline of Alton Avenue; thence south along
the centerline of Alton Avenue to the centerline of 10th Street; thence
northwesterly along the centerline of 10th Street to the centerline of
Washington Avenue; thence southwesterly along the centerline of Washington
Avenue to the centerline of 8th Street; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of 8th Street to the centerline of Madison Avenue; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of Madison Avenue to the centerline of 7th
Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of 7th Street to the
centerline of State Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of State
Street to a point on the existing corporate limits of the city; thence
easterly, southerly and easterly along the existing corporate limits of the
city to the centerline of Rhodes Street and the point of beginning.
      (2)   The above description is based on record information and is not the
result of a survey.
   (C)   Ward 3.
      (1)   A tract of land being a part of the southeast quarter of Section
25, Township North, Range 10 West of The Third Principal Meridian, within the
corporate limits of the city, more fully described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of McCambridge Avenue with the
centerline of 6th Street; thence south along the centerline of McCambridge
Avenue to the centerline of the alley between 2nd and 3rd Streets located in
Block 11 of 2nd Addition to Madison; thence west along the centerline of the
alley to the centerline of Ewing Avenue; thence northeasterly along the
centerline of Ewing Avenue to the centerline of 4th Street; thence east along
the centerline of 4th Street to the centerline of Alton Avenue; thence north
along the centerline of Alton Avenue to the centerline of 6th Street; thence
east alone the centerline of 6th Street to the centerline of McCambridge Avenue
and the point of beginning.
      (2)   Also, all that part of the existing corporate limits of the city
lying southeasterly of the Norfolk and Western Railroad in Section 36, Township
3 North, Range 9 West of the Third Principal Meridian.
      (3)   Also, all that part of the existing corporate limits of the city
lying in Sections 27, 29, 31, 32, 33 and 34 in Township 3 North, Range 9 West
of the Third Principal Meridian.
      (4)   Also, all that part of the existing corporate limits of the city
lying southerly of the centerline of Rhodes Avenue in Section 30, Township 3
North, Range 9 West of the Third Principal Meridian.
      (5)   Also, all that part of the existing corporate limits of the city
lying in St. Clair County.
      (6)   The above legal description was based on record data and is not the
result of a field survey.
   (D)   Ward 4.
      (1)   All that part of the existing corporate limits of the city lying
west of the following described line:
Beginning at the intersection of the north line of the existing corporate
limits of the city with the centerline of State Street; thence southwesterly
along the centerline of State Street to the centerline of 4th Street; thence
southeasterly along the centerline of 4th Street to the centerline of Madison
Avenue; thence southwesterly along the centerline of Madison Avenue to the
centerline of the alley between 2nd Street and 3rd Street located in Block K of
the original plat of the city; thence southeasterly along the centerline of the
alley and its southeasterly extension thereof to the centerline of Ewing
Avenue; thence east along the centerline of the alley between 2nd and 3rd
Streets in Block 9 of the 2nd Addition to Madison and its easterly extension
thereof to the centerline of McCambridge Avenue; thence south along the
centerline of McCambridge Avenue and its southerly extension thereof to a point
on the southerly line of the existing corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Also, all that part of the existing corporate limits of the city
lying west of the Chain of Rocks Canal.
      (3)   The above legal description is based on record information and is
not the result of a field survey.
(Ord. 1504, passed 10-19-1999)
   TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   TAXATION
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   CODE AND ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
      
37.   CITY POLICIES
      
38.   PERSONNEL
      
39.   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCIES
      
40.   ETHICS
      
41.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30:  CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Order of business
   
30.03   Duties and privileges of Mayor
   
30.04   Duties and privileges of members
   
30.05   Motions and resolutions
   
30.06   Committees; reports
   
30.07   Bills and claims
   
30.08   Second readings
   
30.09   Investigation
   
30.10   Temporary suspension of order of business or rules
   
30.11   Public participation during Council meetings
§ 30.01  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings shall be held at 6:30 p.m. on alternate Tuesdays of each
month.
   (B)   A majority of the Aldermen-elect shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time and compel
absentees to attend any regular or special meeting, by a written citation to
that effect, stating the day and hour of the meeting.  The citation shall be
signed by the Mayor or Aldermen issuing the same and it may be served by the
Chief of Police or any officer authorized to serve the processes in the city,
by reading the same to the absentees.  Any Alderman willfully refusing to obey
the citation shall forfeit $5 to be deducted out of his or her salary and, upon
the repeated refusal to obey the citation, the Aldererson shall be expelled or
his or her office declared vacant.
   (C)   In the absence of Mayor, the Council shall elect one of its members
temporary Chairperson and, in like manner, should the City Clerk be absent from
the meeting, the Council may appoint a Clerk, pro tem.
   (D)   The site and location of the City Hall and Police Department will be
changed to the new City Hall building located at 615 Madison Avenue, Madison,
Illinois.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.02  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   (1)   At the hour appointed for meetings of the Council, the City
Clerk shall proceed to call the role of the members, marking the absentees and
announcing whether a quorum is present.  If a quorum be present, the Council
shall proceed to the business before it.  A majority of the members, exclusive
of the Mayor, shall be necessary to constitute a quorum; less than a quorum may
adjourn and compel the attendance of members.
      (2)   The following shall be the order of business:
         (a)   The reading of the minutes of the proceedings of the last
meeting or meetings, amendments and approval the same;
         (b)   Presentation of claims;
         (c)   Reports of city officers;
         (d)   Reports of standing committees;
         (e)   Reports of special committees;
         (f)   Unfinished business of preceding meeting;
         (g)   New business, including the presentation of petitions,
resolutions and other communications;
         (h)   Miscellaneous business.
   (B)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
without debate.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.03  DUTIES AND PRIVILEGES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide all
questions of order, subject to an appeal to the City Council.  He or she shall
have the deciding vote on all questions upon which the City Council is equally
divided, but not otherwise.
   (B)   While the Mayor is put the question, no member shall walk across or
out of the Council room.
   (C)   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, shall rise from his or
her seat and address himself or herself to the Mayor, but shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (D)   When two or more rise at once, the Mayor shall name the member who is
first to speak.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.04  DUTIES AND PRIVILEGES OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   When a member wishes to present a communication, petition, ordinance
or report, he or she shall rise from his or her place and address the Chair in
the usual form, and having briefly stated the subject of his or her
communication, petition, ordinance or report, ask leave to present the same,
whereupon, the document shall be handed, immediately, to the Clerk to be seen
in full unless otherwise specially ordered and, after the reading, appropriate
action may be taken thereon.
   (B)   No member shall speak more than twice on the same general question
without leave of the Council.
   (C)   A member called to order while speaking shall immediately cease
speaking and sit down unless permitted to explain.  If there be no appeal, the
decision of the Chair shall be conclusive; but if the member appeals from the
decision of the Chair, the City Council shall decide the case without debate.
   (D)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold private discourse,
nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (E)   Each member who shall be present when a question is stated by the
Chair shall vote thereon unless excused by the Council or unless he or she is
directly interested in the question, in which case he or she shall not vote.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.05  MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   No motion shall be put or debated unless it is seconded and no
petition or resolution shall be considered unless it is submitted in writing. 
When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the Chair before debate and
every motion shall be reduced to writing if required by any member of the
Council.
   (B)   After a motion or resolution is stated by the Chair, it shall be in
the possession of the City Council, but it may be withdrawn by the mover and
seconded at any time before decision or amendment.
   (C)   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered on the minutes of
the City Council, the name of the member moving the same shall be entered also.
   (D)   In all cases of the adoption of an ordinance and upon every
proposition to create any liability against the city, or for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money, the ayes and nays shall be taken and entered upon
the record.  In all other cases, if any member requires it, and his or her
motion is seconded, the ayes and nays on any question shall be taken and
entered upon the minutes; but the ayes and nays shall not be taken unless
called for previously to any vote on the question.  All ordinances shall be
read and referred to the proper committee for report and action at the next
meeting unless two-thirds of all the Aldermen elected by vote, after the
reading, consent to consider the ordinance at the same meeting at which it is
introduced.
   (E)   (1)   When a question is under debate, the only motion in order shall
be:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   The previous question;
         (c)   To lay on the table;
         (d)   To postpone indefinitely;
         (e)   To adjourn to a certain day;
         (f)   To refer; and
         (g)   To amend.
      (2)   The motions shall have precedence in the order herein arranged, the
first three to be decided without debate.
   (F)   (1)   A motion to adjourn the City Council shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When any member is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the ayes and nays are being called;
         (c)   While the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion to adjourn simply cannot be amended, but a motion to
adjourn to a given time, may be and is open to debate.
   (G)   When the previous question is moved and put, it shall be in this form:
  “Shall the main question be now put?”  If this is carried, all proposed
amendments and all further motions and debates shall be excluded, and the
question put without delay.
   (H)   A motion to lay on the table, simply, is not debatable, but a motion
to lay on the table and publish, or any other condition, is subject to
amendment and debate.
   (I)   When a motion is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up
again during the same meeting.
   (J)   A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take precedence to a
similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (K)   (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.  A substitute motion,
germane to the subject matter being considered, may be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On a motion to “strike out and insert,” the paragraph to be amended
shall first be read as it stands, the words proposed to be struck out, and
those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it would stand, if so
amended.
   (L)   (1)   A motion may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first meeting hold, thereafter.  A motion for a
reconsideration, being once made and decided in the negative, shall not be
renewed before the next meeting.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who
voted in the affirmative.
      (3)   No question shall be reconsidered more than once, nor shall a vote
to reconsider be reconsidered.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.06  COMMITTEES; REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   All standing committees shall be appointed by the Mayor, and all
special committees shall be appointed by the Mayor, unless otherwise specially
directed by the City Council.
      (2)   The following shall be the standing committees:
         (a)   Finance;
         (b)   Streets and Alleys;
         (c)   Permits and Licenses;
         (d)   Police;
         (e)   Public Grounds and Buildings;
         (f)   Purchasing;
         (g)   Ordinance;
         (h)   Fire, Light and Water;
         (i)   Claims;
         (j)   Printing; and
         (k)   Health and Safety.
      (3)   All committees shall consist of three members each unless some
other special number be specified and the first person named shall be the
Chairperson.
      (4)   Upon the acceptance of a final report of a special committee, the
committee shall be considered discharged without a vote unless otherwise
ordered.
   (B)   (1)   Standing and special committees, to whom references were made,
shall, in all cases, report in writing the state of facts, with their opinion
thereon.
      (2)   All reports of committees shall be addressed “To the City Council
of the City of Madison.”  They, shall briefly describe the matter referred and
the conclusion to which the committee has arrived, which conclusion shall be
summed up in the form of an order, resolution or recommendation.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.07  BILLS AND CLAIMS.
   (A)   All bills and claims against the city shall be referred to some
committee and shall be over until a next meeting of the Council unless the same
shall have been examined by the appropriate committee and payment recommended
by a majority of the committee, in which case, bills and claims may be passed
and allowed, without being referred, at the same meeting at which they are
presented.
   (B)   All motions providing for the expenditure of money shall be in writing
and be referred to the proper committee for due consideration and report.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.08  SECOND READINGS.
   (A)   No ordinance shall be adopted by the City Council at the same meeting
at which it is offered for consideration, but each ordinance shall pass to a
second reading and shall not be adopted at a meeting occurring less than five
days after the meeting at which it was referred.
   (B)   If a motion or resolution to suspend the operation of this rule shall
be adopted by a two-thirds vote of all the members present, then the ordinance
may be adopted on proper motion in the meeting.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.09  INVESTIGATION.
   The Corporation Counsel, in all cases where ordinances have been referred to
him or her for investigation, consideration and to reconstruct to conform to
legal or statutory requirements, shall be required to furnish each member of
the City Council upon request a copy of all ordinances under consideration
which were referred to him or her by the Council.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.10  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF ORDER OF BUSINESS OR RULES.
   The foregoing rules and order of business may be temporarily suspended by
the unanimous consent of all the members present, but shall not be repealed,
altered or amended unless by the concurrence of two-thirds of all the Aldermen
elected.
(Ord. 549, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 1323, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1385, passed
11-18-1997)
§ 30.11  PUBLIC PARTICIPATION DURING COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regulations and protocols for public participation during Council
meetings. The following rules and protocols shall apply to public participation
at meetings of the City Council and any committees thereof.
      (1)   Public participation at City Council or Council Committee meetings
is encouraged. A period of time at any such meeting shall be made available on
the agenda for each meeting.
      (2)   A person who desires to make a comment to the Council shall provide
no less than three days’ notice of their intent to address the Council at any
particular meeting. They should also identify the subject of their address and
they shall (on the day of the meeting) print and sign their name and provide
their residential address on a sheet of paper provided for such purpose.
Preference will be given to the person who has given the three day notice.
Additional preference will be given to residents and/or property owners in the
city.
      (3)   The mayor will determine the order of persons wishing to address
the Council. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum. Conversational tone
and non-vulgar language shall be used by any speaker. The Mayor shall decide
all questions of order.
      (4)   All speakers shall address their remarks to the Mayor.
      (5)   All speakers shall confine their comments to three minutes, unless
additional time is granted by the Mayor. No speaker shall repeat comments made
by a prior speaker. No speaker shall malign, impugn or make contentious
statements. Doing so may subject the speaker to immediate sanction by the
Mayor, up to and including termination of the speaker’s allocated time.
Termination of the speaker’s time may be had at the discretion of the Mayor or
a vote by two thirds of the Council members present at the meeting.
      (6)   Any speaker who intends to use visual aids (photo graphics, charts,
documents, etc.) shall provide nine copies of said items to the City Clerk in
advance of the meeting.
   (B)   Guide to addressing the City Council. The following shall be posted on
the city’s website and on the door leading to the Council Chambers.
      Citizens’ Guide to Addressing the City Council:
         Anyone wishing to address the Mayor or City Council at the agenda item
“Public Comment” shall adhere to the following guidelines, rules and/or
protocols:
         A.   Provide your name, address and signature on the sign-up sheet
provided. (Preference will be given to any person who advises the clerk(s) in
City Hall of their intention to make an address at least three days prior to
the meeting.)
         B.   You may stand and speak upon being recognized or given permission
to address the Council or Mayor after being recognized or given permission.
         C.   Address any and all comments to the Mayor.
         D.   The mayor shall preserve order and decorum. Refrain from
maligning, impugning or making contentious statements. Speak in a
conversational tone and do not use vulgar language.
         E.   After the termination of the “public comment” portion of the
agenda, no person shall be allowed to address the Mayor or Council except with
the permission of the Mayor.
         F.   Any speaker wishing to use a visual aide (photographs, charts,
documents, etc.) shall provide nine copies of said items to the City Clerk in
advance of the meeting.
(Ord. 1835, passed 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 31:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Deputy City Clerk; authority
   
31.02   City Comptroller
   
31.03   Salaries and wages
   
31.04   Prevailing wages for public works employees
Cross-reference:
   City Attorney, see §
32.22
   Corporation Counsel, see §
32.21
   Superintendent of Streets, see §
32.37
§ 31.01  DEPUTY CITY CLERK; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to and in keeping with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 3.1-30-10, the City Clerk is authorized to appoint a Deputy City Clerk.
   (B)   The Deputy City Clerk, so appointed by the City Clerk, is to perform
all of the duties of the Office of City Clerk in keeping and as set forth in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-35-90 and 3.1-35-95.
(Ord. 792, passed 3-7-1967)
§ 31.02  CITY COMPTROLLER.
   (A)   The Comptroller of the city shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the Mayor of the city, except as provided herein, and shall
exercise and be responsible for the performance of, in addition to the duties
heretofore established by statute, prior ordinances of the city, and such other
duties as the Mayor and/or the City Council have or may hereafter assign to the
Comptroller from time to time, the following duties:
      (1)   Attend all regular and special City Council meetings;
      (2)   Attend all City Council committee meetings when requested;
      (3)   Organize and maintain in a retrievable system all financial records
of the city;
      (4)   Receive and account for all monies due or forwarded to the city
from all sources;
      (5)   Separate and maintain accounts for each city fund as directed by
ordinance or as directed by the City Council;
      (6)   Keep all city funds and money in appropriate accounts and
depositories as directed from time to time by resolution, ordinance or law;
      (7)   Insure that all city funds are properly insured by F.D.I.C. or
secured by appropriate other securities as provided by law, as the case may be;
      (8)   Prepare and give monthly reports showing the incomes, disbursements
and beginning of and end of month balances for each account and/or fund of the
city at the first regular Council meeting of every month for the month next
preceding the meeting;
      (9)   Prepare and give an annual report showing the incomes,
disbursements and beginning of and end of year balances for each account and/or
fund of the city at the first regular Council meeting in May for the city’s
fiscal year next preceding the meeting;
      (10)   Prepare and file with County Tax Collector the city’s annual
financial account and/or statement as required by law;
      (11)   Prepare and give proper and appropriate receipts on behalf of the
city to every person paying money to the city for any reason;
      (12)   Prepare and record appropriate liens required by the city’s
ordinances with the Recorder of Deeds of the appropriate county;
      (13)   Process all forms and documents and collect all fees pertaining to
the issuance of licenses or permits required by the city’s ordinances, such as
but not limited to business licenses, liquor licenses, building permits and the
like;
      (14)   Process all forms and documents and collect all fees pertaining to
trash fees;
      (15)   Issue and/or pay out all appropriate warrants as authorized by the
city;
      (16)   Establish and supervise a petty cash drawer for city use;
      (17)   Establish and maintain appropriate and current files and records
for each employee and each department, showing such things as, but not limited
to job description, pay scale, IMRF, healthcare insurance, sick leave, vacation
time, compensation time and the like for each city employee and department;
      (18)   Properly and promptly pay all officers and employees their earned
or entitled salaries, wages, reimbursements or other benefits as authorized by
the city;
      (19)   Establish and maintain appropriate files and records for all city
insurance matters; and
      (20)   Assume the duties of and act as the Assistant City Clerk pursuant
to the control and supervision of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Comptroller shall possess at a minimum a Bachelor of Arts or
Science Degree in Accounting or Finance and have at least three years of
experience with computer-generated accounting systems.  The person appointed to
the position of Comptroller is not required to be, become or remain a resident
of the city in order to serve.
(Ord. 1314, passed 7-2-1996; Am. Ord. 1360, passed 5-6-1997)
§ 31.03  SALARIES AND WAGES.
   The salaries and wages of the officers and employees of the city as set
shall be established, restated, and/or increased, as the case may be, to the
annual and/or hourly rate, except as otherwise stated, following the job
description and their name according to the schedule attached to Ordinance 1849
or as it may be amended from time to time by the Council, and incorporated by
reference.  That the officers and employees are not entitled to any longevity
pay as same has heretofore, by prior ordinances, been included into and made a
part of their annual and/or hourly rate.
(Ord. 1582, passed 7-16-2002; Am. Ord. 1587, passed 9-10-2002; Am. Ord. 1704,
passed 7-22-2008; Am. Ord. 1742, passed 2-14-2012; Am. Ord. 1755, passed 5-7-
2013; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 5-21-2014; Am. Ord. 1777, passed 5-19-2015; Am.
Ord. 1800, passed 10-18-2016; Am. Ord. 1804, passed 5-2-2017; Am. Ord. 1806,
passed 7-11-2017; Am. Ord. 1812, passed 9-5-2017; Am. Ord. 1819, passed 5-29-
2018; Am. Ord. 1822, passed 7-24-2018; Am. Ord. 1823, passed 8-7-2018; Am. Ord.
1849, passed 4-28-2020)
§ 31.04  PREVAILING WAGES FOR PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “An act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by State, County, City
or any public body or any political subdivision or by any one under contract
for public works,” approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing
rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers
engaged in construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the
City of Madison is hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of
wages for construction work in the Madison County area as determined by the
Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of July of the current year, a
copy of that determination being attached to Ordinance 1851, passed June 8,
2020 and incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois shall supersede the Department’s July determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the City of Madison. The
definition of any terms appearing in this section which are also used in
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the City of Madison to the extent required by the
aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The City Clerk of the City of Madison shall publicly post or keep
available for inspection by any interested party in the main office of the City
of Madison this determination or of the current revised determination of
prevailing rates of wages then in effect shall be attached to all contract
specifications.
   (D)   The City Clerk of the City of Madison shall mail a copy of this
determination to any employer, to any association of employers, and to any
person or association of employees who have filed their names and addresses,
requesting copies of any determination stating the particular rates and the
particular class of workers whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The City Clerk of the City of Madison shall promptly file a certified
copy of this section with both the Secretary of State Index Division and the
Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
   (F)   The City Clerk of the City of Madison shall cause to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the area a copy of this section, and
such publication shall constitute notice that the determination is effective
and that this is the determination of this public body.
(Ord. 1705, passed 8-5-2008; Am. Ord. 1730, passed 8-3-2010; Am. Ord. 1737,
passed 7-5-2011; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 7-17-2012; Am. Ord. 1756, passed 6-4-
2013; Am. Ord. 1763, passed 7-1-2014; Am. Ord. 1778, passed 7-14-2015; Am. Ord.
1796, passed 7-26-2016; Am. Ord. 1806, passed 7-11-2017; Am. Ord. 1812, passed
9-5-2017; Am. Ord. 1823, passed 8-7-2018; Am. Ord. 1832, passed 6-25-2019; Am.
Ord. 1851, passed 6-8-2020)
CHAPTER 32:  DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Membership; terms of office
   
32.03   Procedure
   
32.04   Powers and duties
   
32.05   Land subdivision or re-subdivision; official map
   
32.06   Improvements
   
32.07   Expenditures
Law Department
   
32.20   Establishment; creation of offices
   
32.21   Corporation Counsel
   
32.22   City Attorney
   
32.23   Reports
Department of Streets
   
32.35   Establishment
   
32.36   Creation of offices
   
32.37   Superintendent of Streets; bond; duties; sewer responsibilities
   
32.38   Disposition of property
   
32.39   Building material in streets; permission
   
32.40   Maintenance and repair; protection
   
32.41   Payment of funds to city
   
32.42   Full record to be kept
   
32.43   Employment of laborers
   
32.44   Power of arrest
   
32.45   Superintendent; removal from office
Board of Health
   
32.60   Membership
   
32.61   Powers of Board
   
32.62   Notice to abate
   
32.63   Contagious diseases; report and regulations
   
32.64   Resistance prohibited
   
32.65   Brining diseased persons into city
   
32.66   Premises to be clean, disinfected and the like
   
32.67   Vaccination
   
32.68   Fumigation
   
32.69   Police assistance
   
32.70   Letting unfit buildings prohibited
   
32.71   Filth in alley; streets to be kept clean
   
32.72   Offensive trades and businesses
   
32.73   Nuisances
   
32.74   Stables
   
32.75   Drugs
   
32.76   Unwholesome food or drinks
   
32.77   Expectorating on sidewalk
   
32.78   Penalty
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01  PURPOSE.
   In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive city plan for the guidance, direction and control of the growth
and development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous territory not more
than 1 miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any municipality,
the Plan Commission is hereby created under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, and as amended.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
§ 32.02  MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, citizens of the
city, appointed by the Mayor, on the basis of their particular fitness for
their duty on the Plan Commission and subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (B)   Members shall serve for a period of three years.  Vacancies shall be
filled by appointments for unexpired terms only.  All members of the Commission
shall serve without compensation, except that, if the City Council deems it
advisable, they may receive compensation as may be fixed from time to time by
the City Council and provided for in the Appropriation Ordinance.  The Mayor,
Corporation Counsel and City Engineer shall serve as ex-officio members of the
Commission and shall serve for the terms of their elective and appointive
office.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
§ 32.03  PROCEDURE.
   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Plan Commission
shall meet, organize, elect officers as it may deem necessary and adopt and,
later, change or alter, rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with city ordinances and state laws.  The Commission shall keep
written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection.  The Commission shall also file an annual report with the Mayor and
City Council setting forth its transactions and recommendations.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
§ 32.04  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous
unincorporated territory not more than 1 miles beyond the corporate limits of
the city and not included in any other municipality;  (The plan may be adopted
in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each of which, when
adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the
city.  The plan shall be advisory, except as to the part thereof as has been
implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the City Council.  All requirements
for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the County Recorder of
Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances with the Municipal Clerk shall be
complied with, as provided for by law.  To provide for the health, safety,
comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the city and contiguous
territory, the plan or plans shall establish reasonable standards of design for
subdivisions and for re-subdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to
redevelopment in respect to public improvements, as herein defined, and shall
establish reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course and
surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service
facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks, playgrounds,
school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water
drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers and sewage collection
and treatment.  The requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only
when adopted by ordinance.)
   (B)   To designate land suitable for annexation to the municipality and the
recommended zoning classification for the land upon annexation;
   (C)   To recommend to the City Council, from time to time, changes in the
comprehensive plan or any part thereof, as may be deemed necessary;
   (D)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time, plans
and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, or parts thereof,
to further the making of the improvements and generally to promote the
realization of the official comprehensive plan;
   (F)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
   (G)   To co-operate with municipal or regional planning commissions and
other agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
   (H)   To exercise other powers germane to the powers granted under ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, and as amended, as may be conferred by the City Council.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
§ 32.05  LAND SUBDIVISION OR RE-SUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   (1)   At any time or times before or after the formal adoption of the
official comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may
be designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan, or one or snore separate geographical
or functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within 1 miles from the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption
with the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances,
including the official map, with the Municipal Clerk shall be complied with as
provided for by law.
   (B)   No map or plat of any subdivision or re-subdivision presented for
record affecting land within the corporate limits of the city or within
contiguous territory which is not more than 1 miles beyond the corporate limits
shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown
thereon provides for standards of design, and standards governing streets,
alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities, street lights, public
grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm and flood
water runoff channels and basins, water supply and distribution, sanitary
sewers and sewage collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable
requirements of the ordinances, including the official map.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
§ 32.06  IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall furnish the Plan Commission, for its
consideration, a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public
improvements of any nature.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may report in relation thereto if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the City Council.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
§ 32.07  EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Commission may, at the discretion of the City Council, employ a
paid secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by the City Council from the public funds.
   (B)   If the Plan Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical
advice or services, it may be done upon authority from the City Council and
appropriations by the City Council therefore.
(Ord. 782, passed 11-30-1965)
LAW DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20  ESTABLISHMENT; CREATION OF OFFICES.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a department of the municipal
government of the city, which shall be known as the Law Department and shall
consist of the Corporation Counsel and the City Attorney.
   (B)   The following executive offices of the city are hereby created and
established, to-wit:
      (1)   The Office of Corporation Counsel; and
      (2)   The Office of City Attorney.
   (C)   The Corporation Counsel and the City Attorney shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council, annually, at the first regular
meeting in May of each year, or as soon thereafter as may be convenient, and
each of the officers shall hold his or her office for a term as he or she may
be appointed, not extending beyond the end of the fiscal year of the city.
   (D)   Should a vacancy occur in the Offices of Corporation Counsel or City
Attorney, caused by death, resignation or for other reason, the Mayor, at any
meeting of the City Council, after the vacancy shall occur, by and with the
advice and consent of the Council, may appoint any qualified person to fill the
vacancy for the unexpired term.
   (E)   The Corporation Counsel and the City Attorney shall be citizens of the
United States, qualified electors of the city and licensed to practice law in
the courts of the state.
   (F)   The Corporation Counsel and the City Attorney shall be subject to
removal as provided by law and the ordinances of the city.  If either of the
officers ceases to perform the duties of his or her office by reason of death,
permanent physical or mental disability, conviction of a disqualifying crime or
dismissal from or abandonment of office, the Mayor may appoint a temporary
successor to the officer.
   (G)   The salary of the Corporation Counsel and of the City Attorney shall
be fixed at an amount as may be appropriated therefor in the annual
appropriation ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 680, passed 5-5-1953)
§ 32.21  CORPORATION COUNSEL.
   (A)   (1)   The Corporation Counsel shall, when required, advise the City
Council, or any of its committees, or any city officer, in relation to all
matters of law arising in which the interests of the city are involved.  He or
she shall act as attorney for the Playground and Recreation Board, the Library
Board, the Board of Trustees of the city’s Police Pension Fund, the Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners and the Board of Local Improvements and shall
attend any meetings of the boards when requested.
      (2)   He or she shall attend to all legal matters incident to the levying
and collection of any tax or special assessment and shall examine all
assessment rolls and tax lists and all proceedings in reference to the
assessment and collection of taxes and assessments for public improvements and
approve the same.
      (3)   He or she shall draft all ordinances, bonds, contracts,
resolutions, leases, conveyances or other instruments of writing on behalf of
the city or examine and approve the same when required by the City Council for
any of its committees or the Mayor.  He or she shall furnish, on request,
written legal opinions upon any subject concerning city government to the
Mayor, the City Council or the head of any city department or board.
      (4)   He or she shall prosecute or defend, on behalf of the city, in all
cases necessary to be instituted or originating in any court of record in which
the interests of the city, or the official acts of any officer or agent of the
city are involved.  He or she shall report to the City Council and the Mayor
all cases in which he or she shall deem it expedient to take an appeal or writ
of error in behalf of the city, but no appeal or writ of error shall be taken
without the consent of the City Council.
      (5)   He or she shall attend to all legal matters incident to the
operation of the city’s Kings Highway Chain of Rocks Bridge.
      (6)   He or she shall attend all regular meetings of the City Council
unless excused by the Mayor and, on request, all special meetings of the same.
      (7)   He or she shall also perform other professional services incident
to his or her office as may be required by the City Council or the Mayor.
   (B)   The Corporation Counsel is hereby authorized, and it is made his or
her duty, to attend any sale of property to enforce the collection of any tax
or special assessment in which the city is interested, and in default of other
bidders, to bid at the sale in behalf of the city, or the Corporation Counsel
may, in his or her discretion, in default of bidders, withdraw from collection
at the sale any special assessment or installment thereof levied by it on any
lot, parcel of land or property subject to sale, but the withdrawal from
collection shall not operate to cancel the assessment or impair the lien of the
city and the assessment shall be and remain delinquent and payable at the
office of the Municipal Collector or County Clerk, with all fees, costs,
penalties, interest and charges that have accrued thereon, and the lot, parcel
of land or property may be re-advertised and resold at any subsequent tax sale
for the delinquent special assessments or installments thereof, as provided by
statute.
(Ord. 680, passed 5-5-1953)
§ 32.22  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to act as the legal
advisor of the city in all matters concerning the legal and business interests
of the city, except as to such matters and duties as are imposed upon or
appertain to the Office of Corporation Counsel, and furnish his or her written
opinion upon questions of law when called upon to do so by the Mayor or the
City Council.  He or she shall keep a docket of all actions, suits or claims
for or against the city, noting their progress and judgment therein.
      (2)   He or she shall, when his or her services are necessary, prosecute
all suits brought in the name of the city before the Police Magistrate, any
Justice of the Peace or other magistrate, for the recovery of any fine,
forfeiture, penalty, demand or claim whatever, but he or she shall not be
required to bring or prosecute any suit in any case when he or she and the
court may be satisfied that the interests of the public or the city will not be
subscribed thereby, or in any case where he or she and the court may be
satisfied that the complaint is made maliciously, vexatiously or without
probable cause.  He or she shall defend the city in all actions or suits
brought against it, or any of the officers thereof, in courts not of record
wherein the rights, ordinances, orders or acts of the city are brought in
question.
      (3)   It shall be his or her duty to draft all legal instruments which
may be required by ordinance or otherwise, upon request so to do by the Mayor
or the City Council.  He or she shall cause executions to issue upon all
judgments in favor of the city in courts not of record and cause the proper
officer to attend to their prompt collection.  He or she shall report to the
Council or the Mayor all cases in which he or she shall deem it expedient to
take an appeal on behalf of the city, but no appeal shall be taken without the
consent of the Mayor or the City Council, and he or she shall prosecute and
defend cases as may be appealed from courts not of record or any appellate
court.
      (4)   (a)   He or she shall co-operate with the Mayor and all officers of
the city in the enforcement of the criminal laws of the state and the
ordinances of the city.
         (b)   He or she shall attend all regular meetings of the City Council
unless excused by the Mayor and, on request, all special meetings of the same.
      (5)   He or she shall also perform other professional services incident
to his or her office, as may be required by the City Council or the Mayor.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall render aid or assistance to the Corporation
Counsel in his or her performance of the duties of that office, as may be
requested by the Mayor, City Council or the Corporation Counsel.
(Ord. 680, passed 5-5-1953)
§ 32.23  REPORTS.
   (A)   The Corporation Counsel and the City Attorney shall each report to the
City Council annually at its first regular meeting in May of each year, the
status or disposition of all cases requiring their attention during the
preceding fiscal year of the city in which the city was a party, and they shall
each make other explanatory remarks and recommendations relative to other legal
business of the city, as they may deem proper to the end that the Mayor and the
City Council may be kept fully advised as to the legal affairs of the city.
   (B)   The City Council may at any time request a report from the Corporation
Counsel or the City Attorney, in writing or otherwise, relative to any legal
business of interest to the city, the status of any pending litigation in which
the city is a party or is interested, and as to any other matter connected with
the duties of their respective offices, and the report shall be furnished by
the officer requested at the next regular meeting of the City Council following
the request.
(Ord. 680, passed 5-5-1953)
DEPARTMENT OF STREETS
§ 32.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a department of the municipal
government of the city, which shall be known as the Street Department and,
until otherwise provided, shall consist of the Superintendent of Streets and
other officers and employees as may be assigned thereto.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.36  CREATION OF OFFICES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Superintendent of Streets, an
executive office of the city.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Streets shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, annually, at the first regular
meeting in May of each year, or as soon thereafter as convenient, and shall
hold his or her office for the time as he or she may be appointed, not
extending beyond the fiscal year of the city or until his or her successor has
been appointed and has qualified.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.37  SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS; BOND; DUTIES; SEWER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Bond.  The Superintendent of Streets, before entering upon the duties
of the office, shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $1,000 with
good and sufficient surety to be approved by the City Council, conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of the Office of Superintendent of
Streets. The City Council shall have the power, at any time, to require
additional bond and additional sureties.
   (B)   Duties.  The Superintendent of Streets is hereby vested, under
supervision of the Mayor and the Committee on Streets and Alleys, with the
general charge of the streets, alleys and public grounds of the city.  It is
hereby made his or her duty to order the immediate removal of any article or
thing whatever that may encumber any street, alley, sidewalk, street crossing
or any public grounds, and if the article or thing is not removed within a
reasonable time after verbal or written notice to the owner or possessor of the
article or thing, or if the person cannot be found, the Superintendent shall
remove the same at the cost of the owner or person and may prosecute the
offender as otherwise provided by ordinance.
   (C)   Sewer responsibilities.
      (1)   (a)   The Superintendent of Streets is hereby vested, under
supervision of the Mayor and the Committee on Streets and Alleys, with the
general charge of the sewers, drains, catch basins and the pumping station of
the city, and the enforcement of all ordinances relating to sewers.
         (b)   He or she shall keep all sewers, gutters, catch basins and
culverts open and in good repair and clear of all obstructions.  He or she
shall confer with and secure the concurrence of the Mayor and the Committee on
Streets and Alleys before making any extensive repairs or improvements.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Streets shall make reports at the time as the
City Council may deem necessary of all of his or her acts and doings in and
about his or her work under his or her supervision and other matters and
transactions as he or she may deem proper to make or the City Council may
require.  He or she shall make all other reports required by law and city
ordinance.
      (3)   The Superintendent of Streets shall keep a full record or list of
all the working tools or other property in his or her possession belonging to
the city and shall be responsible for the safe-keeping of the same and shall
deliver up to his or her successor in office or to the Council the record or
list, tools and other property and shall take a receipt therefor, which receipt
shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
      (4)   The Superintendent shall perform such other duties as designated
from time to time by the Council.
      (5)   The Superintendent may be removed from office at any time by the
Mayor or Council for failure to execute the duties of his or her office
faithfully and accurately and for any violations of the provisions hereof, of
city ordinance or of state law appertaining to the office.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 601,
passed 5-13-1947)
§ 32.38  DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   Any article or thing which may be removed in accordance with the preceding
section, may be advertised and sold within ten days unless the same shall be
sooner redeemed by the owner or possessor on payment of all costs.  Either the
Superintendent of Streets or Chief of Police may make the sale and shall, after
making the sale, pay the proceeds into the City Treasury, and furnish the
Comptroller with a statement of the property sold and the amount received
therefor; the balance if any, after deducting costs, shall be paid to any
person furnishing to the Mayor satisfactory proofs of ownership of the property
sold.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.39  BUILDING MATERIAL IN STREETS; PERMISSION.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Streets shall not grant permission to place or
keep any building material in any part of the streets or alleys for a longer
period than one month, except by consent of the Mayor, and the permit shall not
authorize the obstruction of more than one-half of the street or sidewalk,
except in cases of urgent necessity, and then only by special authority from
the City Council.
   (B)   The permission shall be deemed void as to any person who shall extend
the obstruction beyond the limitations described in the permit.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.40  MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR; PROTECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent of Streets shall keep the streets and
crossings in good repair.  He or she shall keep all sewers, gutters and
culverts open and in repair, and shall keep weeds down along any street or
sidewalk when necessary.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed to relieve the owner or
occupant of premises in the city from keeping the weeds down and other
obstructions off the sidewalk in front of his or her premises.
   (B)   (1)   The Superintendent of Streets shall take special care to protect
and preserve the public property and, upon the alarm of fire, he or she shall
be prompt in his or her attendance and use such means as he or she deems best
to preserve the sidewalks and other property from destruction.
      (2)   He or she shall see that the grades of streets, established by the
city, are preserved and that no stone or other monument for perpetuating
grades, corners or lines of any lot, street or sidewalk is removed from its
established place.
      (3)   He or she shall remove and abate any nuisance that may exist at the
cost of the party causing or suffering the same, if known, otherwise at the
expense of the city.
      (4)   He or she shall report to the Mayor or Chief of Police all
violations of the city ordinances that may come to his or her knowledge.
   (C)   When it shall be necessary, in grading or repairing any street or
alley within the city, to remove the earth from any street or alley for the
purpose, and it can be done without injury to the property adjoining, the
Superintendent of Streets, under direction of the Committee on Streets and
Alleys, is hereby authorized to cause the earth to be removed to a place as he
or she may deem for the best interest of the city.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets, under the
direction of the Mayor and of the Committee on Streets and Alleys, to open and
keep in good repair and clear of all obstructions, all streets, alleys, avenues
and sidewalks in the city, superintend all repairs and improvements upon them
ordered by the City Council or, in his or her judgment, necessary to be made.
      (2)   He or she shall confer with and secure the concurrence of the Mayor
and the Committee on Streets and Alleys before making any extensive repairs or
improvements.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.41  PAYMENT OF FUNDS TO CITY.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall promptly pay over to the Comptroller
money or funds belonging to the city as may come into his or her hands and
shall make reports at the times as the City Council may deem necessary, of all
his or her acts and doings in and about the work under his or her supervision
and other transactions as he or she may deem proper to make or the City Council
may require.  He or she shall make all other reports required by law and the
city ordinances.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.42  FULL RECORD TO BE KEPT.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall keep a full record or list of all the
working tools or other property in his or her possession belonging to the city,
shall be responsible for the safe-keeping of the same, shall deliver up to his
or her successor in office or to the Council the record or list of tools and
other property and shall take a receipt therefor, which receipt shall be filed
in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.43  EMPLOYMENT OF LABORERS.
   The Superintendent may, by authority of the Mayor or of the City Council,
employ a number of laborers, forepersons, trucks and vehicles as shall be
necessary for the cleaning and repairing of the streets and alleys and
performing and carrying out the duties of his or her office and at such prices
as shall be fixed by the City Council.  He or she shall oversee and direct the
street laborers and workpersons and require them to labor faithfully and shall
keep, in a suitable book, a correct account of their time.  He or she shall
also supervise all connections or private drains or sewers with the public
sewers and shall see that the same are made in a manner that no injury is done
to the public sewer.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.44  POWER OF ARREST.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall have the power to arrest, without
process, in the same manner as police officers, all persons who may be found
violating any ordinance in relation to the streets, alleys, sidewalks, public
grounds or public property.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
§ 32.45  SUPERINTENDENT; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Superintendent of Streets may be removed from office at any time by the
Mayor or by the City Council for failure to execute the duties of his or her
office faithfully and accurately and for any violations of the provisions
hereof or of any ordinances of the city or the statutes of the state
appertaining to the office.
(Ord. 551, passed 6-16-1942; Am. Ord. 576, passed 6-16-1942)
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 32.60  MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There shall be and is hereby created in the city a Board of Health. 
The members of the Board of Health shall be the Mayor, City Health Officer,
Assistant City Health Officer, Chairperson of the Health and Safety Committee
of the City Council, the Chief of Police and the City Clerk, who shall be
Secretary of the Board.
   (B)   (1)   The City Health Officer and the Assistant City Health Officer
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, and
shall receive compensation for the faithful performance of their duties as may
from time to time be provided in the annual appropriation ordinance of the
city.
      (2)   The Assistant City Health Officer shall have all the rights, power,
duties and authority as is vested in the City Health Officer by this subchapter
and all other ordinances of the city and, in addition thereto, shall faithfully
perform all other duties with regard to the public health, safety and comfort
as may from time to time be delegated and as assigned to him or her by the
Mayor and/or the City Council.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942; Am. Ord. 646, passed 2-13-1951)
§ 32.61  POWERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Health shall have control over and prescribe rules and
regulations concerning health, sanitation and food measures in the City of
Madison, Illinois, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Health at all times
to see that all business is conducted with due regard to the public health and
comfort, and to request the revocation of any licenses which it may deem
necessary for the proper preservation of the public health and comfort. It
shall have and exercise general supervision over the sanitary condition of the
city.
   (B)   The Board of Health shall enforce all the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city in relation to the sanitary regulation of the city, and
cause all nuisances to be abated with all reasonable promptness. And for the
purpose of carrying out the foregoing requirements any member of the Board of
Health shall be permitted to enter into any house, store or other building, or
premises, in order to make a thorough examination of cellars, vaults, sinks or
drains, and to cause floors to be raised, if the Board of Health shall deem it
necessary; and to cause all dead animals or other nauseous and unwholesome
things or substances to be buried or removed, or disposed of as the Board of
Health may direct.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.62  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   In order to carry out the provisions of the foregoing section, it shall be
the duty of the City Health Officer to serve a notice upon the owner, occupant
or agent of any lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be
found, or who may be the owner or cause of such, require him or her to abate
the same within reasonable time. It shall not be necessary in any case for the
City Health Officer to specify in such notice the manner in which any nuisance
shall be abated, unless he or she shall deem it advisable so to do; such notice
may be served by any officer of the city, and if such owner, occupant or agent
shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order within the time specified, he
or she shall be subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $50 for
every such violation; and it shall be the duty of the City Health Officer, upon
the expiration of the time specified in the notice, to cause such nuisance to
be abated, whenever the owner, occupant or agent of the premises in or upon
which any nuisance may be found is unknown or cannot be found, the City Health
Officer shall proceed to abate the same without notice; and in either case the
expense of such abatement shall be collected from the person or persons who may
have created, continued and suffered such nuisance to exist.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.63  CONTAGIOUS DISEASES; REPORT AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Health or a majority of such Board shall have power, upon
the appearance of smallpox, cholera or any other contagious disease, within the
city limits, for the purpose of preventing the spread of any such disease, to
close public or private schools; to prevent the assemblage of public meetings;
to close any house to the public where such disease exists; to fence up the
streets in the infected neighborhood; to provide regulations by which infected
families may be provided with necessary supplies; to prevent the occupants of
any house where such disease is located from going about the city, and to
require such occupants to be kept and confined within their respective
dwellings, or places of abode, or place to which they have been removed, so
long as there is danger of transmitting the disease; to prevent physicians from
visiting patients so infected, without taking necessary precaution to prevent
the spread of the disease; to give notice, by placards, to the public, of the
existence at any house of the disease, and to warn the public to avoid the
same, and to provide a suitable place and cause any person so afflicted to be
removed to the same.
   (B)   Every physician who shall visit or be called to visit any person in
the city afflicted with smallpox, or any other contagious or infectious
disease, shall forthwith report the same within eight hours, in writing, to the
City Health Officer describing the locality of the patient, so that he or she
may be easily found, and upon failure to do so, shall be fined not less than $5
nor more than $200.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer receiving notice from
any physician, or from any other person, that any person is afflicted with any
contagious or infectious disease to immediately inform the Mayor thereof; it
shall be the duty of the City Health Officer, upon receipt of such information
from any source, to cause suitable notices with the name and kind of the
disease printed or written thereon in large, plain letters, to be posted upon
or near the building or place where such contagious or infectious disease
exists, in two conspicuous places and have such notices kept up during the
prevalence of such disease. If any person or persons shall deface, alter,
mutilate, destroy or tear down such notice, without permission of the City
Health Officer, such person or persons shall be liable for each offense to pay
a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $200; the occupant of any house upon
which such notice shall be placed or posted, as aforesaid, shall be held
responsible for the removal of the same, and if the same shall be removed
without permission of the City Health Officer, such occupant shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $200, unless he or she shall notify
the City Health Officer within 12 hours after such removal.
   (D)   All persons having smallpox, or any other contagious or infectious
disease, whether residing within the city or not, are hereby forbidden and
prohibited from going about within the city; nor shall any person who has been
knowingly exposed to, or is afflicted with any such disease, be allowed to come
into the city while in danger of spreading such disease, and whoever violates
this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200.
   (E)   That it shall be the duty of each and every practicing physician in
the city to report in writing to the City Health Officer the death of any of
his patients who shall have died in the city of contagious or infectious
disease within 24 hours thereafter, and to state in such report the specific
name and type of such disease.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of each and every physician or other person to
report to the City Health Officer immediately after he or she has discovered
the same, the name and place of residence of any person in the city who is
suffering from tuberculosis, smallpox, cholera, yellow fever, scarlet fever,
diphtheria, membranous croup, or other contagious disease, also typhoid fever
and cerebrospinal fever.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.64  RESISTANCE PROHIBITED.
   Whoever shall oppose, or resist, or counsel, advise, aid, or abet any other
person to oppose or resist any member of the Board of Health, or any officer of
the city, in the discharge of his duty, in relation to the provisions of this
subchapter or, whoever shall abet or encourage any violation hereof, shall upon
conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined not less than $3 nor
more than $200.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.65  BRINING DISEASED PERSONS INTO CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to bring or cause to be
brought into the city limits for any purpose whatever, any person or persons
afflicted with smallpox or any other infectious or contagious disease. Whoever
violates this section shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $200.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.66  PREMISES TO BE CLEAN, DISINFECTED AND THE LIKE.
   The Board of Health shall have power to cause any house or any premises to
be cleaned, disinfected, or closed to visitors, and prevent persons from
resorting thereto while any person is laboring under any pestilential or
infectious disease; it may by an order in writing, direct any nuisance to be
abated, or unwholesome matter or substance, dirt or filth to be removed from
any house or premises, and may prescribe the time and mode of doing so, and
take any measure it may deem necessary and proper to prevent the spread of any
infectious pestilential or epidemic disease.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.67  VACCINATION.
   The Board of Health may from time to time take such measures as they may
deem necessary to prevent the spread of smallpox by issuing an order requiring
all persons in the city, or any part thereof, to be vaccinated within such time
as the Board shall prescribe, and all persons refusing or neglecting to obey
such order, shall be fined in any sum not less than $3 nor more than $20 for
each offense; provided, all persons showing a certificate of exemption from a
qualified, practicing physician shall not be required to comply herewith.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.68  FUMIGATION.
   The owner or keeper of any hotel, boarding house or lodging house, and the
owner, agent of the owner and the lessee of any house, or part thereof, shall,
whenever any person in such house is sick of fever, or of any infectious or
pestilential or contagious disease and such sickness is known to such owner,
keeper, agent or lessee, give immediate notice thereof to the City Health
Officer, and thereupon the City Health Officer shall cause the same to be
inspected, and may, if necessary, cause the same to be immediately cleansed or
disinfected at the expense of the owner, in such manner as he or she may deem
necessary and effectual; and he or she may also cause the blankets, bedding and
bed clothes used by such sick person to be thoroughly cleansed, scoured and
fumigated; or in extreme cases, to be destroyed.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.69  POLICE ASSISTANCE.
   The Police Force of the city shall at all times serve notices and render all
such services to the Board of Health as it may request, and shall report to the
City Health Officer all nuisances it may detect and shall investigate all
complaints of nuisances which may be reported to them, and report the same to
the City Health Officer, if in their judgment they are nuisances.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.70  LETTING UNFIT BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to lease,
let, permit the occupancy of, or permit the continuation of the occupancy of
any building or of any portion thereof used for human habitation, unless such
building or structure or portion thereof be free from unclean and unsanitary
conditions as defined in the subsequent sections of this subchapter, and unless
the provisions of the subsequent sections are complied with.
   (B)   Any structure or building or any portion thereof used for human
habitation shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition by
reason of any portion of such building being infected with a communicable
disease, or by reason of the absence therein or thereon of toilet facilities as
required by laws or ordinance, or by reason of the known presence of sewer gas
therein or thereon. Any structure or building or any portion thereof used for
human habitation shall be deemed to be in an unclean and unsanitary condition
when unfit for human habitation or in a condition dangerous or harmful to the
lives or health of the occupants by reason of the inhabited portion of the
house being damp or wet, or by reason of such lack of repair, or by reason of
such accumulation of dirt, filth, litter, refuse or other offensive or
dangerous substances or liquids, or by reason of such defects in or lack of
repair of or improper use of the drainage, plumbing or ventilation, or by
reason of the existence on the premises of such a nuisance or other condition
as is likely to cause sickness among the occupants.
   (C)   Any structure or building or any portion thereof used for human
habitation which is in an unclean condition is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (D)   Whenever the Board of Health of the City of Madison ascertains from
examination or reports or otherwise that a public nuisance exists as defined in
divisions (A) and (B) above in or upon any structure or building or any portion
thereof, and serves notice upon the owner of such house, or his lessee or
agent; or the person in possession, charge, or control thereof, directing him
to abate such nuisance and remove the unclean or unsanitary conditions within
such reasonable time as may be fixed by the Board of Health and specified in
the notice, it shall then be the duty of such owner, agent or person to abate
such nuisance within such time.
   (E)   Whenever such abatement does not take place within such time, or
whenever in the opinion of the Board of Health, such abatement is impossible or
impracticable without an immediate vacation of the house or portion thereof,
and the Board of Health serves notice upon the owner, lessee, agent or person
in possession, charge, or control thereof to vacate or cause the vacation of
such house or portion thereof designated in the notice, then it shall be the
duty of such owner, lessee, agent or person to vacate or cause the vacation of
such house or portion thereof within 20 days from date of the service of such
notice, or within a shorter time (not less than 24 hours in any case) as may be
specified in the notice.
   (F)   Whenever either in addition to or without the service of the notice
the Board of Health is of the opinion that such nuisance can be abated by a
tenant or other occupant of such house or portion thereof, and such notices,
either for the abatement of the nuisance or vacation of the premises are served
upon such tenant or other occupant, then it shall be the duty of such tenant or
other occupant to comply with the terms of such notices and to abate the
nuisance or vacate the premises accordingly.
   (G)   After any such notice or order of vacation it shall be unlawful to
occupy or permit the occupancy of such premises or portion thereof until such
nuisance shall have been completely abated and such building or portion thereof
shall have been rendered clean and sanitary in accordance with the terms of the
notice of the Board of Health. When there is no owner, agent, lessee or person
in charge, possession or control who is a resident or can be served in the City
of Madison, then personal service may be had by registered letter, or if the
address of the owner, lessee, or person in charge or control be unknown or
service has not been secured by registered letter after effort to do so, notice
by publication once a week for two consecutive weeks in any newspaper of
general circulation in the City of Madison or posting or attaching to or on the
outside of the structure or building a copy of the notice or order
consecutively for two weeks, shall have the same effect as service within the
city.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.71  FILTH IN ALLEY; STREETS TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   (A)   That no person or persons shall throw, place or deposit, or cause to
be thrown, placed or deposited, any dung, carrion, dead animal, offal, or
putrid or unwholesome substance, or the contents of any privy upon any street,
alley or public grounds, or upon any lot within the limits of the city.
   (B)   That no swill, brine, urine of animals or other offensive animal
substance, nor any stinking, noxious or other filthy matter of any kind shall
by any person be allowed to run or fall from out of any building, vehicle or
erection into or upon any street or public place, or be taken or put therein,
save as elsewhere provided.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.72  OFFENSIVE TRADES AND BUSINESSES.
   That no person shall permit or have any offensive water or other liquid or
substance on his premises or grounds to the prejudice of life or health,
whether for the use in any trade or otherwise; and no establishment or place of
business for tanning, dressing hides or leathers or for carrying on any
offensive or noisome trade or business, shall hereafter be opened, started or
established in the city without a permit from the Council. And every such
establishment now existing shall be kept clean or wholesome, and be so
conducted in every particular as not to be offensive or prejudicial to life of
health.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.73  NUISANCES.
   That no part of the contents of or substances from any sink, privy, or
cesspool, nor any manure, ashes, garbage, offal, rubbish, dirt, nor any refuse
or waste or thing which, by its decomposition, could or would become offensive
to human beings, or detrimental to health, or create or tend to create a
nuisance, shall be by any person thrown, deposited or placed upon any street or
public place, nor upon any vacant lot of land, or vacant place upon the face of
any land, within the city, whether such lot to enclosed or otherwise, without
the written permission of the City Health Officer; nor shall any of the
substances be allowed by any person to run or drop from the premises occupied
by such person into or upon any street or public place, nor upon any vacant lot
of land, or vacant place upon the surface of any lot of land in the city.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.74  STABLES.
   That every person shall cause every stable and place where any cows, horses
or other animals may be to be kept at all times in clean and wholesome
condition, and shall not allow any animal to be therein while infected with any
disease, contagious or pestilential, among such animals, without a permit from
the City Health Officer.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.75  DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to distribute or
cause to be distributed from house to house in the city any free samples of
drugs.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.76  UNWHOLESOME FOOD OR DRINKS.
   (A)   That no fruit, salted peanuts, cracked nuts of any kind, candy of any
description, or any other article or foodstuff which may be used for human food
without cooking shall be kept or exposed for sale on any street, or public
place, or outside of any shop or store, or in the open windows or doorways
thereof, unless they be kept covered so that they shall be protected from dust,
dirt and flies.
   (B)   No person shall bring, keep on hand, sell, or expose for sale within
the limits of the city any emaciated, decayed, tainted or unwholesome meat,
fish, fowls, vegetables, fruit, butter or provisions of any kind, or any impure
or adulterated milk, liquor, or other article of food or drink for human
beings.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.77  EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall expectorate upon any of the sidewalks within the corporate
limits of this city.  Each separate violation of this section shall subject the
offender to punishment therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
§ 32.78  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall within the jurisdictional limits
of this city violate, disobey, resist, neglect or refuse to comply with any of
the provisions, requirements or regulations in this subchapter contained, where
no other penalty is provided, shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of
not less than $3 nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 557, passed 8-25-1942)
CHAPTER 33:  TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Scope
   
33.03   Definitions
   
33.04   Publication of tax ordinances
   
33.05   Local Tax Administrator
Procedures; Payment
   
33.15   Notices
   
33.16   Late payment; application
   
33.17   Certain credits and refunds
   
33.18   Audit procedure
   
33.19   Appeals
   
33.20   Hearings
   
33.21   Interest and penalties
   
33.22   Abatement
   
33.23   Installment contracts
   
33.24   Statute of limitations
   
33.25   Voluntary disclosure
   
33.26   Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
TIF Interested Parties Registry Registration Rules
   
33.40   Definitions
   
33.41   Establishment of registry
   
33.42   Maintenance of registry
   
33.43   Registration by residents
   
33.44   Registration by organizations
   
33.45   Determination of eligibility
   
33.46   Renewal and termination
   
33.47   Amendment to registration
   
33.48   Registries available for public inspection
   
33.49   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
33.50   Non-interference
   
33.51   Amendment of registration rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Chapter.”
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.02  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES.  The city’s Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Comptroller is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead.  The
Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter.  The exercise of the authority by
the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX.  Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state.  It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE.  Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE.  Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER.  Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of the tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.04  PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements.  The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.  Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.05  LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. 
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
PROCEDURES; PAYMENT
§ 33.15  NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the person’s last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.16  LATE PAYMENT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to
the city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
      (1)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
      (2)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. Postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
   (B)   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied
in the following order:
      (1)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
      (2)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
      (3)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.17  CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction.  However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have
paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon
which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the
taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
two years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made.  The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.18  AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax
shall comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the Auditor.
   (C)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (D)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted.  The audit shall be conducted no more than 30 days from the date the
notice is given unless the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator agreed to
some other convenient time.  In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the
audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within the
30 days, approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator.
   (E)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction.  All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (F)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city.  If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax
Administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax
liability.
   (G)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (H)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing the tax.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.19  APPEALS.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax.  The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing.  The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 30 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing.  In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.20  HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
33.19 above, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted, except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer.  Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance.  Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment.  The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing.  The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.21  INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest.  The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of the tax, to be 9% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties.  If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a
return shall be imposed and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall
be imposed.  If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed.  A late filing or payment
penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the
controlling ordinance.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.22  ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.23  INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance.  The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing.  Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency.  If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.24  STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing.
   (B)   The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the reviewed
tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still due and
owing.
      (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations
shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return
for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.25  VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has
not received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due.  A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application.  A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may
not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed.  However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void.  The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the
filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the
Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of
tax and interest previously paid under this section must be paid within 90 days
after a final determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional
amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is
longer.
(Ord. 1547, passed 2-27-2001)
§ 33.26  MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon all persons and businesses engaged in the
business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city
at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant
to or as authorized by this section and any such tax collected by such retailer
and required to be remitted to the Department of Revenue shall constitute a
debt owed by the retailer to the State of Illinois. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (D)   The taxes hereby imposed and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power
to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1841, passed 1-7-2020)
TIF INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY REGISTRATION RULES
§ 33.40  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the following terms shall have the definitions
set forth below.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§
11-74.4-1 et seq. as amended from time to time.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Illinois.
   INTERESTED PARTY[IES]. Shall mean:
      (1)   Any organization(s) active within the city;
      (2)   Any resident(s) of the city; and
      (3)   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the Act to
register in a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been terminated in accordance with these registration
rules.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that:
      (1)   Is intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a
"redevelopment project area" under the Act; and
      (2)   Is subject to the "interested parties" registry requirements of the
Act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the requirements of
the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES.  Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 11-74.4-4.2 of the Act for the redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.41  ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The city shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established. The city shall establish a new registry
whenever it has identified an area for study and possible designation as a
redevelopment project area. In any event the process of establishing the new
registry must be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices
required by §
33.49 of this subchapter or any other notices required by the Act with respect
to the proposed redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.42  MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The registries shall be maintained by the City Clerk or his or her designee.
In the event the city determines that someone other than the City Clerk should
maintain the registries, the city may transfer the responsibility for
maintaining the registries to such other Department provided that the city:
   (A)   Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than 30
days prior to such transfer; and
   (B)   Publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.43  REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
City Clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current driver's
license, lease, utility bill, financial statement or such other evidence as may
be acceptable to the Clerk to establish the individual's current city
residency.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.44  REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to the
City Clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-page statement
describing the organization's current operations in the city.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.45  DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten business days of the City Clerk's receipt of all
such documents. The City Clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant
confirming such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
these rules or as otherwise required under the Act with respect to the
applicable redevelopment project area. If the City Clerk determines that a
registrant's registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give
written notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall
be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.46  RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   An interested party's registration shall remain effective for a period of
three years. At any time after such three year period the City Clerk shall
provide written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that
such registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within 30 days of the City Clerk's mailing of written notice. To
renew such registration, the interested party shall, within such 30 day period,
complete and submit the same registration form and supporting documentation
then required of initial registrants in order to permit the City Clerk to
confirm such party's residency or such organization's operations in the city.
The registration of all individuals and organizations whose registration form
and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner and complies with
these regulation rules shall be renewed for an additional, consecutive three
year period. If the City Clerk determines that a registrant's renewal
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give written notice
to the registrant at the address specified in the renewal registration form
submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be
entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation within 30 days of receipt of the City Clerk's notice.
If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the interested party's
receipt of the City Clerk's notice, the interested party's registration shall
be terminated. Any interested party whose registration is terminated shall be
entitled to register again as if a first-time registrant.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.47  AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written
notice to the City Clerk by certified mail of any of the following:
      (1)   A change in address for notice purposes;
      (2)   In the case of organizations, a change in the name of the contact
person; or
      (3)   A termination of registration.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice, the City Clerk shall revise the
applicable registry accordingly.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.48  REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal city
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested party and for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.49  NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   (A)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74-4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information, such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public
hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan.
   (B)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74-4.5(a) of the Act, notice of
changes to proposed redevelopment plans that do not:
      (1)   Add additional parcels of property to the proposed redevelopment
project area;
      (2)   Substantially affect the general land uses proposed in the
redevelopment plan;
      (3)   Substantially change the nature of or extend the life of the
redevelopment project; or
      (4)   Increase the number of low or very low income households to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the
time of creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of
households will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than
ten days following the city's adoption by ordinance of such changes.
   (C)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74-4-5(c) of the Act, notice of
amendments to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not:
      (1)   Add additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project
area;
      (2)   Substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment
plan;
      (3)   Substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project;
      (4)   Increase the total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in
the redevelopment plan by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the
date the plan was adopted;
      (5)   Add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or
      (6)   Increase the number of low or very low income households to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the
time of creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of
households will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than
ten days following the city's adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
   (D)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act for
redevelopment plans or projects that would result in the displacement of
residents from ten or more inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or
more inhabited residential units, notice of the availability of the annual
report described by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74.4-5(d), including how to obtain
the annual report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after completion of the certified audit report.
   (E)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units,
such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the
date of such preliminary public meeting.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.50  NON-INTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
§ 33.51  AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   These registration rules may be amended by the city subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 1781, passed 9-22-2015)
CHAPTER 34:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Establishment Provisions
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Personnel
   
34.03   Compensation
   
34.04   Physical fitness
   
34.05   Officers
   
34.06   Duties of Fire Chief
   
34.07   Apparatus and equipment
   
34.08   Voluntary termination
   
34.09   Suspension or involuntary discharge
   
34.10   Emergencies or disasters
Rules and Regulations
   
34.20   General standards
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Members; acquaintance with rules
   
34.23   Weekly work schedules
   
34.24   Residency
   
34.25   Department property
   
34.26   Qualifications and requirements
   
34.27   Rank; structure and guidelines
   
34.28   Chief and officers; duties
   
34.29   Duty to report
   
34.30   Violations
   
34.31   Equipment and driving
   
34.32   Response to calls
   
34.33   Hours of duty
   
34.34   Prohibited activities
   
34.35   Turnout gear and lockers
Cross-reference:
   Fire Code; Prevention, see
Ch. 93
   Fire Station Recreation Area, see
Ch. 96
GENERAL ESTABLISHMENT PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established and created a department of the city which shall
be known as the Madison Fire Department, hereinafter referred to as
“Department.”
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.02  PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The personnel of the Department, who shall be called firefighters or
cadets, shall consist solely of volunteers who are 18 years of age or older.
   (B)   No volunteer shall be placed or remain upon the rolls of the
Department as a firefighter or cadet during the year which begins at the first
regular City Council meeting in May and ends at the first regular City Council
meeting in May of the following year, even though he or she has been accepted
in the preceding year as a volunteer, until he or she has been appointed as
such by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council at the first
regular City Council meeting in May of that year or when city appointments are
made, or at other times thereafter during that year as vacancies occur in the
Department.
   (C)   City officials and employees of other departments shall be eligible as
personnel of the Department.
   (D)   The Department shall have a maximum volunteer force of 30 firefighters
and ten cadets, trainee firefighters, at any one time.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.03  COMPENSATION.
   Firefighters, including officers of the Department, shall receive
compensation as shall be determined by ordinance from time to time or in the
city’s annual appropriation ordinance.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.04  PHYSICAL FITNESS.
   (A)   Each person accepted as a firefighter or cadet shall be physically
capable of carrying out the duties of a firefighter and shall submit to a
physical examination to determine his or her physical fitness upon the orders
of the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council.  The physical examination
shall be at the expense of the city and shall be made by a doctor selected by
the city.
   (B)   Any firefighter or cadet directed to undergo a physical fitness
examination shall be temporarily suspended from active duty as a firefighter or
cadet, as the case may be, immediately upon receipt of the orders until the
examination is had and a favorable result had from the examination.  The
examination shall be held within a reasonable time of the suspension.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.05  OFFICERS.
   (A)   From the firefighters of the Fire Department, there shall be appointed
a Fire Chief, who shall be the head of and in full charge of the Department, an
Assistant Fire Chief, a Captain and a Lieutenant.  The appointment of the Fire
Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, Captain and Lieutenant shall be made annually at
the first regular City Council meeting in May or the City Council meeting at
which city appointments are made, and thereafter as needed in the ensuing year
by the Mayor subject to approval by the City Council.
   (B)   The Fire Department may submit its recommendation for Fire Chief,
Assistant Fire Chief, a Captain and a Lieutenant to the Mayor prior to May 1 of
each year, with the understanding that the Mayor is not bound by the
recommendation.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.06  DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall, at all times, have full control and command over
all the personnel of the Department, all of the fire apparatus and equipment
belonging to the city and their usage in accomplishing the objectives of the
Department.
   (B)   In addition, he or she shall formulate and establish a set of
administrative rules and regulations entitled, “General Rules and Regulations
for the Madison Fire Department,” to govern or control the Department and
promote the efficiency and usefulness of the Department’s personnel, which
rules and regulations shall be approved by the Mayor and City Council before
they shall become effective.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.07  APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The Mayor and City Council shall determine, with the advice and counsel of
the Fire Chief, the amount, type and size of all fire apparatus and equipment
comprising the Department, and shall purchase, repair or replace any and all
fire apparatus and equipment and accessories they deem necessary, as provided
by state law.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.08  VOLUNTARY TERMINATION.
   Any firefighter or cadet may, upon 15-days written notice to the Fire Chief,
have his or her name removed from the rolls of the Department and thereby
terminate his or her voluntary service to the Department.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.09  SUSPENSION OR INVOLUNTARY DISCHARGE.
   The Fire Chief shall have the power to suspend without pay any firefighter
or cadet of the Department for a period of not more than 30 days, but he or she
shall immediately notify in writing the Mayor of the suspension.  Any
firefighter or cadet so suspended may appeal, in writing, to the Mayor and City
Council through the City Clerk within 72 hours after the suspension for a
hearing thereon.  After the hearing on the appeal, the Mayor and City Council
may sustain the action of the Fire Chief, may reverse the action of the Fire
Chief in whole or in part, may suspend the firefighter or cadet for an
additional period of time certain or may terminate him or her, depending on the
facts of the case.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
§ 34.10  EMERGENCIES OR DISASTERS.
   The Fire Chief shall have the authority in all emergencies and disasters to
accept assistance from volunteers who are not regularly enrolled firefighters
or qualified.
(Ord. 1110, passed 2-24-1987)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 34.20  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The general rules and regulations for the Madison, Illinois Municipal Fire
Department are not meant to cover all behavior, conduct or actions by members
of the Department.  As members of the Department, we are perceived by the
citizens of the city as protectors of life and property and shall be governed
by the laws of the State of Illinois and the United States of America, and in
certain situations be held to higher standards.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTING CHIEF.  The senior officer who is acting as Chief of the Department
in the Chief's Absence.  This shall be determined by the command structure as
outlined in this subchapter.
   CALLS.  Any incident in which dispatched including alarms, rescues,
extrications and all fires.  These shall occasionally be referred to as
incidents or runs.
   CHIEF.  The Fire Chief of the city who is the senior officer of the
Department and who at all times shall have full control and command over all of
the personnel, apparatus, station house and all equipment owned and operated by
the Department and their usage in accomplishing objectives set forth by the
city and its citizens.
   CITY.  The City of Madison Illinois, the Mayor’s office and City Council.
   COMMAND STRUCTURE.  Descending from Chief to Lieutenant:
      (1)   Fire Chief;
      (2)   Assistant Fire Chief;
      (3)   Captain; and,
      (4)   Lieutenant.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Fire Department of the city.
   DUTY.  When a member reports for training, work detail, night duty or any
emergency incident as dispatched.
   ESSENTIALS TRAINING.  Training set forth by the Illinois State Fire
Marshal’s Office.  This training shall be from the most recent and current text
recognized by the OSFM's current Firefighter II Certification text book/CD. 
Training shall include the following:
      (1)   Fire Department organization;
      (2)   Command and control;
      (3)   Communications and alarms;
      (4)   Fire behavior;
      (5)   Firefighter safety;
      (6)   Personal protective equipment;
      (7)   Self-contained breathing apparatus;
      (8)   Portable fire extinguishers;
      (9)   Water supply;
      (10)   Fire hose and appliances;
      (11)   Nozzles, fire streams and foam;
      (12)   Sprinklers;
      (13)   Ladders;
      (14)   Building construction;
      (15)   Ropes and knots;
      (16)   Forcible entry;
      (17)   Rescue procedures;
      (18)   Ventilation;
      (19)   Fire suppression;
      (20)   Salvage and overhaul;
      (21)   Fire prevention and pre-incident planning;
      (22)   Emergency medical services;
      (23)   Firefighter survival;
      (24)   Terrorism awareness; and,
      (25)   Haz Mat recognition and identification.
   MANDATORY TRAINING.  Training set forth by state or federal law including:
      (1)   Haz Mat awareness refresher or training;
      (2)   Blood-borne pathogens;
      (3)   CPR;
      (4)   SCBA face mask fit test;
      (5)   Physical test; and,
      (6)   First-responder EMS.
   MEMBER.  Any officer, firefighter or probationary firefighter who has been
accepted and placed on the roster by the city.
   NECESSARY TRAINING.  Any training mandated by the city in order for the
Department to function professionally.  This training may include:
      (1)   Sexual harassment;
      (2)   Cultural diversity;
      (3)   Methamphetamines awareness; and/or,
      (4)   Certain safety classes not required by OSHA, I.D.O.L., or O.S.F.M.
   OFFICER IN CHARGE.  The most senior officer on scene unless command bad been
relinquished by the officer in charge to a junior officer or member.
   PERSONAL EQUIPMENT.  Equipment issued to any member by the Department,
including pager, charger, hand-held portable and any other equipment issued by
the Department not listed.
   RANKING OFFICER.  The most senior officer on duty.
   STATION HOUSE.  The Fire Department building located at 1800 Third Street,
Madison, Illinois.
   TURNOUT GEAR.  The Department-issued coat, pants, helmet, nomex hood,
gloves, boots and SCBA mask.
   UNIFORM.  The Department-issued shirt, trousers, breast badge, collar
insignias, wallet badge and Class A uniform if issued.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.22  MEMBERS; ACQUAINTANCE WITH RULES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every member to acquaint themselves with all
regulations brought forth in §§
34.20 through
34.35.  Lack of knowledge of these rules and regulations will not be acceptable
and will not relieve any member of penalties for violation(s) of any Department
rule or order.
   (B)   Every member of the Department should understand that these rules and
regulations are not intended to cover every case which may arise in the
discharge of their duties; some things shall be left to their intelligence and
discretion.
   (C)   In the matter of general conduct not within the scope of the
Department rules and regulations, a member shall be governed by the ordinary
rules of good behavior by law abiding citizens.
   (D)   Whenever there is doubt as to the interpretation of any rule or
regulation, application shall be made to the Chief for an interpretation of the
document.
   (E)   Each member shall keep his or her copy of the rules and regulations in
good condition and may occasionally be called upon by the Chief or other
officer of the Department for inspection of the same.
   (F)   Upon termination, resignation or retirement, the member who possesses
these rules and regulations shall surrender the document to the Chief or other
officer of the Department.
   (G)   SOGs will be written, posted, read and signed by all members upon
issuance. It will be the responsibility of each member to add such orders to
their Department-issued binders.  Such rules and regulations and SOGs shall be
made readily available for inspection by the Chief or designee.
   (H)   The Chief at times will make additions or modifications to the rules
and regulations and reserves the right and duty to do so without the
authorization of the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.23  WEEKLY WORK SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All members will furnish their weekly work schedule or any subsequent
changes for their regular employment to the Chief in writing within two days of
receiving knowledge of the same.
   (B)   All members will notify an officer of the Department if they are going
to be out of town for a period of 24 hours or longer.  Notification must be
made prior to such departure and can be made by phone or in writing.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.24  RESIDENCY.
   A member of the Department who changes place of residency or telephone
number whether listed or unlisted shall make a report in writing to the Chief
within 24 hours of such change taking effect.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.25  DEPARTMENT PROPERTY.
   A member of the Department upon resignation, termination or retirement shall
immediately surrender all property of the Department to the Chief or equipment
officer.  Each member understands that failure to do so may result in charges
being filed within state law for theft.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.26  QUALIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In order to uphold the safety of the citizens, the city has agreed to
allow nonresidents to apply and possibly be appointed as members of the Fire
Department.  The city agrees that any person who applies and is appointed shall
reside within a seven-mile radius of the station house located at 1800 Third
Street.  Any person who is appointed shall have already received training and
certification of at least Firefighter II as outlined by the Illinois Office of
the State Fire Marshal or its equivalency.  The requirements will be:
      (1)   At least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Valid driver's license;
      (3)   Pass criminal background check;
      (4)   Firefighter II or its equivalency;
      (5)   Pass physical examination to include narcotics test;
      (6)   CPR/AED certified; and,
      (7)   Reside within a seven-mile radius of the station house to exclude
the state of Missouri.
   (B)   Every member of the Department shall conform promptly to all orders,
rules and regulations and obey all orders, whether written or oral.  Obedience
to these orders shall be prompt, implicit, unchallenged and unequivocal.
   (C)   All members within their first year of service shall receive training
and maintain certification in the following: CPR, blood-borne pathogens,
hazardous materials awareness, and automatic external defibrillator (AED).
   (D)   All members within two years of the passage of these rules and
regulations shall receive training and certification in Firefighter II training
as mandated by the current training and certification standards set forth by
the Illinois Office of the State Fire Marshal.  Such training will be paid for
by the city.  If in any case the member is dropped, quits or does not pass the
certification, they shall reimburse the city for the costs of the modules and
books.
   (E)   Any member who is currently certified as a Firefighter II by the
Illinois Office of the State Fire Marshal shall make an effort to maintain such
standing and continue to maintain training in areas added by the OSFM.
   (F)   All applicants for membership shall be 18 years of age or older at the
time of application. All applications will be reviewed by the Chief and a
criminal background check shall be made by the Police Department.  Only after
such check is made shall the application be made to the Mayor and City Council
for appointment to the Department.
   (G)   Certain immediate disqualifying charges and or convictions of state
law will be:
      (1)   Any drug related arrest or conviction;
      (2)   Domestic violence;
      (3)   Weapons offenses; and,
      (4)   Criminal sexual assault/abuse.
   (H)   Prior to becoming a member of the Department, the applicant will pass
a physical examination by a physician currently used by the city.  The cost of
the examination will be paid for by the city.
   (I)   All members shall attend all trainings, meetings, special meetings,
work details or special details unless excused by the Chief or an officer of
the department.  (Obviously work schedules play a large part in not being able
to attend these events which is why a work schedule furnished to the Chief is
important and shall act as an excused absence.)  Any member who has a combined
six unexcused absences within the calendar year shall be considered for
dismissal from the Department by the Chief. Such recommendation will be made by
the Chief to the City Council.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.27  RANK; STRUCTURE AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   To be promoted within the Department, each member will successfully
pass a test on firefighting related skills in the presence of a majority of the
officers of the Department.  Each member shall be provided a qualifications
sheet for the skills and training needed to obtain such rank being tested for.
   (B)   The current rank structure of the Department shall be cadet,
probationary firefighter, and firefighter, ascending in order.  This rank
excludes the command rank structure in which all officers will hold the rank of
firefighter before appointment by the Mayor and City Council.
   (C)   A cadet shall be in the rank for a period not to exceed two years
prior to being considered for promotion to probationary firefighter.  If the
member does not meet qualifications or standards set forth in this subchapter
within the two-year period, the member shall be terminated from the
Department.  Any member appointed to the rank of cadet who meets or exceeds
certain training requirements prior to appointment shall be appointed to the
rank of probationary firefighter at the discretion of the Chief.
   (D)   A probationary firefighter shall not hold such rank longer than two
years and less than one before being tested for the rank of firefighter.  In
the event the member does not pass the test for firefighter, they shall be
demoted to the rank of cadet to receive further basic training.
   (E)   In case of absence or disability of any officer of the Department, all
powers, authority, duties and obligations of said officer shall for all
purposes and occasions transfer upon the officer next in rank, unless such
vacancy shall have been filled by direct appointment by the Chief.
   (F)   The ranking officer present shall command at a fire, rescue or
incident.  The officer who arrives first at such scene shall assume command
under the Incident Command Structure.  Such command shall be maintained until
relinquished to a superior officer.  (The Incident Command Structure is covered
under Section 11 of the Standard Operating Guidelines of the Madison Fire
Department, a separate document.)
   (G)   In the case where an officer of the Department has not yet arrived on
scene the senior member on scene shall assume command until an officer
arrives.  The senior member shall be the ranking member as posted by the
seniority list.  Seniority shall be by date hired and rank.  In the event two
members were promoted on the same date, seniority shall be by date of hire.
   (H)   In the event a member is acting under orders by an officer and a
conflicting order is given, the subordinate under the first order shall inform
the officer issuing the subsequent order of the prior order issued and then
shall proceed to comply with subsequent order unless the order is given by an
officer of superior rank.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.28  CHIEF AND OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief shall have direct control, management and direction of all
members of the Department with full power to detail any of them in the best
interests of the Department.
   (B)   (1)   Officers of the Department shall be responsible for properly
maintaining discipline and efficiency within the Department.
      (2)   All officers of the department shall at times properly assist the
Chief in the discharge of the duties and commands of such office.
      (3)   All officers of the department will perform such duties as
specified by the Chief.
      (4)   All officers of the department shall have a working knowledge of
the duties and responsibilities of their subordinates, and shall be available
for assistance or conduct of the members of the Department and take active
charge when necessary.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of every officer and member of the Department
to attend every incident unless excused by the Chief and to exert the greatest
energy and best ability a member shall provide under any and all circumstances.
      (6)   The officers of the Department shall be just, dignified and firm in
their contact with subordinates being careful to abstain from abusive language
in giving orders.  The officers of the Department will see that all orders,
rules and regulations are strictly obeyed and promptly reported in writing to
the Chief of any violations.
   (C)   The officers of the Department shall not discuss or permit to become
the knowledge of their subordinates, matters of Department business, management
or other information not directly of interest to the subordinates and under no
circumstances shall any controversial matters between the officers of the
Department be allowed to become public.
   (D)   The Mayor has agreed that the Chief reserves the right to modify,
delete or add to this subchapter to ensure that the Department is run safely
and effectively.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.29  DUTY TO REPORT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of a member of the Department to make
an immediate report of injury or illness while on duty to an officer of the
Department who shall immediately report such injury or illness to the Chief.
   (B)   In the event any member has chest pain, jaw pain, radiating pain in
either arm or shortness of breath, the member shall immediately without delay
be transported to the nearest emergency medical facility for treatment.
   (C)   In the event any member is injured or becomes ill while on duty or at
a Department function and is transported to a medical facility, an officer
shall accompany the member and make an immediate report to the Chief who will
make a report to the Mayor of the member’s condition and circumstances
surrounding the injury or illness.
   (D)   Immediately or as soon possible after its occurrence, any member who
is injured while on duty shall make a written report to the ranking officer or
officer of such injury.  The report will include, date, time and nature of
injury and what duty was being performed when the injury occurred.  The officer
receiving the report will make a written report to the Chief of the incident,
who in return will complete and file the necessary paperwork with the city.
   (E)   Immediately or as soon as possible after its occurrence, a member of
the Department shall make a written report to the Chief when a member has been
charged or placed under arrest for a violation of any law, whether traffic
related or criminal in nature.  This report shall provide the date, time,
location and nature of the arrest and if charges were filed.  Failure to do so
may result in dismissal from the Department.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.30  VIOLATIONS.
   The Chief or designee shall suspend any member up to 29 days for any
violation or a combination of violations without notifying the Mayor and City
Council of such decision.  For any suspension beyond 29 days, a written report
shall be made by the Chief to the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.31  EQUIPMENT AND DRIVING.
   (A)   The members of the Department shall not move or alter any equipment on
apparatus, fire fighting equipment or general set-up of the operation of the
Department or disarrange the system of operation in any way without the
approval of the Chief or equipment officer.
   (B)   Every member and officer of the Department shall have a valid Illinois
driver’s license with a classification of B or better before driving any
Department apparatus.  The city has requested that every member obtain a Class
B CDL Illinois driver’s license in case of time of emergency outside of
Department training.
   (C)   No cadet is authorized to drive any apparatus unless directed to do so
by an officer of the Department.
   (D)    Drivers of Department vehicles and/or apparatus shall respond to
scene without delay and at all times maintain control of said vehicle and/or
apparatus. Drivers shall obey all traffic rules and regulations as stated in
the current Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (E)   Members of the Department when traveling to the fire station during an
incident in their personal vehicle shall obey all traffic rules and
regulations, avoid excessive speeds, obey all traffic control devices and
signals and maintain complete control of their vehicle at all times.
   (F)   If any member operates a revolving, flashing or lit blue light all
traffic laws shall still be obeyed under the Illinois Vehicle Code.  The blue
light is a courtesy light and shall be used as such.  Any member operating a
blue light shall not operate the light outside the corporate city limits by
Department rules.
   (G)   Every member of the Department shall report any and every injury,
accident, collision or any other extraordinary circumstance encountered. 
Damage to property however slight or unusual in nature shall be reported to an
officer.  Any damage to Department vehicles/apparatus or equipment will
immediately be reported to an officer in verbal and written form.
   (H)   A five-member Accident/Damage Review Board made up of members of the
Department will be made up of by the Chief in which he/she will be the
convening authority.  The Board will review all accidents/damages to Department
vehicles/apparatus and equipment and then make a recommendation to the Chief
for possible disciplinary or corrective action.  A list of such members plus an
alternate will be posted.
   (I)   No persons except members of the Department shall be allowed to ride
on apparatus to or from an incident unless authorized by the Chief or an
Officer.
   (J)   The ranking officer or the senior member on duty shall make certain
that when the apparatus returns to the station house that all equipment is
placed into its proper place and in working condition. The apparatus shall be
washed, wiped dry and inspected before it's placed back in to service.
   (K)   The driver of the apparatus shall make sure that all equipment is in
its proper place when the apparatus returns to the station house.  A check
sheet will be provided to make certain this task is complete.  Once complete, a
verbal report will be made to the ranking officer or member of the check. Under
no circumstances will the members be released from duty until the apparatus is
back in service including equipment cleaned, wiped dry and replaced if
necessary.
   (L)   Any equipment lost, stolen or damaged during an incident shall be
reported immediately in writing to the Chief or ranking officer.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.32  RESPONSE TO CALLS.
   No member shall respond outside the service area of the Department unless
ordered to do so by the Chief, ranking officer or Mayor.  In the case of mutual
aid request by another Department which is already on scene or en route, the
members will respond without delay.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.33  HOURS OF DUTY.
   (A)   The hours of duty for the Department’s night shift will be from 2000
until 0600 the next day (8:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.).  The Chief or Mayor may,
in an emergency status, temporarily alter the hours while said emergency
exists.
   (B)   Members shall report promptly at 2000 hours (8:00 p.m.) for duty.  If
any member is going to be delayed, the member will make arrangements for a
temporary fill-in.
   (C)   No member shall leave from duty before 0600 (6:00 a.m.) the morning of
ending tour unless they have secured another member to cover the remaining
time.
   (D)   No member shall fail to report for scheduled duty.  If such members
fail to report for duty promptly in uniform, the senior member on duty shall
make arrangements for a fill-in by calling the senior-most member first and
working down the list.  The member who fails to show for duty will forfeit the
remaining duty period and be subject to disciplinary action by the Chief.  Such
absence shall be considered absence without leave and shall stand suspended
until a written report by the Chief is made to the Mayor and City Council of
such suspension.
   (E)   The members of the Department on night duty shall nightly be
responsible for the removal of debris from and around the station house.  They
shall clean the sleeping quarters, day room, and communications room, meeting
room, conference room, entryway, hallways and all restrooms and locker rooms
including the workout area.
   (F)   Members on night duty shall be responsible for the removal and
emptying of all trash receptacles within the station house nightly and place
trash/garbage in the trash dumpster provided by the city.
   (G)   Members on night duty shall be responsible for removing snow from the
walkways around the exterior of the station house.  Deicing product will be
placed when appropriate and in such a manner as to provide a safe walkway.  The
city will be responsible for removing snow/ice from the parking lot areas.
   (H)   All members shall report in clean duty uniforms, they shall be clean. 
The member shall be clean-shaven, sideburns will not extend below the ears,
moustache will not extend below the chin or any portion that will interfere
with the proper seal of a face mask.  Each member’s hair will not extend past
the shoulder or not able to fit under the issued Department helmet.
   (I)   No member shall be allowed to work in place of another member unless
approved by the Chief or officer.  In the event a switch of the same rank is
made, no approval will be needed.  Switches of different rank can be approved
by any officer.
   (J)   Duty changes shall be made in writing and noted on the permanent
posted schedule for assignment.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.34  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   (1)   No member will report to duty while under the intoxication of
alcohol and/or prescribed medications that may hamper their ability to operate
or function in the performance of their duties. If any member is suspected of
being under such influence they may be ordered to go to the nearest medical
facility for blood test.  In alcohol-related cases the member may be ordered to
respond to the Police Department for a breathalyzer test.  In each incident, if
the member refuses they will immediately be placed on suspension, relieved of
duty and the Chief will make written notice to the Mayor’s office for
dismissal.
      (2)   While on duty, no member shall drink intoxicating beverages or take
illegal drugs of any kind nor for any reason permit or allow intoxicating
beverages or illegal drugs to be brought on to Department premises or
property.  Any member found to be in possession of these items shall be subject
to discipline including termination and or criminal charges.
      (3)   If any member is found to have an illegal narcotic in his or her
system, he or she shall immediately be terminated from the Department without
prejudice.
   (B)   No member shall lend any portion of their uniform to any person
outside of the Department without the permission of the Chief.
   (C)   A member of the Department detailed to a funeral, parade detail or
special detail shall report in full uniform unless specified by the Chief. 
Absence from such details shall be granted only by the Chief or the ranking
officer of the detail.
   (D)   Each member of the Department is personally responsible for each piece
of their equipment, including badge, nameplate, collar insignias, shirt,
trousers and wallet badge.  Any member losing this equipment while not in the
performance of their duties will be responsible for payment to the city for
such replacement.
   (E)   In the interest of the economy, every member shall do their best to
conserve the Department's water, gas, fuel, electricity, supplies, etc.  All
lights shall be turned off at the switch when members leave the area.  All
doors shall be closed in order for the heating, air conditioning and
ventilation to perform properly and efficiently.
   (F)   The members of the Department on night duty shall weekly be
responsible for thoroughly inspecting equipment and completing the weekly check
sheets properly.  They shall report any and all missing, broken or
malfunctioning equipment by completing the proper form and reporting it to the
equipment officer.
   (G)   No member of the Department while properly at rest in the Department
sleeping room shall be unnecessarily disturbed.
   (H)   No vehicles or equipment other than those owned by the city shall be
parked or stored in the engine room unless by permission of the Chief.
   (I)   No member shall leave the station while on call or an incident without
first obtaining permission of the officer in charge.  Any member who does so
shall be considered leaving post without permission and disciplined.
   (J)   No member shall permit any visitor in the station house after 11:00
p.m. Sunday through Thursday nights and after 12:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday
nights.  No member shall allow any nonmember into the second floor area of the
station house at any time, nor shall they allow any intoxicated person or one
who is under the influence of narcotics onto city property at any time.
   (K)   All personal telephone calls shall be limited to five minutes and
shall be local only.  No personnel shall make long distance telephone calls
that are not Department-related.
   (L)   The ranking officer or senior firefighter shall inspect and proofread
any and all reports and check sheets to ensure that they are completed properly
and with all necessary and proper information.
   (M)   No member shall excuse himself or herself from a scene, incident,
training, duty or detail without the permission or knowledge of the ranking
officer in charge of said detail or incident.  Every member shall return to the
station house on the apparatus they arrived on scene in unless excused by the
officer in charge or special circumstances exist where it is impractical (i.e.
apparatus has returned or on another assignment and personnel kept at scene).
   (N)   No member of the Department shall direct a stream of water on any
personnel, bystander, civilian unless ordered to do so by the officer in charge
or unless said subject has visible flames emitting from them and it is
necessary to preserve life.
   (O)   It shall be the responsibility and duty for every member who comes in
contact with any object of value or firearm to immediately inform the officer
in charge of such discovery and see to it that the item is turned over to the
proper authority.
   (P)   Any member who comes in contact with or discovers any items of
evidentiary value will immediately inform the officer in charge who will see to
it that the item or items are turned over to the law enforcement agency having
jurisdiction.
   (Q)   No member will appropriate or take possession of any items from the
scene of any incident.
   (R)   Except by permission of the Mayor and City Council, no member shall
receive any reward or payment for services rendered.  No member will demand any
such payment or reward.
   (S)   No member shall use obscene or inappropriate language while on duty. 
Every member will treat every citizen or contact with the respect they
deserve.  (It is understandable that members may at times come in contact with
persons where it may become necessary to defend themselves.  If this occurs the
law enforcement agency having jurisdiction shall be notified immediately.)
   (T)   No member shall wantonly or maliciously make any false report against
another member of this Department.
   (U)   No member shall be permitted to defame a fellow member or criticize
the actions or orders of a senior firefighter or officer in charge.
   (V)   No member of this Department shall commit the offense of
insubordination.  Insubordination shall be the failure or deliberate refusal of
any member of this Department to obey a lawful order given by a superior
officer or the ridiculing of a ranking officer's orders in or out of their
presence.
   (W)    No member shall gamble or place bets on city-owned property.
   (X)   No advertising material, posters, private notices or other
disfigurement shall be displayed or permitted anywhere in or on Department
premises without permission of the Chief.
   (Y)   No information relative to the affairs or daily operations of this
Department shall be discussed or furnished to any personnel not connected with
the Department unless authorized by the Chief.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
§ 34.35  TURNOUT GEAR AND LOCKERS.
   (A)   Turnout gear will be worn while on apparatus responding to and while
returning from the scene of an incident.
   (B)   All members will wear full turnout gear and SCBA while on scene of any
fire-related incident, HAZ MAT incident, or other incident the officer in
charge deems necessary to wear such equipment. The officer in charge or safety
officer is the only authority to release personnel from this responsibility.
   (C)   Every member of the Department will keep their turnout gear when not
in actual use in their assigned locker which is provided by the Department. 
They will keep their assigned locker clean and closed but accessible for
periodic inspection by any officer of the Department.  There will be no
inappropriate material posted in such locker.
   (D)   Any member who places their turnout gear outside of their assigned
locker while on duty will remove their equipment and place it back in to their
assigned locker when their tour of duty is complete.
(Ord. 1700, passed 3-4-2008)
CHAPTER 35:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Establishment of Department
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Offices created
   
35.03   Appointment
   
35.04   Bond
   
35.05   Head of department; powers to establish police regulations
   
35.06   Chief of Police; duties; monthly report
   
35.07   Assistant Chief of Police; duties
   
35.08   Policemen; powers and duties; daily reports to Chief; records to be
kept by Chief
   
35.09   Policeman may enter building by force and make arrests therein in
certain cases
   
35.10   Duty of policemen; not to engage in business that may interfere, nor
absent themselves without permission
   
35.11   Chief to keep an office
   
35.12   Police to report and render assistance to Chief
   
35.13   Police guilty of neglect of duty and the like
   
35.14   Appointment of special policemen to serve with regular police force
   
35.15   Police badges
   
35.16   Suspension
   
35.17   Compensation
   
35.18   Compensation of special policemen
Rules and Regulations
   
35.25   Manual adopted by reference
Auxiliary Police Officers
   
35.35   Appointment; authorization
   
35.36   General requirements
   
35.37   Powers and duties
   
35.38   Carrying firearms; permission from Chief
   
35.39   Training and uniforms
   
35.40   Compensation
Cross-reference:
   Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policies, see §§
37.50 and
37.51
   Emergency Services and Disaster Agencies, see
Ch. 39
   General Offenses, see Title XIII
   Law Department, see §§
32.20 through
32.23
   Law enforcement agencies; holding facilities; fee, see §
37.35
   Personnel, see
Ch. 38
ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a Department of the municipal
government of the city, which shall be known as the Police Department, and
until otherwise provided, shall consist of a Chief of Police, an Assistant
Chief, four sergeants and seven police patrol persons, as shall from time to
time be appointed and other patrol persons as shall from time to time be
appointed by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, the Chief of Police or
the Mayor under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.02  OFFICES CREATED.
   (A)   The following offices are hereby created:
      (1)   Office of Chief of Police;
      (2)   Office of Assistant Chief of Police;
      (3)   Offices of four sergeants; and
      (4)   Offices of seven police patrol persons.
   (B)   The following Office of Probationary Patrol Person is hereby created.
      (1)   The office shall be filled by appointment of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners and shall serve in that office for a term commensurate
with the rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
and until the time as the probationary patrol person shall be certified by the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
      (2)   All personnel, with the exception of the Chief of Police and the
Assistant Chief of Police, upon being first duly certified and appointed by the
Board to serve in any office of the Police Department shall have first served
the period of Probationary Patrolman.  The compensation for services rendered
as Probationary Patrolman shall be a salary as may be fixed in the annual
appropriation ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.03  APPOINTMENT.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall appoint ail officers and
members of the Police Department, with the exception of the Chief of Police and
Assistant Chief of Police. All appointments to the Police Department, other
than that of the lowest rank, and with the exception of the Chief of Police and
Assistant Chief of Police shall be from the rank next below that to which the
appointment is made. The Mayor shall appoint annually, at the first regular
meeting of the City Council in May of each year, or as soon thereafter as may
be convenient, with the approval of the City Council, to the Office of Chief of
Police and to the office of Assistant Chief of Police; he or she may, in his
discretion, appoint the Chief of Police and the Assistant Chief of Police from
the membership of the Police Department, regardless of rank. Should the Chief
of Police or Assistant Chief of Police be appointed from the membership of the
Police Department, upon completion of his term of office, he or she shall
revert and be returned to the rank held by him in the Police Department at the
time of his appointment to the office of Chief of Police or Assistant Chief of
Police, provided he or she shall not have been promoted to a higher rank by the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners during the term of office as Chief of
Police or as Assistant Chief of Police, in which event he or she shall revert
and return to the highest rank to which he or she has been appointed. All of
said officers, including the Chief of Police and Assistant Chief of Police,
shall be subject to removal as provided by law and the City Ordinances.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974; Am. Ord. 1828, passed 12-27-2018)
§ 35.04  BOND.
   All members of the Police Department and all special police shall each,
before entering upon the duties of his or her office, take and sign the oath
prescribed by law for city officers, and each shall execute a bond to the city
in the penal sum of $2,000 with sureties as the City Council shall approve,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office
according to law and ordinances of the city, which the oath and bond shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.05  HEAD OF DEPARTMENT; POWERS TO ESTABLISH POLICE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief shall be the head of the Police Department, and shall
superintend and direct the police generally, and from time to time give
directions as he or she may deem necessary for the prevention of the peace and
good order and the enforcing of the laws and ordinances of the city; and may,
from time to time, by and with the consent of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners, make and establish police regulations as may by them be deemed
expedient or necessary for the government and control of the Police Department
and to promote the efficiency and usefulness of the members thereof.  The
police regulations may prescribe the duties of the police officers and
policemen more specifically than is hereby contained, and may provide such
penalties and forfeiture for neglect of duty or improper conduct (such as
removal, suspension from pay, fine or reprimand) as may be deemed necessary and
expedient for the proper regulation of the different members of the department,
which rules shall be in writing, or printed, signed by the Chief, and be
binding on all officers connected with the Department after notice thereof.  A
copy of the rules shall be delivered to each policeman, and also be posted
conspicuously on the police station.
   (B)   He or she shall have power, on the application of any person or
persons, showing the necessity thereof, to appoint and swear in any additional
number of special patrolmen on the police force to do special duty at any fixed
place within the city, at the charge and expense of the person or persons by
whom the application is made, and shall keep a correct list of all persons so
appointed;  and persons so appointed shall conform to and be subject to all
rules and regulations governing the police force of the city and to such
special rules and regulations as the Chief may make concerning the police
patrolmen.  They shall possess all the powers, privileges and duties of the
regular police patrolmen at the places for which they are respectively
appointed, and may be removed or discharged from service at any time by the
Chief without assigning any cause therefor.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.06  CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES; MONTHLY REPORT.
   The Chief shall be the acting head of the Police Department and the
Assistant Chief and all policemen shall be in subordination to him or her.  It
shall be his or her duty to cause the public peace to be preserved and to see
that all laws are enforced, and whenever any violation therefor shall come to
his or her knowledge, or be reported to him or her, he or she shall cause the
requisite complaint to be made and see that the proper evidence is procured for
a successful prosecution of the offender or offenders.  He or she and his or
her subordinates shall obey all police rules as may be established for the
regulation of the Department, and shall, in case of riot, tumult or
insurrection, or threatening thereof, take command in person of the police
officers and direct their movements and operations in discharge of their
duties.  He or she shall keep a record and make report to the Council monthly,
and also at and before the close of the fiscal year, of the operations of the
Department and in conforming with the requirements of the police rules.  He or
she shall be responsible for the efficiency, general conduct and good order of
his or her Department, and shall promptly report to the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners in writing all complaints made to him or her or in any way
coming to his or her knowledge prejudicial to the honesty, sobriety and
faithfulness of any of his or her subordinates.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.07  ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Assistant Chief shall perform the duties as may be designated by
the Chief from time to time and shall perform the duties of the Chief in his or
her absence, which he or she shall relinquish upon the return to duty of the
Chief.
   (B)   At any time the office of Chief of Police or Assistant Chief is filled
from any rank in the Police Department the position from which the office of
Chief or Assistant Chief is filled shall remain as filled and not open for
purposes of promotion by reason of the provision for reversion contained in §
35.03.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.08  POLICEMEN; POWERS AND DUTIES; DAILY REPORTS TO CHIEF; RECORDS TO BE
KEPT BY CHIEF.
   (A)   Each member of the Department shall be a conservator of the peace and
shall have power to arrest all persons in the city found in the act of
violating any law or ordinance, or aiding or abetting in any such violation, or
any person whom any officer has reasonable grounds for believing has committed
a public offense, and who is liable to escape before his or her arrest, and
forthwith take all persons so arrested to the office of the Police Magistrate
or some justice of the peace for trial.  They shall have power and authority in
the city to serve and execute warrants and other processes for the apprehension
and commitment of persons charged with, held for examination or trial, or taken
in the act of committing any crime or misdemeanor, or violating any law or
ordinance of the city, in the same manner and with like authority as a 
constable by the laws of the state.  All policemen shall daily report to the
Chief all arrests made during the day or night, and all material facts relating
to them; and the Chief shall keep a book in which shall be recorded all arrests
made by the Police Department, and the offenses for which the arrests were
made, and where the same were made, by number and street.
   (B)   The regular work day of each policeman shall be an eight-hour shift;
provided, however, this provision regarding the hours of work for members of
the Department shall not be effective where, in the opinion of the Mayor or
Chief, a condition exists in the city that requires the service of any and all
policemen; in which case the members of the Department shall be subject to duty
at any and all times and shall not be entitled to any extra pay or allowed
additional vacation at a future time therefor.  Each policeman shall be
entitled to a maximum of two hours’ pay at the rate of 1 times his or her
normal rate of pay for any day when the policeman is called to court on his or
her off-duty by either the City Attorney or the state’s attorney or his or her
authorized assistants.
   (C)   Each member of the Department shall be entitled to vacation with pay,
annually, as stated in Ordinance 893 passed October 22, 1974, to be taken
before the end of his or her annual date of employment, except that no member
shall be entitled to vacation until he or she shall have completed one year of
service, and no proportionate vacation shall be allowed for any fractional part
of a year of service.  No accumulation or cash-in of vacation shall be
permitted.
   (D)   Vacations shall be arranged and granted by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners and the Chief of Police in such manner that the Department
shall at no time be insufficiently manned.
   (E)   Every member of the Department who shall be absent from duty, except
on account of his or her sickness, or unavoidable accident to himself or
herself, or by permission of the Chief, shall have the period of such absence
deducted from his or her next salary payment, and the Chief shall report to the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, all cases of absence from duty and
shall assign the reason for  the absence.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.09  POLICEMAN MAY ENTER BUILDING BY FORCE AND MAKE ARRESTS THEREIN IN
CERTAIN CASES.
   The Mayor, the Chief, the Assistant Chief, and all police officers shall
have power and authority in a peaceable manner, or, if refused admittance after
proper demand made, with force, to enter into any house, store, shop, grocery
or other building wherever in the city in which any person may be or be
reasonably suspected by any such officer to be for any unlawful purpose; and if
any person or persons shall be found therein committing any crime, felony, or
misdemeanor, or violation of any ordinance for the preservation of the peace
and good order of the city; or who may by such officer be reasonably suspected
of such, or of aiding or abetting in any offense, the officer shall apprehend
and keep in custody  the person or persons as in case of other arrests made by
police officers.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.10  DUTY OF POLICEMEN; NOT TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS THAT MAY INTERFERE, NOR
ABSENT THEMSELVES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   The Chief, Assistant Chief and all police officers shall devote their full
time and attention to the discharge of the duties of their respective stations,
according to the laws and ordinances of the city and the provisions of police
regulations as may be established; and it shall be their duty, to the best of
their ability to preserve order, peace and quiet, and enforce all laws and
ordinances throughout the city.  They shall not engage in any business or
occupation, or endeavor, other than as a police officer for the city, unless by
special assignment by the Mayor of Chief to any other law enforcement agency,
and they shall not be absent themselves from the city, nor from their duties
unless by permission of the Chief or the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.11  CHIEF TO KEEP AN OFFICE.
   The Chief is hereby required to keep and maintain for the purpose of his or
her office, an office or place of business at the City Hall, where he or she
shall attend at all reasonable hours when not called elsewhere on duty.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.12  POLICE TO REPORT AND RENDER ASSISTANCE TO CHIEF.
   The several policemen shall report themselves for duty at the office of the
Chief, or at the rendezvous as he or she shall appoint, at such times as
directed by him or her, and shall render him or her prompt and energetic
assistance in the execution of his or her duties, and shall devote their time
and attention to the preservation of the peace, quiet and good order of the
city, and especially in the respective districts to which they may be assigned.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.13  POLICE GUILTY OF NEGLECT OF DUTY AND THE LIKE.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by any law or ordinance of the city, who shall,
in the discharge of his or her official duties, be guilty of any fraud,
extortion, oppression, favoritism, partiality, or willful wrong or injustice,
or who shall enter any place where intoxicating liquor is sold while on duty,
except in the discharge of his or her official duty, or who shall use any
intoxicating liquors, or engage in any game of chance while on duty, shall be
dismissed from his or her office by the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.14  APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL POLICEMEN TO SERVE WITH REGULAR POLICE FORCE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized at any time when, in his or her opinion, the
interest of the city demands it, to appoint special policemen as he or she may
deem necessary, to act in conjunction with, and as members of the regular
police force of the city, provided the appointment of the police officers shall
not be for a longer period than 30 days, or until the next regular meeting of
the City Council occurring thereafter.  Such special police officers shall be
under the supervision of the Mayor and of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.15  POLICE BADGES.
   Every member of the Department shall wear a suitable badge to be furnished
by the city, and any member who shall destroy the same will be required to pay
the cost of replacing it; and whenever any member of the Department shall
leave, resign, be suspended or discharged, he or she shall immediately deliver
his or her badge to the Mayor or Chief.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.16  SUSPENSION.
   Any member of the Department may be suspended by the Mayor at any time or by
the City Council at any regular or special meeting thereof.  Report of the
suspension and the reasons therefor, shall thereafter be immediately made to
the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in writing for their further action
in accordance with the provisions of the ILCS.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.17  COMPENSATION.
   The Chief, the Assistant Chief, Sergeants of Police, and Police Patrolmen
shall each receive as compensation for services rendered salaries as may be
fixed in the annual appropriation Ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
§ 35.18  COMPENSATION OF SPECIAL POLICEMEN.
   Special policemen appointed under the provisions of this subchapter shall
receive compensation as the City Council at any regular or special meeting may
allow.
(Ord. 895, passed 1-28-1974)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 35.25  MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Police Department’s manual concerning the rules and regulations for
police officers is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if
set out in full.
(Ord. 968, passed 11-25-1980)
AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS
§ 35.35  APPOINTMENT; AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint auxiliary police officers, as
officers subject to the advice and consent of the City Council.  Prior to
appointment, all proposed auxiliary police officers shall be fingerprinted and
their fingerprints shall be checked with the Federal Bureau of Identification,
Washington, D.C., for any possible criminal record.  No person shall be
appointed as an auxiliary police officers if he or she has been convicted of a
felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.  The appointment of any or all
auxiliary police officers may be terminated by the Mayor subject to the advice
and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-18-1969)
§ 35.36  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular Police
Department of the city. Auxiliary police officers shall be residents of the
city.  Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by the regular Police Department and
shall be selected and chosen by the Chief of Police of the city.  Auxiliary
police officers shall, at all times during the performance of their duties, be
subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police of the city.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-18-1969)
§ 35.37  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Auxiliary police officers shall have the following powers and duties, when
properly assigned and on duty:
   (A)   To aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
   (B)   To aid in control of natural or man made disasters;
   (C)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
   (D)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the Chief
of Police on occasions when it is impracticable for members of the regular
Police Department to perform normal and regular police duties;
   (E)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
   (F)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   (G)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody over night or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
magistrate;
   (H)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
   (I)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of municipal
ordinances, or the state criminal law, within the limits of the city, and for
this purpose to have all the common law and statutory power of sheriffs.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-18-1969)
§ 35.38  CARRYING FIREARMS; PERMISSION FROM CHIEF.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with the
permission of the Chief of Police of the city, and then only when in uniform
and in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-18-1969)
§ 35.39  TRAINING AND UNIFORMS.
   Auxiliary police officers, prior to entering upon any of their duties, shall
receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police procedures
by the Chief of Police of the city.  The course of training shall be not less
than ten hours in duration.  Upon completion of the course of training, the
Chief of Police shall file a certificate attesting to the auxiliary police
officer’s completion of the course, with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-18-1969)
§ 35.40  COMPENSATION.
   Auxiliary police officers shall be paid at the rate as set by City Council,
provided the service is performed at the direction of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-18-1969)
CHAPTER 36:  CODE AND ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Violations
   
36.02   Public service work
   
36.03   Limitations of amendments
   
36.04   Disposition of supervision
Administrative Adjudication
   
36.15   Adoption of state regulations
   
36.16   Definitions
   
36.17   Code Hearing Department
   
36.18   Hearing procedures not exclusive
   
36.19   Instituting hearing proceedings
   
36.20   Subpoenas; defaults
   
36.21   Continuances; representation at code hearings
   
36.22   Hearing; evidence
   
36.23   Qualifications of Hearing Officers
   
36.24   Findings, decision and order
   
36.25   Review under Administration Review Law
   
36.26   Judgement on findings, decision and order
   
36.27   Impact on existing administrative adjudication systems
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  VIOLATIONS.
   All terms, provisions or sections of existing ordinances of the city, which
provide for a fine or penalty for the violation of their respective terms,
provisions or sections, shall be and hereby are amended to provide that the
fine or penalty that may be imposed for any violation shall be a minimum of $50
and a maximum of $750, except as hereinafter provided in §§
36.02 and
36.04.
(Ord. 1318, passed 7-16-1996) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 36.02  PUBLIC SERVICE WORK.
   Any penalty imposed pursuant to
§ 36.01 may include, or consist of, with the consent of the city, a requirement
that the defendant perform some reasonable public service work within the
corporate limits of the city, such as, but not limited to the picking up of
litter in public parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public
facilities.
(Ord. 1318, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 36.03  LIMITATIONS OF AMENDMENTS.
   Sections
36.01 and
36.02 shall not and do not alter, amend, prohibit, repeal or in any other way
effect the terms or provisions of existing ordinances that provide for a
violation to constitute a separate offense on each day it is committed or
permitted to continue.
(Ord. 1318, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 36.04  DISPOSITION OF SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The court may, upon a plea of guilty or a stipulation by the defendant
of the facts supporting a charge or a finding of guilty as to a charge pursuant
to a violation of a term or provision of an existing or future ordinance of the
city, defer further proceedings and the imposition of a fine or penalty
pursuant to the ordinance and enter an order of supervision of the defendant
after considering the circumstances of the defendant, if the court is of the
opinion that:
      (1)   The defendant is not likely to commit further violations;
      (2)   The defendant and the public would be best served if the defendant
was not to receive a record; and
      (3)   In the best interest of justice an order of supervision is more
appropriate than a fine or penalty otherwise permitted under the ordinance.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to a defendant if
prohibited by the provisions of ILCS Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-6-1.  Further, the
court shall consider the statement of the city’s attorney with regard to the
standards set forth therein.
   (C)   When a defendant is placed on supervision, the court shall enter an
order for supervision specifying the period of the supervision and shall defer
further proceedings in the case until the conclusion of the period.  The period
of supervision shall be reasonable under all of the circumstances of the case,
but may not be longer than two years.  The court may in addition to other
reasonable conditions relating to the nature of the violation of the defendant,
as determined for each defendant in the proper discretion of the court, require
that the defendant:
      (1)   Make a report to and appear in person before or participate with
the court or the courts, person or social service agency as directed by the
court in the order of supervision;
      (2)   Pay a fine and costs;
      (3)   Work or pursue a course of study or vocational training;
      (4)   Undergo medical, psychological or psychiatric treatment or
treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism;
      (5)   Support his or her dependents;
      (6)   Refrain from possessing a firearm or other dangerous weapon; and
      (7)   In addition, if a minor:
         (a)   Reside with his or her parents or in a foster home;
         (b)   Attend school;
         (c)   Attend a non-residential program for youth;
         (d)   Contribute to his or her own support at home or in a foster
home;
      (8)   Perform some reasonable public service;
      (9)   Comply with the terms and conditions of an order of protection
issued by the court pursuant to the State Domestic Violence Act of 1986;  (If
the court has ordered the defendant to make a report and appear in person under
division (C)(1) above, a copy of the order of protection shall be transmitted
to the person or agency so designated by the court.)
      (10)   Refrain from entering into a designated geographic area, except
upon the terms as the court finds appropriate;  (The terms may include
consideration of the purpose of the entry, the time of day, other persons
accompanying the defendant and advance approval by the city’s Police
Department.)
      (11)   Refrain from having any contact, directly or indirectly, with
certain specified persons or particular types of person, including, but not
limited to members of street gangs, as defined in ILCS Ch. 740, Act 147, § 10
and drug users or dealers; and
      (12)   Refrain from having in his or her body the presence of any illicit
drug prohibited by the Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et
seq., or the State Controlled Substances Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et
seq., unless prescribed by a physician, and submit samples of his or her blood
or urine or both for tests to determine the presence of any illicit drug.
   (D)   The court shall defer entering any judgment on the charges until the
conclusion of the supervision.
   (E)   At the conclusion of the period of supervision, if the court
determines that the defendant has successfully complied with all of the
conditions of supervision, the court shall discharge the defendant and enter a
judgment dismissing the charges.
   (F)   Discharge and dismissal upon a successful conclusion of a disposition
of supervision shall be deemed without adjudication of guilt and shall not be
termed a conviction for purposes of disqualification or disabilities imposed by
law.
   (G)   A defendant placed on supervision and who during the period of
supervision undergoes mandatory drug or alcohol testing, or both, may be
ordered to pay the costs incidental to the mandatory drug or alcohol testing,
or both, in accordance with the defendant’s ability to pay those costs.
   (H)   A disposition of supervision is a final order for the purposes of
appeal.
   (I)   (1)   Upon the oral or written motion of the city, or on the court’s
own motion, which charges that a violation of a condition of supervision has
occurred, the court may:
         (a)   Conduct a hearing instanter if the defendant is present in
court;
         (b)   Order the issuance by the Circuit Clerk of a notice to the
defendant to be present for a hearing for violation;
         (c)   Order summons to the defendant to be present; or
         (d)   Order a warrant for the defendant’s arrest.
      (2)   The oral motion, if the defendant is present, or the issuance of
the warrant, summons or notice shall toll the period of supervision until the
final determination of the charge, and the term of supervision shall not run
until the hearing and disposition of the petition for violation.
      (3)   The court shall admit the defendant to bail pending the hearing.
      (4)   The city has the burden of going forward with the evidence and
proving the violation by the preponderance of the evidence.  The evidence shall
be presented in open court with the right of confrontation and cross-
examination.
      (5)   Supervision shall not be revoked for failure to comply with the
conditions of supervision which imposed financial obligations upon the
defendant unless the failure is due to his or her wilful refusal to pay.
      (6)   If the court finds that the defendant has violated a condition of
supervision at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period,
the court may continue defendant on the existing supervision with or without
modifying or enlarging the conditions or may impose any other fine or penalty
that was available under divisions (I)(1) and (I)(2) above at the time of the
initial sentencing.
      (7)   The conditions of supervision may be modified by the court on
motion of the city’s attorney or on its own motion or at the request of the
defendant after notice to the defendant and a hearing.
      (8)   A judgment revoking supervision is a final appealable order.
(Ord. 1318, passed 7-16-1996)
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
§ 36.15  ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   The municipality hereby adopts ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq.,
Division 2.2, in its current form and as it may be amended from time to time
for adjudication of municipal code violations to the extent permitted by the
State Constitution.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE.  Any ordinance of the municipality, except for:
      (1)   Building code violations that must be adjudicated pursuant to ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31.1 in its current form and as may be amended from time to
time; and
      (2)   Any offense under the State Vehicle Code or a similar offense that
is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for any
reportable offense under § 6204 of the State Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5.
   HEARING OFFICER.  An employee or an officer or agent of the municipality,
other than a law enforcement officer, whose duty it is to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from all interested parties
relevant to the existence of a code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the transcript and record of the hearing
and all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision, and order stating
whether a code violation exists.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.17  CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Code Hearing Department in the
government of the municipality.  The function is to expedite the prosecution
and correction of code violations in the manner set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Code Hearing Department may adjudicate any violation of the
ordinances of the municipality, except for:
      (1)   Building code violations that must be adjudicated pursuant to ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1 et seq., Division 31.1, in its current form and as
amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Any offense under the State Vehicle Code or similar offense that is
a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for any
reportable offense under § 6-204 of the State Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.18  HEARING PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   This subchapter does not preclude the municipality from using other methods
to enforce the provisions of its code.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.19  INSTITUTING HEARING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   When a police officer or other individual authorized to issue a code
violation finds a code violation to exist, he or she shall note the violation
on a multiple copy violation notice and report form that indicates:
      (1)   The name and address of the defendant;
      (2)   The type and nature of the violation;
      (3)   The date and time the violation was observed; and
      (4)   The names of the witnesses of the violation.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Code Hearing
Department where a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report
and a hearing date shall be noted in the blank spaces provided for that purpose
on the form.  The hearing date shall not be less than 30, nor more than 40 days
after the violation is reported.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Hearing Department and shall be part of the record of hearing, one
copy of the report form shall be returned to the individual representing the
municipality in the case so that he or she may prepare evidence of the code
violation for presentation at the hearing on the date indicated, and one copy
of the report form shall be served by first class mail to the defendant along
with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.20  SUBPOENAS; DEFAULTS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer assigned to hear
the case may, at the request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and
give testimony at the hearing.  If, on the date set for the hearing, the
defendant or his or her attorney fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find
the defendant in default and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence
relevant to the existence of a code violation.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.21  CONTINUANCES; REPRESENTATION AT CODE HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer in
proceedings under this subchapter, except in cases where a continuance is
absolute necessary to protect the rights of the defendant.
      (2)   Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance.  Any
continuance authorized by a Hearing Officer under this subchapter shall not
exceed 25 days.
   (B)   The case for the municipality may be presented by an attorney
designated by the municipality or by any other municipal employee, except that
the case for the municipality shall not be presented by any employee of the
Hearing Code Department.
   (C)   The case for the defendant may be presented by the defendant, his or
her attorney, or any other agent or representative of the defendant.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.22  HEARING; EVIDENCE.
   At the hearing, a Hearing Officer shall preside, shall hear testimony and
shall accept any evidence relevant to the existence or non-existence of a code
violation.  The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply to hearings authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.23  QUALIFICATIONS OF HEARING OFFICERS.
   (A)   Prior to conducting proceedings under this subchapter, Hearing
Officers shall successfully complete a formal training program that includes
the following:
      (1)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the hearing that they will
conduct;
      (2)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will administer;
      (3)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      (4)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including rules on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   (B)   In addition, every Hearing Officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state for at least three years.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.24  FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   (A)   (1)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make
a determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing as to
whether or not a code violation exists.  The determination shall be in writing
and shall be designated as findings, decision and order.
      (2)   The findings, decision and order shall include:
         (a)   The Hearing Officer’s findings of fact;
         (b)   A decision of whether or not a code violation exists based upon
the findings of fact; and
         (c)   An order that states the sanction or dismisses the case if a
violation is not proved.
   (B)   (1)   A monetary sanction for a violation under this subchapter shall
not exceed the amount provided for in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1 in its
current form and as amended from time to time.  A copy of the findings,
decision and order shall be served on the defendant within five days after it
is issued.
      (2)   Service shall be in the same manner that the report form and
summons are served hereunder.  Payment of any penalty or fine and the
disposition of fine money shall be in the same manner as set forth in the code
unless the corporate authorities of the municipality provide otherwise.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.25  REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATION REVIEW LAW.
   The findings, decision and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of the county, in which the municipality’s
principal office is located.  The provisions of the Administrative Review Law
and the rules adopted pursuant thereto shall apply to and govern every action
for the judicial review of the findings, decisions and order of a Hearing
Officer under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.26  JUDGMENT ON FINDINGS, DECISION AND ORDER.
   (A)   A fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures under the Administrative Review
Law shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   After expiration of the period within which judicial review
under the Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of
the code violation, the municipality may command a proceeding in the Circuit
Court of the county, in which the municipality’s principal office is located,
for purpose of obtaining a judgment of findings, decision and order.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from
consolidating multiple findings, decisions and orders against a person in a
proceeding.  Upon commencement of the action, the municipality shall file a
certified copy of the findings, decision and order, which shall be accompanied
by a certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings,
decision and order was issued in accordance with this subchapter and the
applicable city ordinances.  Service of the summons and a copy of the petition
may be by any method provided that the total amount of fines, other sanctions
and costs imposed by the findings, decision and order does not exceed $2,500.
      (3)   If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision and order was
entered in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and the
applicable city ordinance and that the defendant had an opportunity for a
hearing under this subchapter and for judicial review as provided in this
subchapter.
         (a)   The court shall render judgment in favor of the municipality and
against the defendant for the amount indicated in the findings, decision and
order, plus costs.  The judgment shall have the same effect and may be enforced
in the same manner and other judgments for the recovery of money.
         (b)   The court may also issue any other orders and injunctions that
are requested by the municipality to enforce the order of the Hearing Officer
to correct a code violation.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 36.27  IMPACT ON EXISTING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEMS.
   This subchapter shall not affect the validity of systems of administrative
adjudication that were authorized by state law, including the municipality’s
ordinances, and in existence prior to the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1476, passed 1-26-1999)
CHAPTER 37:  CITY POLICIES
Section
Acceptance of Gifts; State Gift Ban Act
   
37.001   Adoption of Act
   
37.002   Ethics Officer
   
37.003   State Legislative Commission; complaints
   
37.004   Future amendments to Act
Sexual Harassment; Other Forms of Harassment
   
37.015   Work environment
   
37.016   Examples
   
37.017   Retaliation
   
37.018   Reporting procedure
   
37.019   Hearing procedure
   
37.020   Violations; penalties
   
37.021   Other legal recourse
Municipal Fees and Fines
   
37.035   Law enforcement agencies; holding facilities
   
37.036   Public records; reproduction and certification
   
37.037   Prosecution assessing fees
   
37.038   Demolition fees
   
37.039   Credit card fees
Drug and Alcohol Abuse Policies
   
37.050   Compliance procedures
   
37.051   Drug-free workplace
Official City Time; Adoption of Regulations
   
37.065   Daylight Savings Time; adoption
   
37.066   References; official time
   
37.067   Public buildings
Americans with Disabilities Act Self-Evaluation and Transition Plan
   
37.075   Adoption of Americans with Disabilities Act self-evaluation and
transition plan
Travel Expense Control Act
   
37.090   Travel Expense Control Act
Claims under PSEBA
   
37.105   Purpose
   
37.106   Definitions
   
37.107   Application procedure
   
37.108   Administrative composition
   
37.109   Administrative hearing
Cross-reference:
   Ethics, see
Ch. 40
ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS; STATE GIFT BAN ACT
§ 37.001  ADOPTION OF ACT.
   The State Gift Ban Act, hereinafter referred to as the “Act,” is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1488, passed 5-4-1999)
Editor’s note:
   House Bill 3412, effective November 19, 2003, repealed ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425
(the Gift Ban Act)
§ 37.002  ETHICS OFFICER.
   (A)   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by ILCS Ch.
5, Act 425, § 35, the Mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, appoint annually a person to serve as the Ethics Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Ethics Officer’s duties shall be as providers in ILCS Ch. 5, Act
425, § 35.
(Ord. 1488, passed 5-4-1999)
§ 37.003  STATE LEGISLATIVE COMMISSION; COMPLAINTS.
   All complaints for violations of the Act and this subchapter shall be filed
with the State Legislative Ethics Commission, created by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 425, §
45(a)(6).
(Ord. 1488, passed 5-4-1999)
§ 37.004  FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO ACT.
   (A)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the passage of
this subchapter shall be incorporated into this subchapter by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation and acceptance of gifts.
   (B)   However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption
by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this subchapter by reference
without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(Ord. 1488, passed 5-4-1999)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT; OTHER FORMS OF HARASSMENT
§ 37.015  WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city that its employees have a right to work
in an environment free of sexual and other forms of harassment from fellow
employees and from non-employees.
   (B)   Sexual harassment in the workplace includes unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual
nature when:
      (1)   Submission to the conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of the conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting the individual; or
      (3)   The conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with the individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive work environment.
   (C)   (1)   Other forms off harassment in the workplace include unwelcome
verbal and/or non- verbal conduct based upon race, color, religion, national
origin, age, handicap or other protected status, including, but not limited to
ethnic jokes, slurs and name calling.
      (2)   The standards and procedures set forth in division (B) above for
sexual harassment apply equally to these other forms of harassment.
      (3)   Any employee who believes that he or she is being subjected to
sexual or other forms of harassment, is to immediately report the conduct to
the city administration, as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 37.016  EXAMPLES.
   (A)   Sexual or other forms of harassment prohibited by this policy includes
verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct.
   (B)   The terms “intimidating,” “hostile” or “offensive,” as used above,
include conduct which has the effect of humiliation, embarrassment or
discomfort.
      (1)   Examples of verbal harassment include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Explicit propositions;
         (b)   Innuendo;
         (c)   Suggestive comments;
         (d)   Foul or obscene language;
         (e)   Insults of a sexual or of another protected status nature; and
         (f)   Humor or jokes about sex or of other protected status.
      (2)   Examples of non-verbal harassment include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Suggestive or insulting sounds;
         (b)   Leering;
         (c)   Whistling;
         (d)   Obscene gestures; or
         (e)   Display of foul or obscene printed or visual material.
      (3)   Examples of physical sexual harassment include, but are not limited
to:
         (a)   Sexual touching;
         (b)   Patting or pinching of a sexual nature;
         (c)   Intentional brushing the body;
         (d)   Coerced sexual intercourse; and
         (e)   Sexual assault.
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 37.017  RETALIATION.
   It is a violation of this policy for any employee to retaliate or to take
reprisal in any way against anyone who has articulated any concern about sexual
or other forms of harassment against the person raising the concern or against
another individual.
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 37.018  REPORTING PROCEDURE.
   The following procedure shall be used by any employee who suspects that he
or she has been subjected to sexual or other forms of harassment or
retaliation.
   (A)   Step 1.
      (1)   Any employee, who suspects he or she is the victim of sexual or
other forms of harassment or retaliation by another employee or non-employee,
shall first present a written complaint within 90 days of the date of the
sexual or other forms of harassment or retaliation to either the Mayor’s
designate or to the employee’s immediate supervisor, who shall forward same
immediately to the Mayor’s designate.  If the Mayor’s designate or supervisor
is the subject of the complaint, then the complaint should be presented
directly to the Mayor.
      (2)   The complaint shall be specific as to the date, nature and type of
sexual or other forms of harassment or retaliation complained of; how and when
the sexual or other forms of harassment or retaliation affected the complaining
employee’s work environment; and the names of any witnesses thereto.
   (B)   Step 2.
      (1)   The Mayor’s designate shall meet with the complainant and the
alleged offender within five working days of receiving the complaint to discuss
the allegations.  If either the complainant or alleged offender choose to have
a representative, then the Mayor’s designate may also have a representative;
the meeting, however, shall be informal.
      (2)   The Mayor’s designate shall issue a written decision within five
working days of the meeting.
   (C)   Step 3.
      (1)   If the complainant or alleged offender is not satisfied with the
Mayor’s designate’s decision, within five working days of the date of that
decision, an appeal may be taken to the Mayor.  The appeal shall be in writing
and shall state the reasons for appealing the Mayor’s designate’s decision.
      (2)   (a)   Within five working days of receiving the appeal or a
complaint directly, the Mayor shall meet with the complainant, the alleged
offender, the Mayor’s designate, any representatives and other persons
determined to be necessary, to resolve the matter.
         (b)   The Mayor shall issue a written decision within ten working days
of this meeting.
   (D)   Step 4.
      (1)   If the complainant or the alleged offender is not satisfied with
the Mayor’s decision, then within ten working days, an appeal of that decision
may be made to the entire City Council.  Such an appeal shall be in writing and
be instituted by filing with the Clerk of the city a statement setting forth
the reasons for the appeal.
      (2)   Within 20 working days of receiving an appeal, the City Council
shall conduct a due process hearing on the allegations of sexual or other forms
of harassment or retaliation.  The rules of evidence shall not apply; however,
hearsay evidence shall not be presented for proof of any ultimate facts.
      (3)   Within ten working days after the hearing, the City Council shall
issue its written decision, which shall be a final decision of the city and
subject to review under the Administrative Review Act, ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§
3-101 et seq.
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 37.019  HEARING PROCEDURE.
   All meetings or hearings in Steps one through four in §
37.018 shall be held in private and at times convenient for the parties. In the
event that the person designated to hear a complaint is the alleged offender,
then the employee may immediately move to the next step of the procedure. At
any step, the person or the entity hearing the complaint may conduct or direct
the investigation as they deem appropriate, including obtaining a response from
the alleged offender. There shall be no harassment or retaliation by any person
involved in the process for any reason.
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 37.020  VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   In Step two in §
37.018, any employee found to have sexually or otherwise harassed another
employee in violation of the provisions of this subchapter or retaliated
against an employee who alleged sexual or other forms of harassment in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter will be subject to discipline up
to and including a five-day suspension without pay.
   (B)   On complaints directed to the Mayor in Step three in §
37.018, any employee found to have sexually or otherwise harassed another
employee in violation of the provisions of this subchapter or retaliated
against an employee who alleged sexual or other harassment in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter will be subject to discipline up to and including
a 30-day suspension without pay or discharge, depending upon the facts
presented.
   (C)   In all appeal hearings pursuant to Steps three and four in §
37.018, the Mayor and City Council may sustain the prior decision, or may
reverse the prior decision with instructions that the employee receive any loss
pay for the period involved, or may suspend the employee for an additional 30
days or discharge the employee, depending upon the facts presented.
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
§ 37.021  OTHER LEGAL RECOURSE.
   (A)   Any employee may also use the legal recourse, investigative and
complaint process available through the State Department of Human Rights and
Human Rights Commission.
   (B)   The address and telephone number are:
      Illinois Department of Human Rights
      222 South College, Room 101A
      Springfield, IL 62700
      (217) 785-5100
(Ord. 1475, passed 1-26-1999)
MUNICIPAL FEES AND FINES
§ 37.035  LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES; HOLDING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City’s Police Department may refuse permission to any law
enforcement agency to use the Police Department’s holding facilities for its
detainee(s) who are determined, before or during their detention therein, to be
unruly, disruptive, suicidal and/or in need of any special or medical service
or treatment.
   (B)   (1)   A fee of $30 per day shall be charged to any law enforcement
agency which is permitted to use the City’s Police Department’s holding
facilities because the agency does not have the facilities.
      (2)   This fee is calculated to reasonably reimburse the City’s Police
Department for the expenses of maintenance and repair incurred and the supplies
and/or meals necessitated by the use of the City’s Police Department’s holding
facilities, but does not include therein the costs for any other services which
may be provided by the city.
   (C)   Any law enforcement agency granted permission to use the City’s Police
Department’s holding facilities shall remain solely and primarily responsible
and liable for the providing of any special or medical needs of its detainee(s)
and shall, upon request by the City’s Police Department, immediately remove the
detainee(s) from the City’s Police Department’s holding facilities when they
become unruly, disruptive, suicidal and/or in need of any special or medical
service or treatment.
(Ord. 1390, passed 1-13-1998)
§ 37.036  PUBLIC RECORDS; REPRODUCTION AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   A schedule of fees for reproduction and/or certification of the public
records of the city, which is calculated to reasonably reimburse the city for
the city’s actual costs for reproducing and certifying public records and for
the use, by any person, of the city’s equipment, material and/or supplies to
copy the public records, and which does not include therein the costs for any
search for and review of requested records is hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Reproductions/photo copies on paper 8 inches by 11 inches and/or 8
inches by 14 inches:
         (a)   Minimum fee, includes five pages:  $2.50.
         (b)   Additional pages in excess of five pages:  $.50 each.
         (c)   Reduction or increase of page size:  $.50 each.
      (2)   Certification:
         (a)   First record:  $10.
         (b)   Additional records:  $5 each.
         (c)   Multiple records:  $25 each.
   (B)   All requests to the city for reproduction and/or certification of the
city’s public records must be accompanied with a non-refundable payment
covering the costs or, in the event it is difficult to determine the actual
costs because of the nature or volume of the request and/or the requested
public documents, the estimated costs of reproduction and/or certification of
the public records.  In the event that the payment has been for estimated
costs, the reproduced and/or certified public records shall not be delivered to
the party requesting same until the costs for same has been determined and paid
in full. Upon failure to pay any balance due the city for reproduction and/or
certification of the public records, all payments made shall be deemed
forfeited and applied as and for liquidated damages incurred by the city.
   (C)   In the event the corporate authorities of the city determine that a
waiver or reduction of the fees established in division (A) above is in the
public interest, the corporate authorities may provide that the requested
documents and/or certifications be furnished without charge or at a reduced
charge.  Waiver or reduction of the fee is in the public interest if the
principal purpose of the request is to access and disseminate information
regarding the health, safety and welfare or the legal rights of the general
public and is not for the principal purpose of personal or commercial benefit. 
In setting the amount of the waiver or reduction, the corporate authorities may
take into consideration the amount of materials requested and the costs of
copying them.
(Ord. 1257, passed 6-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1262, passed 8-1-1995)
§ 37.037  PROSECUTION ASSESSING FEES.
   In all suits prosecuted by the city’s Legal Department, there shall be
assessed a fee of $5 payable to the city.
(Ord. 844, passed 9-1-1970)
§ 37.038  DEMOLITION FEES.
   (A)   The following fees are hereby established for demolition of structures
within the corporate limits of the city by employees, agents and/or servants of
the city:
      (1)   For the demolition of one and one-half or two level residential
structures:  $4,500.
      (2)   For the demolition of a one level residential structure: $4,500.
      (3)   For sheds, garages and other out buildings:  $1,000 or time and
material, whichever is greater.
      (4)   For commercial or industrial buildings of any kind or nature:  Time
and material.
      (5)   Time and material shall include all direct and indirect costs
incurred by the city for labor, equipment and disposal of demolition debris and
shall be determined by the Public Works Director.
   (B)   The fees, as set forth in division (A) above, shall be paid to the
City Comptroller prior to the commencement of any demolition by city employees.
   (C)   The fees shall not be waived, except by action of the City Council, in
open meeting, and after sufficient proof of an applicant’s inability to pay the
fees is presented to the City Council.
(Ord. 1124, passed 10-20-1987; Am. Ord. 1371, passed 8-12-1997; Am. Ord. 1694,
passed 9-4-2007; Am. Ord. 1751, passed 12-4-2012)
§ 37.039  CREDIT CARD FEES.
   The greater of the following fees be charged on payments or charges made for
city fees, goods and services paid by credit card:
   (A)   2.25% of the cost of the fees and charges (per transaction); or
   (B)   A minimum of $1 per transaction.
(Ord. 1820, passed 7-10-2018)
DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICIES
§ 37.050  COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Mayor and City Council shall allow alcohol and tobacco compliance
check procedures to be in full force and affect upon passage.
   (B)   A suitable copy of this shall be forwarded to the Chief of Police and
Patrol Commander.
(Res. 01-68, passed 10-9-2001)
   (C)   The city shall adopt appropriate drug and alcohol abuse policies.
(Ord. 1272, passed 11-8-1995; Am. Ord. 1274, passed 12-5-1995)
§ 37.051  DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that it will
maintain a drug-free workplace and, in order to secure a workplace for the
employees of the city, the terms and provisions of this section shall be and
hereby are made, in addition to any other requirements the city may now have or
hereafter add, conditions of employment for all employees of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  A controlled substance as defined in Schedules I
through V of 21 USC 812, or as defined by the state in its statutes.
      CONVICTION.  A plea or finding of guilt (including, but not limited to a
plea of nolo contendre) or the imposition of a sentence (including, but not
limited to orders of supervision, conditional discharge and the like), or both,
by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of
the federal or state criminal drug statutes.
      CRIMINAL DRUG STATUTE.  A criminal statute involving manufacture,
distribution, dispensation, use or possession of any controlled substance.
      DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.  Any workplace where employees are prohibited from
engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or
use of a controlled substance.
      EMPLOYEE.  An employee of the city directly engaged in the performance of
work for the city.
      FEDERAL AGENCY.  An agency, as that term is defined in 5 USC 552(f).
      WORKPLACE.  Any site for the performance of work by an employee, whether
the performance of work is done inside or outside of the corporate boundaries
of the city.
   (C)   The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or
use of a controlled substance by an employee is strictly prohibited in the
workplace.
   (D)   A drug-free awareness program shall be established by the Mayor and
City Council to inform employees about:
      (1)   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
      (2)   The city’s policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
      (3)   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee
assistance programs; and
      (4)   The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse
violations.
   (E)   Any employee convicted of any criminal drug statute for a violation
occurring in the workplace shall notify his or her department head or the
Mayor, if he or she is or has no department head, no later than five days after
the conviction.
   (F)   Any employee convicted of any criminal drug statute for a violation
occurring in the workplace and/or failure to give notice, as required in
division (E) above, will be for each action:
      (1)   Appropriately disciplined up to and including termination; or
      (2)   Required, if this is a first the conviction, to satisfactorily
participate in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for
such purposes by a federal, state, local health, law enforcement or other
appropriate agency.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the Police
Department, a law enforcement agency, if the Chief of Police determines, in
writing, it would be inappropriate in connection with the Police Department’s
undercover operations, to comply with the provisions of this section.
   (H)   An appropriate statement, captioned “Statement On A Drug-Free
Workplace,” shall be prepared in compliance with the terms and provisions of
this section and the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988,  41 USC 701 et seq., and
served on each present employee of the city and each future employee of the
city at the time of hiring.
(Ord. 1224, passed 11-23-1993)
OFFICIAL CITY TIME; ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS
§ 37.065  DAYLIGHT SAVINGS TIME; ADOPTION.
   United States standard time for the zone in which the city is located shall
be the official time of the city, but if that time is not later than the mean
astronomical time of the ninetieth degree of longitude west from Greenwich, the
official time for the city shall be advanced one hour from 2 a.m. on the last
Sunday in April until 2 a.m. on the last Sunday in October, in each year.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-23-1946; Am. Ord. 706, passed 9-4-1956)
§ 37.066  REFERENCES; OFFICIAL TIME.
   (A)   (1)   When reference is made to any time without qualification in any
ordinance, resolution or order heretofore passed or which may be passed
hereafter by the City Council or in any official notice, advertisement or
document of the city or in any contract to which the city is a party, it shall
be understood to refer to the official time of the city as herein described.
      (2)   When the words, “Daylight Saving Time” are used, the reference
shall be to the advanced time herein prescribed as the official time from the
last Sunday in April until the last Sunday in September.
   (B)   In all ordinances, resolutions or orders of the City Council and in
all official notices, advertisements or documents of the city and in all
contracts to which the city is a party relating to the time of performance of
any act by any officer or department of the city or relating to the time with
which any rights shall accrue or determine or within which any act shall or
shall not be performed by any person, it shall be understood and intended that
the time shall be the official time of the city as herein prescribed.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-23-1946; Am. Ord. 706, passed 9-4-1956)
§ 37.067  PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   All clocks or other time-pieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained at the expense of the city shall be set and run according
to the official time, as provided herein.  It is hereby made the duty of the
officer or other person having control and charge of the building or buildings
and premises that the clocks or other time-pieces are set and run in accordance
with official time.
(Ord. 593, passed 4-23-1946; Am. Ord. 706, passed 9-4-1956)
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT SELF-EVALUATION AND TRANSITION PLAN
§ 37.075  ADOPTION OF AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT SELF-EVALUATION AND
TRANSITION PLAN.
   The self-evaluation and transition plan dated January 2015 for the city,
prepared by Juneau Associates, Inc., P.C. and captioned, “Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 Self-Evaluation and Transition Plan for Madison, IL,”
a copy of which is attached to Ordinance 1772 and incorporated herein by
reference, shall be and hereby is approved and adopted by the city. The plan is
adopted herein by reference as if set forth fully herein, and is available for
inspection in the city offices during normal business hours.
(Ord. 1772, passed 3-10-2015)
TRAVEL EXPENSE CONTROL ACT
§ 37.090  TRAVEL EXPENSE CONTROL ACT.
   (A)   The City of Madison is a unit of local government which is not home
rule, and is subject to the requirements of ILCS Ch. 55, Act 150, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   The City of Madison has enacted regulations for travel expenses to
comply with the requirements of the zct.
   (C)   The City of Madison has adopted a standardized form (as attached to
Ord. 18-14) to document the expenses for which payment or reimbursement is
sought.
   (D)   The City of Madison establishes a threshold amount allowable for
travel expense payment or reimbursement without a vote of the City Council in
the amount of less than $750.
   (E)   The City of Madison has defined the types of official business for
which travel expenses are allowed, as follows: To meet continuing education
requirements, to attend LML, IMEA, IMUA, APPA, ITIA, EDC-Mid-America-Economic
Development Council, and other conferences and meetings to attend conferences
or meetings for any organization of which the city is a member, to expand or
enhance knowledge pertaining to government field of expertise through national
or state recognized associations, to participate in state or national
government related meetings, associations or forum which affect the city for
training or education purposes, to meet with attorneys, professionals,
engineers, architects, or advisors about city related business, any other
event, meeting, conference, or training session which is directly related to
the business of the city or which the city would directly benefit.
   (F)   The City of Madison has mandated that any employee, official or
officer complete and submit the standard form (as attached to Ord. 18-14) and
provide documentation for such travel expenses in order to seek payment or
reimbursement.
   (G)   The City of Madison has mandated that payment or reimbursement of the
travel expenses of any member of the City Council or an elected official of the
City of Madison must be approved by a roll-call vote during an open meeting of
the City Council.
   (H)   The City of Madison has mandated that the travel expenses of any
employee, official or officer that exceed the maximum allowable amount under
the regulation adopted must be approved by a roll-call vote during an open
meeting of the City Council.
   (I)   The City of Madison has prohibited all payments or reimbursements for
entertainment unless otherwise permitted as set forth in the act.
(Ord. 18-14, passed 11-14-2017)
CLAIMS UNDER PSEBA
§ 37.105  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
determining the eligibility of a full-time employee for the benefits enumerated
under PSEBA through an administrative process, including if necessary, an
administrative hearing.
(Ord. 1816, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 37.106  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms will have the
following meanings. These definitions are derived from the federal Public
Health and Welfare Act, which was enacted in 1944 and amended in 1984 to
define, by inclusion or reference, the following terms.
   (B)   For use in this chapter, provisions containing the words MAYOR,
COMMISSIONER, ALDERMAN, or CITY COUNCIL also apply to the president, trustee,
council member and boards of trustees so fax as the provisions are applicable
to them.
      CATASTROPHIC INJURY. An injury, the direct and proximate consequences of
which permanently prevent an individual from performing any gainful work.
      GAINFUL WORK. Full-or part-time activity that actually is compensated or
commonly is compensated.
      INJURY. A traumatic physical wound (or a traumatized physical condition
of the body) directly and proximately caused by external force (such as
bullets, explosives, sharp instruments, blunt objections, or physical blows),
chemicals electricity, climate conditions, infectious disease, radiation,
virii, or bacteria, but does not include:
         (a)   Any occupational disease; or
         (b)   Any condition of the body caused or occasioned by stress or
strain.
(Ord. 1816, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 37.107  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   As noted by the Court in Englum, “while the Act contained substantive
requirements for section 10 eligibility, the Act contained no procedural
requirements for determining whether a former employee met the substantive
criteria.” This chapter and the application procedure of this section
establishes guidance on the proper procedural requirements for Public Safety
Officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the city.
   (A)   Public safety officers, or family members(s) of an injured or deceased
public safety officer. (“Applicant”) must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within 30 days of filing a pension claim with the city
or within 30 days of the date of the adoption of this chapter in the event that
an applicant has filed for a PSEBA claim prior to the date of adoption of this
chapter, whichever is later, if the applicant is seeking benefits under PSEBA.
The city shall notify applicant if the PSEBA application is incomplete and
applicant shall have five days to remedy his/her application. Failure to timely
file the full and complete application shall result in a forfeiture of the
benefits under PSEBA by failure to properly submit a complete application.
   (B)   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury, and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to said claim);
      (2)   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the city's
satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
         (a)   Response to fresh pursuit;
         (b)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         (c)   An umawful act perpetrated by another; or
         (d)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
      (3)   A signed PSEBA medial authorization release which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident including, but not limited
to, disability pension proceedings, worker's compensation records, and medical
records and which specifies the name and address for pertinent health care
provider(s);
      (4)   A signed PSEBA general information release specifying the name and
signature of the Applicant or her/his authorized representative along with
legal proof of said representation and name and signature of witness
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process;
      (5)   The name(s) of any witnesses to the incident;
      (6)   The name(s) of any witnesses the applicant intends to call at the
PSEBA hearing;
      (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate pension board;
      (8)   Information which satisfies the PSEBA eligibility requirements; and
      (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   (C)   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the Office of the Mayor,
City of Madison, Illinois in its entirety.
   (D)   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   (E)   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the city,
the completed application shall then be submitted to the city as the
Preliminary Record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and provided
to the applicant.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the city
shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a hearing officer to
make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA benefits based on
the result of the administrative hearing.
   (G)   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than ten days prior to
the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant
must contact the hearing officer in writing within seven days after being
served. The hearing officer shall establish an alternative hearing date which
is within 30 days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at the
administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits.
(Ord. 1816, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 37.108  ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a hearing
officer whose authority and limitations are as follows:
   (A)   Authority of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall have all
of the authorities granted to her/him under common law relative to the conduct
of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
      (1)   Preside over city hearings involving PSEBA;
      (2)   Administer oaths;
      (3)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      (4)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties of
then-representatives;
      (5)   Rule upon objections as to the admissibility of evidence;
      (6)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (7)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include
written findings of fact, decision and order.
   (B)   Hearing officer. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the position of
hearing officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall come before this
city. In making said selection, the following information should be considered,
at a minimum:
      (1)   The individual's ability to comply with the job description set
forth herein; and
      (2)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois and have knowledge of and experience in employment and labor
law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative
practice.
(Ord. 1816, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 37.109  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   The system of administrative hearings for the determination of eligibility
for benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the city or by the
applicant after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA application. An
administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is found
eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the act.
   (A)   Record. The city shall ensure that all hearings are attended by a
certified court reporter and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by
said certified court reporter and a copy be provided to the applicant within 28
days of the date of the administrative hearing.
   (B)   Procedures. The city and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and present witnesses,
testimony and documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may request
the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents.
   (C)   Evidence. The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the hearing officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the hearing officer. The hearing officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
   (D)   Final determination. A written determination by the hearing officer of
whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under PSEBA
shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Burden of proof. At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings conducted under this chapter shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
   (F)   Administrative records. All records pertaining to the administrative
process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant's name with the
city.
(Ord. 1816, passed 2-20-2018)
CHAPTER 38:  PERSONNEL
Section
   
38.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
§ 38.01  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s personnel regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 39:  EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCIES
Section
   
39.01   Creation of Board
   
39.02   Coordinator
   
39.03   Functions
   
39.04   Service as mobile support team
   
39.05   Agreement with other political subdivisions
   
39.06   Emergency action
   
39.07   Compensation
   
39.08   Reimbursement by state
   
39.09   Purchases and expenditures
   
39.10   Oath
   
39.11   Office space designated
   
39.12   Appropriation and tax levy
   
39.13   Rescue fees
   
39.14   Volunteer Fire Protection Assistance costs and fees
§ 39.01  CREATION OF BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a board relating to Emergency Services and
Disaster Agencies, known hereafter as ESDA, to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage or other hostile action, or from natural or man-made disaster, in
accordance with the Emergency Management Agency Act of 1988, ILCS Ch. 20, Act
3305, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and additional members as
may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.02  COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
serve until removed by the same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any person designated by him or her shall be
and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.03  FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The ESDA shall perform ESDA functions within the city as shall be
prescribed in and by the State ESDA plan and program, prepared by the Governor,
and orders, rules and regulations, as may be promulgated by the Governor.
   (B)   The ESDA, in addition, shall perform duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi- municipality entered into, as
provided in the Emergency Management Agency Act of 1988, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305,
§§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.04  SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the city’s ESDA organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the State
Emergency Management Agency, as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of the mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the City ESDA organization.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of a mobile support team, who is a city employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the Director of the
State Emergency Management Agency, shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to the employment or office.
      (2)   Any member who is not a paid officer or employee of the city, while
so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation, as provided
by the law.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.05  AGREEMENT WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor and by the Director of the
State Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.06  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the City ESDA to
cooperate fully with the state ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.07  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the city, if
called for training by the Director of the State Emergency Management Agency,
shall receive for the time spent in the training the same rate of pay as is
attached to the position held.  Members who are not city employees or officers
shall receive for the training time the compensation as may be established by
the Mayor.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.08  REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the Director of the State Emergency
Management Agency, compensation for services and expenses of members of a
mobile support team while serving outside the city in response to a call by the
Governor or Director of the State Emergency Management Agency, as provided by
law, and any other reimbursement made by the state, incident to ESDA
activities, as provided by law.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.09  PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor may, on recommendation of the City Coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the city in a position
to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear
or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of the
disaster or from man-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the City Coordinator
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the city, to procure the services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the Emergency Management Agency Act of 1988, ILCS Ch. 20, Act
3305, §§ 1 et seq.  If the Mayor meets at the time, he or she shall act subject
to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.10  OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the City ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
“I,                                                                        , do
solemnly swear that I will support and defend and bear true faith and
allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the
State of Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and facilities thereof,
both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take
this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about
to enter.  And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I
nor have I been a member of any political party or organization that advocates
the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force
or violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the ESDA
organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence.”
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.11  OFFICE SPACE DESIGNATED.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a city building, or elsewhere,
as may be provided for by the Mayor for the City ESDA as its office.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.12  APPROPRIATION AND TAX LEVY.
   The Mayor may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner provided
by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to exceed
$.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all
other taxes, as provided by the Emergency Management Agency Act of 1988, ILCS
Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq., however, that amount collectible under the levy
shall, in no event, exceed $.25 per capita.
(Ord. 1552, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 39.13  RESCUE FEES.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-5 and ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-6,
parties as defined in said legislation shall be charged for specialized and
technical rescue services at the rate of $125 per hour, per vehicle, and $35
per hour, per firefighter involved in providing such services.
(Ord. 1824, passed 8-21-2018)
§ 39.14  VOLUNTEER FIRE PROTECTION ASSISTANCE COSTS AND FEES.
   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-10, parties defined in said
legislation shall be charged for volunteer fire protection assistance services
at a rate of $250 per hour for apparatus and $70 per hour per firefighter
responding to a call for assistance. An additional charge may be levied to
reimburse the district for extraordinary expenses of material used in rendering
suck services. No charge shall be made for services for which the total amount
would be less than $50.
(Ord. 1826, passed 10-2-2018)
CHAPTER 40:  ETHICS
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Prohibited political activities
   
40.03   Gift ban
   
40.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Acceptance of gifts; state gift ban act, see §§
37.01 -
37.04
§ 40.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE.   Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of Presidential or
Vice-Presidential electors, but does not include activities (i) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
(ii) relating to collective bargaining, or (iii) that are otherwise in
furtherance of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in ILCS Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 1-3.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3.
   COMPENSATED TIME.   With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF.  Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in ILCS Ch. 10,
Act 5, § 9-1.4.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person employed by the City of Madison, whether on a full-time
or part-time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The City of Madison.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE.  Any period during which an employee does not receive (i)
compensation for employment, (ii) service credit towards pension benefits, and
(iii) health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER.  A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY.  Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities (i) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, (ii) relating to collective bargaining,
or (iii) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under ILCS
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3, but only with regard to those activities that require
filing with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Means:
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action (i) by an officer or (ii) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business (i) with the officer or (ii)
with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated (i) by the officer or (ii) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 1634, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 40.02  PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the City of
Madison in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employer to perform any prohibited political activity (i) as
part of that officer or employee's duties, (ii) as a condition of employment,
or (iii) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)    No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
   (D)    Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)    No person either (i) in a position that is subject to recognized
merit principles of public employment or (ii) in a position the salary for
which is paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the
Federal Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration applicable to
grant-in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure
solely because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of
a political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 1634, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 40.03  GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Gift ban. Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. Division (A) of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      (3)   Any (i) contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code
or (ii) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions.
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: (i) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; (ii)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and (iii) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are (i) consumed on
the premises from which they were purchased or prepared or (ii) catered. For
the purposes of this section, "catered" means food or refreshments that are
purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, "intra-governmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "inter-governmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   Each of the exceptions listed in this Section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
Section 501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
(Ord. 1634, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
40.02 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days,
and maybe fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
40.03 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001
and not more than $5,000.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500.
   (D)   A violation of §
40.02 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the City of Madison by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   (E)   A violation of §
40.03 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the City of Madison, or, if an Ethics Commission has been created,
by the Commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   (F)    In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §
40.02 or §
40.03 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. 1634, passed 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 41:  CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
41.01   Definitions
   
41.02   Declaration
   
41.03   Curfew authorized
   
41.04   Orders authorized
   
41.05   Duration
   
41.06   Notice
   
41.07   Violations
§ 41.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
   EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      (2)   Any natural disaster, epidemic, or manmade calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits
of the city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 41.02  DECLARATION.
   Whenever an emergency exists, as defined in §
41.01, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a Local State of
Emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under oath, setting
forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the nature of the
emergency and declaring that a Local State of Emergency exists in accordance
with the definitions set forth in this chapter. This declaration must be filed
with the City Clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 41.03  CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   After proclamation of a Local State of Emergency by the Mayor, he or she may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to
the city as a whole, as he or she deems reasonable and advisable, and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she deems necessary
in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 41.04  ORDERS AUTHORIZED.
   After the proclamation of a Local State of Emergency, the Mayor may also, in
the interest of public safety and welfare, and to address the issue caused or
threatened by the emergency, take any or all of the following actions by
executive order during the state of emergency:
   (A)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
   (B)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
   (C)   In the event the Local State of Emergency extends beyond the current
fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the city during the existence of the
Local State of Emergency;
   (D)   Order for the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns
and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (E)   Order for the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (F)   Order for the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
   (G)   Order for the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 41.05  DURATION.
   The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a period of up to
30 days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special meeting of the
City Council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation
of the Mayor or his or her interim emergency successor, indicating that the
civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or his or her interim emergency
successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence of an emergency at
the end of each 30 day period during the time said emergency exists.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 41.06  NOTICE.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the municipal clerk shall
notify the news media situated within the city, and shall cause at least four
copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency and any
curfew to be posted at the following places within the city: the city hall, the
police station, the post office, and in the area of any curfew.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 41.07  VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this section or executive orders
issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the city and shall
be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 1846, passed 3-17-2020)
   TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Monthly charge
   
50.02   Exclusive method of garbage and refuse disposition
   
50.03   Billing; payment
   
50.04   Notice required for transfer
   
50.05   Liability
   
50.06   Vacant dwelling units
   
50.07   Containers
   
50.08   Definition; certain locations
   
50.09   Special pickup regulations
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 95
§ 50.01  MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   A monthly rate and charge of $12 shall be collected from each and
every residential dwelling unit in a single-family or multiple-family
residential dwelling located within the city, except as hereinafter provided
for a building used as a multiple-family residential dwelling with four or more
residential dwelling units therein, for the services provided by the city in
the collection and pickup of garbage and refuse.
   (B)   Disposal of refuse and debris, as defined, such as, but not limited to
indoor and/or outdoor residential fixtures, appliances, furnishings, junk,
debris from remodeling and/or repair of any building or structure and the like
shall be done separate and apart from the collection and pickup of garbage and
refuse as provided hereby.
   (C)   (1)   For a building used as a multiple-family residential dwelling
with four or more residential dwelling units therein, the city may, at its
option, provide or the owner(s) of the building may request dumpster service
for the building instead of individual garbage/refuse container service for
each unit as follows:
 
Number of Residential Dwellings in Minimum Cubic Yard Container     Costs/Month
Joint Use
Four to ten                        Two                              $36
11 to 20                           Three                            $63
                                   Four                             $81
                                   Six                              $117
21 and over                        Greater than six-use combination
                                   (s) of above to arrive at
                                   appropriate number, size, and
                                   costs of Cubic Yard Containers
 
      (2)   Rates and charges, as stated above, shall be made and collected
against each and every owner and/or occupant of a single family and multiple
family residential dwelling and/or unit, as the case may be, situated in the
city.
      (3)   (a)   When there is a building with a residential dwelling use and/
or uses in conjunction with a commercial and/or business uses, hereinafter
referred to as a joint use, the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of the building
which is subject to the joint use may request that dumpster service, up to but
not exceeding a six cubic yard capacity, be provided by the city as follows:
 
Number of Units of Residential Dwelling Minimum Joint Use Cubic Yard Container
in Joint Use
One                                     One
Two to five                             Two
Six to eight                            Three
                                        Use combination(s) of above to arrive
Nine and over                           at appropriate number, size and costs
                                        of cubic yard containers
 
         (b)   For the collection and pick-up of garbage and refuse for the
joint use building at a charge of $9 per month for each and every residential
dwelling unit in the joint use building, plus a minimum commercial business fee
of $20 per month for each commercial and/or business use located in the joint
use building.
      (4)   If additional dumpsters are required for the joint use building,
then the city may provide one additional dumpster, up to but not exceeding six
cubic yard capacity, for each commercial and/or business entity in the joint
use building on an “as available basis” at the city’s commercial /business rate
for same as follows:
 
Cubic Yard Container Cost/Month
One                  $24
Two to four          $34
Six                  $44
 
      (5)   The owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of a residential dwelling unit, who
has been given a special use permit for home occupation under Ch. 155 of this
code of ordinances, as amended, and needs and uses only the garbage/refuse
container for a dwelling unit, shall pay only a monthly residential dwelling
unit rate as provided herein.  However, if there is a need for a garbage/refuse
container larger than the city’s regular garbage/refuse container for a
dwelling unit, the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) shall comply with and pay the
charges for joint use, as provided herein.
   (D)   All garbage and refuse must be placed in and only in the garbage/
refuse container or dumpster, provided by the city for a building used as a
single-family or multiple-family residential dwelling; as a residential
dwelling unit with a home occupation; or for joint use, with the lid closed and
not on, around or about the container or dumpster, except that a residential
dwelling unit from time to time, but not on a regular basis, may place its
overflow garbage or refuse in another container that is closed and/or secured
for pick-up.
   (E)   (1)   The city, upon the request of the owner or occupant of any
residence or business in the city and following the payment of the fees
prescribed below, will provide a roll-off dumpster for the disposal of refuse,
garbage and debris as defined by and provided in Ordinance 1125, Ordinance
1218, Ordinance 1220, Ordinance 1229, Ordinance 1237 and Ordinance 1251.  Any
items that require special handling or disposal pursuant to federal, state or
any other governmental agency laws, regulations or rules dealing with
environmental protection shall not be placed in the roll-off dumpsters.  It
being the intent of the city that handling and/or disposal of those items shall
remain the sole duty and obligation of the owner of same.
      (2)   The following roll-off dumpsters may be rented for seven days with
the indicated fee:
 
20-yard dumpster $240
30-yard dumpster $270
40-yard dumpster $300
 
      (3)   The above fee includes deliver, pick-up and a one time dump at a
landfill within the first seven days.  Each day the renter keeps the dumpster
after seven days will be charged a rate of $10 per day.  Each dump after the
first dump within the rental period shall be charged at a rate of $150 per dump
to be paid when the dumpster is returned to the residence or business.  No
dumpster shall be filled higher than its walls and the renter shall take steps
necessary to ensure the refuse, garbage and debris will stay confined to the
dumpster at all times including during transport to a landfill.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996; Am. Ord. 1718, passed 11-24-2009)
§ 50.02  EXCLUSIVE METHOD OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The garbage and refuse collection services provided by the city by
this chapter shall be the exclusive method for disposition of garbage and
refuse from single-family and multiple-family residential dwelling units within
the city’s corporate limits even if the premise upon which the residential
dwelling unit is located is used in conjunction with other commercial, business
and/or industrial uses, except for disposal of refuse and debris, as provided
in §
50.09, such as but not limited to indoor and/or outdoor residential fixtures,
appliances, furnishings, junk, debris from remodeling and/or repair of any
building or structure and the like.
   (B)   (1)   Bills for the rates and charges herein established shall be sent
out on a quarterly basis on the first day of January, April, July and
September.
      (2)   All bills shall be payable at the office of the City Comptroller
and shall be the responsibility, jointly and severally, of the owner(s) and/or
occupant(s) of the single-family or multiple- family residential dwelling unit,
the residential dwelling unit with a home occupation and/or the joint use
premise.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.03  BILLING; PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All bills rendered pursuant to this chapter shall be payable
within 20 days after the date they are mailed.  If any charges for the
collection and pick-up of garbage and refuse shall not be paid within 20 days
after the bill is mailed out, a delinquent payment charge of 2% of the amount
of the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith for each month that
the charge remains unpaid.  Payments when made shall be first applied to the
most recent unpaid bill, then applied to the next most recent unpaid bill, and
then continue to be applied in that order until the oldest unpaid bill is
finally paid and paid last.
      (2)   When payment of any joint use commercial or business bill falls 120
days in arrears, the city may terminate immediately the garbage and refuse
service to the commercial or business entity to whom the bill was issued and/or
proceed against the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) in the same manner as if it was
a residential dwelling unit.
   (B)   If any payments made by check for garbage and refuse collection fees
and the like are returned by the financial institution upon which they are
drawn, a $20 handling charge will be added to the account for the dwelling unit
for which the payment was made and the owner or occupant and user shall be
jointly and severally liable for payment of same.  In addition, no further
payments by check will be accepted by the city from the maker of the returned
check.
   (C)   All revenues collected from the garbage and refuse collection fee
shall be placed in the General Corporate Fund of the city, except that one-
third of the revenues upon deposit, up to but not exceeding $70,000, shall be
immediately transferred from the General Corporate Fund to a newly created
Depreciation Fund, separate and apart from all other funds of the city, as
provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-19-4, to be used to provide equipment,
supplies and material for the garbage and refuse collection provided by the
city.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.04  NOTICE REQUIRED FOR TRANSFER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any single-family or multiple-
family residential dwelling unit located within the city or any owner of a
joint use premise who has requested and is receiving the aforesaid garbage and
refuse service to give written notice to the Comptroller of the city of the
transfer of the title of the single-family or multiple-family residential
dwelling unit or joint use premise within ten days after the effective date of
the transfer and until the notice is given the former owner shall also be
jointly and severally liable, along with the new owner and occupant, for any
bill for the service sent in the former owner’s or occupant’s name.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every licensed real estate broker or agent in
any transaction wherein he or she represents either the buyer or the seller of
single-family or multiple-family residential dwelling unit or joint use premise
to give written notice on behalf of his or her principal to the Comptroller of
the city of the transfer of the title of any single-family or multiple-family
residential dwelling unit or joint use premise within the corporate limits of
the city within ten days after the effective date of the transfer.
   (C)   Notice required herein shall contain the legal description of the
property, the street address, if there is one, the former title holder, the new
title holder and the effective date of the transfer.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.05  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner of any lot, parcel of land, premises or dwelling unit
receiving the aforesaid services of garbage and refuse collection by the city,
the occupant of the premises and the user of the services shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of the costs for the services to the lot,
parcel of land or premises and all services are rendered to the premises by the
city only on the condition that the owner or occupant and user shall be jointly
and severally liable therefore to the city.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that any charge or rate for garbage and refuse
collection is not paid within 20 days after a bill for the same has been sent
out, the charge shall be deemed and is hereby declared to be delinquent.  The
delinquency shall constitute a lien upon the real estate for which the services
were supplied and the City Comptroller shall, not less than 30 days after the
date of the delinquency, file a notice of the lien in the office of the County
Recorder of Deeds and all costs of filing and releasing the lien shall be
charged against the delinquent owner, user and/or occupant.
      (2)   This notice shall consist of a sworn statement of the Comptroller
setting forth:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for the
identification thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money due for the garbage and refuse collection by
the city, including delinquency charges; and
         (c)   The date which the amount became delinquent.
   (C)   The city shall also have the power from time to time to sue the owner,
occupant and/or user of that real estate in a civil action to recover money for
any garbage and refuse collection charges, including delinquencies, plus court
costs and a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.06  VACANT DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Whenever a dwelling unit is vacant for a continuous period of 30 days
or longer or the dwelling unit becomes inhabitable because of fire or other
causes beyond the control of the owner, an abatement of the garbage and refuse
collection charges for the dwelling unit may be issued upon inspection of the
dwelling unit by the city’s Building Inspector or his or her assistant.
   (B)   Before any abatement is granted, a $5 inspection must be paid to the
City Comptroller before any inspection and a request must be made in writing
and contain the reasons for abatement; the name, address and phone number of
the applicant; agreement to allow during any granted abatement period
inspection of the dwelling unit by the city upon 24-hour notice or other time
mutually agreed to, but not exceeding 72 hours from the time of the notice, to
confirm that the dwelling unit is still vacant or inhabitable; and provide
copies of the monthly utility bills, if any, during the abatement period to the
City Building Inspector within ten days of the date of the bills; agreement to
keep the dwelling unit vacant during the abatement period; and agreement that
any violation of any one or more of the provisions for abatement will make the
abatement null and void and all charges, fees, penalties and interests for
garbage and refuse collection and non-payment of same shall immediately be
assessed and become due and payable for the dwelling unit.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the granting of any abatement request, the Building
Inspector shall immediately notify the Superintendent of Streets who shall
cause the city garbage/refuse container for the dwelling unit to be picked up
until the abatement is terminated.
      (2)   No garbage or refuse collection services will be given the dwelling
unit during the abatement period without an additional fee as provided by other
ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Any abatement request that is allowed will only be effective where the
dwelling unit has been vacant or inhabitable for an entire calendar month and,
where a portion of the calendar month is not covered by the abatement, the
garbage and refuse collection fee for that calendar month shall be paid in
full.
   (E)   Any abatement request that is allowed shall terminate upon the
violation, directly or indirectly, by the owner of any of the terms and
provisions heretofore stated for granting the abatement, the issuance of an
occupancy permit allowing occupancy of the dwelling unit to any degree, or the
passage of 12 months from the effective date of the abatement, whichever occurs
first.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.07  CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The city will provide one garbage/refuse container, with a capacity of
80 or 90 gallons, as the situation requires, for each dwelling unit in the city
that does not have the garbage and refuse collection fee abated, except as
provided in §
50.01.
   (B)   In the event the city does not have sufficient containers, then the
owner or occupant of the dwelling unit may temporarily use his or her own
container until provided a container by the city.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.08  DEFINITION; CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   A DWELLING UNIT includes, by definition, any church that is not used
solely for religious services and has not requested city garbage/refuse
service, a parish house, rectory or convent, but not a hall, gymnasium or like
structure and each shall be considered a separate and single dwelling unit.
   (B)   The County Housing Authority’s low-rent single site multiple-family
residential dwelling projects, as long as the projects are owned and operated
by the Authority for the same purpose and in the same manner as they now are,
are excluded from the terns and provisions of this chapter and any act or
ordinances amended, consolidated and/or repealed hereby and any charges that
have accrued to date for same are waived.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
§ 50.09  SPECIAL PICKUP REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Street Department of the city, upon the request of the owner or
occupant of any residence in the city, where personnel and equipment are
available and following the payment of the fees established in division (B)
below, may remove for disposal as residential refuse at a regular landfill
indoor and/or outdoor residential fixtures, appliances, furnishings, junk or
other items which do not require special handling or disposal pursuant to
federal, state or any other governmental agency laws, regulations or rules
dealing with environmental protection, it being the intent of the city that
handling and/or disposal of the items shall remain the sole duty and obligation
of the owner of same.
   (B)   The fees and charges for the removal and disposal of acceptable
residential refuse by the Street Department pursuant to division (A) above
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Mattresses or box springs, per item:  $5.
      (2)   Couches, per couch:  $5.
      (3)   Chairs, per chair:  $5.
      (4)   Other large items, including, but not limited to appliances, other
furniture, dressers, chests, per item:  $5.
      (5)   Automobiles and motorcycle tires, per tire:  $1.50.
      (6)   Truck and recreational vehicle tires, per tire:  $2.
   (C)   Removal of debris from remodeling and/or repair of any building or
structure or tree limb or yard waste removal (if same cannot be chipped in the
city’s chipper), which does not require special handling or disposal pursuant
to federal, state or other governmental agency laws, regulations or rules
dealing with environmental protection, including, but not limited to shingles,
plaster, lathes, scrap lumber, cement scrap, bricks and siding shall be charged
at the rate of $40 per truck load or any portion thereof.
   (D)   All charges as set forth in this chapter shall be paid prior to the
removal of any of the items; the fees set forth herein shall be paid to the
City Comptroller.  The City Comptroller, upon receipt thereof, shall, on the
form, to be determined by the City Comptroller, notify the Superintendent of
Streets for the payment of and request for removal of the item or items.
   (E)   The City Council shall, annually, provide one week per year whereby
all trash hauling fees shall be waived, the week to coincide with the annual
cleanup campaign in the Quad-City area as close as possible to the week
provided by the Chamber of Commerce as “Fix-up, Clean-up Week.”
(Ord. 1532, passed 7-18-2000)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any ordinance amended, consolidated and/or
repealed hereby shall upon conviction be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$750 for each offense.
      (2)   Each day that a violation is permitted to exist or in which a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any garbage, refuse, indoor and/or outdoor residential fixtures,
appliances, furnishings, junk, debris from remodeling and/or repair of any
building or structure and the like found in, on, around or about any garbage/
refuse container or dumpster, provided by the city pursuant to this chapter or
any ordinance amended, consolidated and/or repealed hereby, in violation of the
provisions of the ordinances shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
violation by the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) which can be overcome only by
clear and convincing evidence.
(Ord. 1253, passed 1-17-1995; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 1-30-1996; Am. Ord. 1343,
passed 12-5-1996)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Connection to system
   
51.02   Prohibited discharges
   
51.03   Outdoor toilet facilities, privies and the like
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  CONNECTION TO SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to connect or cause
to be connected, any drain cams or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement, septic
tank, cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging polluting
substances, to any storm water sewer or drain in the city.
(Ord. 903, passed 9-9-1975; Am. Ord. 1724, passed 6-8-2010) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.02  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to discharge or
cause to be discharged any sanitary sewerage or industrial waste into any part
of the storm sewer system in the city.
(Ord. 779, passed 8-10-1965; Am. Ord. 1724, passed 6-8-2010) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.03  OUTDOOR TOILET FACILITIES, PRIVIES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation
to have and maintain any building, whether residential, business or otherwise,
within the corporate limits of the city without having in the building complete
and modern toilet facilities and in no instance or circumstance shall it be
lawful to have or maintain separate toilet facilities outside of and separated
from any building.
   (B)   All outside and separated toilets, water closets, urinals, privies or
commodes which are not a part of or attached to any building, whether they be
connected to a sewer or not, shall be deemed a nuisance and, as such, shall be
abated within ten days from the date notice is given to the property owner or
owners by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 656, passed 1-23-1951) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSES
      
72.   WINTER EMERGENCIES
      
73.   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of Illinois Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Parades
Operation of Golf Carts and Utility-Terrain Vehicles
   
70.15   Golf cars and utility-terrain vehicles permitted on city streets
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Requirements
   
70.18   Permits
Impoundment of Motor Vehicles
   
70.30   Definitions
   
70.31   Violations authorizing impoundment
   
70.32   Seizure and impoundment
   
70.33   Refund of administrative fee
Size and Weight Restrictions
   
70.45   Definitions
   
70.46   Overweight and/or over dimension vehicles
   
70.47   Permits for overweight and/or over dimension vehicles
   
70.48   Vehicles prohibited on certain streets
   
70.49   Oversize/overweight vehicles permitted on certain streets/bridge
structures
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Weight restrictions, see also
Ch. 74, Sch. VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, in effect as of August 1, 1998, and
as may thereafter be amended, except as provided in §
70.99 below as to penalties and where applicable to matters not within the
jurisdiction of the city, is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to the
authority granted in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204. Any section of the State
Vehicle Code, adopted pursuant hereto, may be cited by placing the description,
“Ord. 1449,” before the appropriate State Vehicle Code section number.
(Ord. 1449, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 70.02  PARADES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this subchapter the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CRUISING.  The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous
or nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
      PARADE.  Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined above.
      PARADE  PERMIT.  A permit required by this subchapter.
      PARKING  LOT.  Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
         (a)   Funeral processions;
         (b)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
         (c)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   (C)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Procedure.  A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file
an application with the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on
forms provided by such officer.
      (2)   Filing period.  The application for a parade permit shall be filed
not less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.  Failure to file an application five days in
advance will not result in automatic denial of the permit, provided that the
applicant shows reasonable grounds why the application could not have been
filed five days in advance.
      (3)   Contents.  The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
         (b)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or
by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters
of the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
         (c)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will
be the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
         (d)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
         (e)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the
termination point;
         (f)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which
will constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of
the vehicles;
         (g)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
         (h)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
         (i)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
         (j)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
         (k)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
         (l)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or
for, any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall
file a communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to
apply for the permit on his or her behalf;
         (m)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
      (4)   Fee.  There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for
a parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council from time
to time.
   (D)   Standards for issuance of permit.  The Chief of Police or other
authorized city official shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the
application and from other information obtained, he or she finds that:
      (1)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (2)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the city;
      (3)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so
great a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions
of the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and
areas contiguous thereto;
      (4)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
      (6)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its
point of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
      (7)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising
any product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for
private profit;
      (8)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade. 
   (E)   Notice of rejection of permit application.  The Chief of Police or
other authorized city official shall act on the application for a parade permit
within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after filing
thereof.  If he or she disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the
applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted,
after the date on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her
action stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
   (F)   Appeal procedure when permit denied.  Any person aggrieved shall have
the right to appeal the denial of a parade permit to the City Council.  The
appeal shall be taken within 30 days after notice of denial.  The City Council
shall act on the appeal within 30 days after its receipt.
   (G)   Alternative permit.  The Chief of Police or other authorized city
official, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to
authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route
different than that named by the applicant.  An applicant desiring to accept an
alternate permit shall file a written notice of his or her acceptance.  An
alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and shall have
the effect of, a parade permit under this subchapter.
   (H)   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued.  Immediately on
the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent to the Mayor and
the Fire Chief.
   (I)   Contents  of  permit.  Each parade permit shall state the following
information:
      (1)   Starting time;
      (2)   Minimum speed;
      (3)   Maximum speed;
      (4)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
      (5)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place
to be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
      (6)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
      (7)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (J)   Duties of permittee.  A permittee hereunder shall comply with all
permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances. 
The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity shall
carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the parade.
   (K)   Public conduct during parades.
      (1)   Interference.  No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct,
impede, or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person,
vehicle, or animal participating or used in a parade.
      (2)   Driving through parades.  No driver of a vehicle except a police
car or other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
      (3)   Parking on parade route.  The Chief of Police or other authorized
city official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit
or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare
or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade.  Signs shall be
posted to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.  No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
   (L)   Revocation of permit.  The city shall have the authority to revoke a
parade permit issued hereunder on application of the standards for issuance as
herein set forth.
Penalty, see § 70.99
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 70.15  GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLES PERMITTED ON CITY STREETS.
   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicles, as defined and qualified herein,
shall be allowed on city streets under the conditions as stated in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1709, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 70.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the City of
Madison.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment 
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   UTILITY-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A self-propelled, electronically powered four-
wheeled motor vehicle or a self-propelled gasoline powered four-wheeled motor
vehicle with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters which is
capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20 miles per hour but not
more than 25 miles per hour which conforms to the federal regulations under
Title 49 C.F.R. Part 571.500.
(Ord. 1709, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 70.17  REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or utility-terrain vehicle on the
city streets must ensure compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Proof of current liability insurance.
   (B)   Must be certified with the city and have the vehicles certified with
the city by inspection by the Police Chief or designated representative.
   (C)   Must comply with the published “Rules Concerning Alternate
Transportation for the City of Madison” as periodically updated.
   (D)   Must display city decal on the rear of the vehicle.
   (E)   Must have a current, valid Illinois driver’s license.
   (F)   Golf carts must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (3)   Turn signals;
      (4)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Rearview mirror;
      (7)   Approved “Slowing Moving Vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §12-709);
      (8)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
      (9)   Trail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation.
   (G)   Utility-terrain vehicles must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (2)   Turn signals on the front and rear;
      (3)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (4)   Tires;
      (5)   Rearview mirror;
      (6)   Approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §12-709);
      (7)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
      (8)   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation;
      (9)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §11-1426.1 or the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
   (H)   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the City of
Madison.
   (I)   Must be 21 years of age.
   (J)   Must be operated only on city streets, except where prohibited.
   (K)   May not be operated on Illinois State Route 203, McCambridge Avenue
and Illinois State Route 3, except at specifically designated crossing points.
   (L)   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limit and, with respect
to utility-terrain vehicles, may not exceed 35 miles per hour.
   (M)   May only be operated between sunrise and sunset.
   (N)   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of the golf
cart of utility-terrain vehicle as described herein on the roadway while under
the influence is subject to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 through 11-502.
   (O)   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on
sidewalks or in city parts other than parking areas.
   (P)   Golf carts and utility-terrain vehicles may not be operated on streets
and highways and roads under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of
Transportation (Illinois State Route 203, McCambridge Avenue, and Illinois
State Route 3) except to cross at designated streets.
   (Q)   Designated crossing points on Illinois State Route 203/McCambridge
Avenue are at 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, Skeen and Rhodes Streets. The designated
crossing point on Illinois State Route 3 is at Bissell Street.
(Ord. 1709, passed 3-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or utility-terrain
vehicle without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk as provided
herein. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and renewed annually.
The cost of the permit is $35. Insurance coverage is to be verified to be in
effect by the Police Department when obtaining and renewing a permit.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of golf cart or
utility-terrain vehicle;
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the City of
Madison and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all
future claims resulting from the operation of their golf cart or utility-
terrain vehicle on the City of Madison Streets;
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (6)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the Chief of Police) or designee
to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is in
compliance with this subchapter and with the State of Illinois Motor Vehicle
Code.
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart or utility-terrain vehicle on city streets.
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois Statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicle to be operated on the roads of the State of
Illinois.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provisions of this subchapter
or there is evidence that permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf cart
or utility-terrain vehicle on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 1709, passed 3-17-2009)
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 70.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY.  Any day in which the offices of City Hall are open to the
public for a minimum of seven hours.
   LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE. $400.00.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including but not
limited to automobile, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
   OWNER OF RECORD.  The record title holder(s) of the motor vehicle as
registered with the Secretary of State, State of Illinois; or if not registered
in Illinois, the particular state where the motor vehicle is registered.
(Ord. 1715, passed 11-10-2009; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 70.31  VIOLATIONS AUTHORIZING IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission of
the owner of record, that is used in connection with, to assist, or to commit,
violations of any of the following statutes, as now or as hereinafter amended,
shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the city, and the owner of
record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to the city for a Level 1
administrative fee, as provided for in this subchapter, in addition to any
towing and storage fees as hereinafter provided. Such administrative fee shall
be waived by the city upon verifiable proof that the motor vehicle was stolen
at the time the motor vehicle was impounded.
   (B)   This subchapter establishes procedures for the release of properly
impounded motor vehicles and the payment of administrative fees only for the
following violations:
      (1)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to § 36-1 of the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012;
      (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
§ 11-501 of the Illinois Criminal Code or the Illinois Traffic Code;
      (3)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control
Act;
      (4)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substance
Act;
      (5)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of §§ 24-1, 24-1.5, or 24-3.1 of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 or the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012;
      (6)   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to § 6-303 of Illinois Traffic
Code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or impoundment if
the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or due to failure
to comply with emission testing;
      (7)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing,
or attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as
defined by the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act;
      (8)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of § 6-101 or the Illinois Traffic Code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year;
      (9)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued
a driver's license or permit, in violation of § 6-101 of the Illinois Traffic
Code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a driver's
license or permit due to a person's age;
      (10)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer
charges that the driver violated §§ 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois
Traffic Code;
      (11)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of Article 16 or 16A of the
Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 or the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012;
      (12)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of
the Illinois Criminal Code of 1961 or the Illinois Criminal Code of 2012; or
      (13)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in violation of § 11-503 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code:
         (a)   While the vehicle is part of a funeral procession; or
         (b)   In a manner that interferes with a funeral procession.
   (C)   The city shall also provide notice that the motor vehicle will remain
impounded pending the completion of the administrative hearing, unless the
owner or lessee of the vehicle or a lienholder posts with the Clerk of the city
or his or her designee a bond equal to the administrative fee as provided
herein and pays for all towing and service charges.
   (D)   The city shall also provide notice of any such administrative hearing
to the owner, lessee and/or lienholder of record, and said notice shall:
      (1)   Be served upon the owner, lessee and/or any lienholder of record
either by personal service or by first class mail to the interested party's
address as registered with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Be served upon the interested parties within ten days after a
vehicle has been impounded by the city; and
      (3)   Contain the date, time and location of the administrative hearing.
   (E)   The initial administrative hearing shall be scheduled and convened no
later that 45 days after the date of mailing the notice of the hearing.
   (F)   The city must also comply with the following requirements concerning
administrative hearings:
      (1)   Administrative hearings shall be conducted by a hearing officer who
is an attorney licensed to practice law in this State for a minimum of three
years;
      (2)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
vehicle impoundment;
      (3)   If the basis for the vehicle’s impoundment is sustained by the
administrative hearing officer, any administrative fee posted to secure the
release of the vehicle shall be forfeited to the city;
      (4)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law; and
      (5)   Unless the administrative hearing officer overturns the basis for
the vehicle impoundment, no vehicle shall be released to the owner, lessee, or
lienholder of record until all administrative fees and towing and storage
charges are paid in full.
   (G)   Vehicles not retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility
within 35 days after the administrative hearing officer issues a written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of Illinois law.
   (H)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any fine, penalty,
or administrative fee imposed under this section which remains unpaid in whole
or in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review
under the Administrative Review Law may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1715, passed 11-10-2009; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 70.32  SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this subchapter, the police
officer may provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility approved
by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The police officer shall notify any person identifying himself or
herself as the owner of the motor vehicle or any person who is found to be in
control of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is
such a person, of the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle owner's
right to request an administrative hearing to be conducted under this section.
   (C)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within 30 days after the
expiration of the time during which the owner of record may seek judicial
review of the city's action under this subchapter, or the time at which a final
judgment is rendered in favor of the city, or the time a final administrative
decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in default, may be
disposed of as an abandoned or unclaimed motor vehicle as provided by law,
provided, however, that where proceedings have been instituted under state or
federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the subject motor vehicle may not be
disposed of by the city except as consistent with those proceedings.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in
possession of the motor vehicle to obtain documentation confirming compliance
with all the foregoing requirements of this subchapter and to retain
photocopies of that documentation in their files for a period of not less than
six months following release of the motor vehicle. The foregoing information
shall be made available to the authorities of the city for inspection and
copying, upon their request, made to the towing or storage company. The towing
or storage company is prohibited from releasing any motor vehicle they may tow
within the city until and unless they obtain the documentation as aforesaid.
      (2)   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a
reasonable fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such
motor vehicle prior to the release of the motor vehicle. The fee shall be to
cover the cost of removing said motor vehicle, and, in addition thereto, the
cost of storage of said motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that
said motor vehicle shall remained stored.
      (3)   The fees in this section shall be in addition to any administrative
fee, fine, penalty or charge, levied or assessed against the owner or operator
of said motor vehicle by reason of violation of any ordinance or statute, and
any arrest which may have resulted from such violation.
(Ord. 1715, passed 11-10-2009; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 10-4-2016)
§ 70.33  REFUND OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   In the event a judgment of not guilty is entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction on all underlying charges that could have resulted in the
impoundment of a motor vehicle, then within 30 days of presentation of a
certified copy of said judgment to the City Police Department, any
administrative fee or posted bond obtained by the city under this subchapter
shall be refunded to the paying party.
(Ord. 1715, passed 11-10-2009; Am. Ord. 1799, passed 10-4-2016)
SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
§ 70.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AXLE LOAD. The total load transmitted to the road by all wheels whose
centers may be included between two parallel transverse vertical plans 40
inches apart extending across the full width of the vehicle.
   CITY. The City of Madison.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.  Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons
or property in the furtherance of any commercial of industrial enterprise, for-
hire or not-for-hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
   CONSTRUCTION VEHICLE. Any vehicle over 10,000 pounds actual weight,
registered gross weight or GVWR that is required to comply with ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §§ 12-712 and 12-713 on identification required to be displayed.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING (GVWR). The value specified by the manufacturer
or manufacturers as maximum loaded weight of a single vehicle. The GVWR of a
combination of vehicles (commonly referred to as the GROSS COMBINATION WEIGHT
RATING or GCWR) is the GVWR of the power unit plus the GVWR of the towed unit
or units. In the absence of a value specified by the manufacturer, GCWR is
determined by adding the GVWR of the power unit and the total weight of the
towed unit and any load on the unit.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle whether operated singly or in
combination without load plus the weight of the load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural, or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs. For this subchapter, MOTOR VEHICLES  are divided into
two divisions:
      (1)   FIRST DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for the
carrying of not more than ten persons.
      (2)   SECOND DIVISION. Those motor vehicles which are designed for
carrying more than ten persons, those motor vehicles designed or used for
living quarters, those motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or
carrying freight, cargo or implements of husbandry, and those vehicles of the
First Division remodeled for use and used as motor vehicles of the Second
Division.
   PERMIT ROUTE. The route authorized by the issuing authority with proper
jurisdiction over the roadway(s) for which permission has been granted to move
a vehicle or combination of vehicles that is in itself indivisible or carrying
an indivisible load that exceeds normal dimensions or weight or a combination
thereof.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SPECIAL HAULING VEHICLE. A vehicle or combination of vehicles transporting
asphalt or concrete in the plastic state or a vehicle or combination of
vehicles that is subject to weight limitations in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 4, § 15-111
(a) and (b) for which the owner of the vehicle or combination of vehicles has
elected to pay, in addition to the registration fees stated in ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 4, § 3-815(b) or (c) or § 3-818, $100 to the Secretary of State for each
registration year.
   TANDEM AXLES. Any two or more single axles whose centers are more than 40
inches and not more than 96 inches apart, measured to the nearest inch between
extreme axles in the series, except as provided in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-
111 for special hauling vehicles.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(Ord. 1739, passed 11-22-2011)
§ 70.46  OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVER DIMENSION VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to drive, to
park, or move on, upon or across or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit
to be pared, driven, or moved upon or across, any street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the city, any vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeding the
size and weight limitation state in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-102(width), 15-
103 (height), 15-107 (length), and 15-111 (weight).
   (B)   Size and weight limitations while operating on city streets shall not
apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow or ice removal operations owned
or operated by or for any governmental body ro to implements of husbandry
temporarily operated or towed in a combination in the furtherance of a farm or
agricultural endeavor and to any vehicle or combination of vehicles operating
under the terms of a valid oversize and/or dimension permit issued by the city
under the authority of § 70.47.
   (C)   Where lower size and weight limits or other restrictions are imposed
by ordinance under authority of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-111, 15-316 and 15-
317, and signs indicating such limitations or restrictions are posted, it shall
be unlawful to operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles in excess of such
size or weight limitations or in violation of such restrictions.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this section, the owner and/or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed guilty of such violation and either or both the owner and driver of such
vehicle may be prosecuted for such violation.
(Ord. 1739, passed 11-22-2011)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47  PERMITS FOR OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVER DIMENSION VEHICLES.
   (A)   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles with a non-divisible load on roadways and bridges
within the jurisdiction of the city which exceeds the dimensions and weights
permitted for the particular roadways to be traveled whether they be non-
designated or designated roadways.
   (B)   The city with respect to any street or highway under its jurisdiction
may upon application to the City of Madison Police Department on forms provided
by the Police Department and good cause being shown therefor issue a special
permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles or a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
in §
70.46. The applicant shall furnish the following information in the special
permit application:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or lessee of vehicle.
      (2)   Applicant’s name.
      (3)   Type of permit request whether it be for a single trip, round trip,
or multiple routing.
      (4)   The description and registration (or the Illinois Department of
Transportation’s (IDOT) registration number or classification) of the power
unit.
      (5)   Description of the object or vehicle to be moved.
      (6)   The number of axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (7)   The maximum axle weights of all single, tandem or series axles.
      (8)   Maximum gross weight of the vehicle.
      (9)   The maximum width, length and height of the vehicle and load.
      (10)   Requested routing over city streets to and from a specific
location.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   A ONE-WAY OR SINGLE TRIP MOVEMENT means one move from the point of
origin to the point of destination. Any additional stops between the point of
origin and the point of destination are expressly prohibited. Single trip
permits are effective for seven consecutive days from the date of issuance
unless otherwise directed by the Police Department.
      (2)   ROUND TRIP MOVEMENT means two trips over the same route in opposite
directions. Round trip permits are effective for 14 consecutive days from the
date of issuance.
      (3)   MULTIPLE MOVES are those in such close proximity to each other in
distance or in time that the Police Department would consider incorporating two
or more permit moves within one permit application. Multiple move permits when
granted by the Police Department shall be for a period of time not to exceed 90
days from the date of issuance.
   (D)   The owner or his or her agent shall submit an application fee based on
the below chart for a single routing which will be valid for seven calendar
days, round trip routing valid for 14 calendar days and multiple routings valid
for a base period of three months. Permits may be issued for a maximum of four
consecutive permit periods  (365 days) with the permit fee calculated in the
appropriate multiples of the base three-month multiple trip permit. Permits are
valid only for the date periods specified on the permit and for the specific
vehicle, load and routing as established by the Chief of Police or designee. No
substitution of vehicle, load or routing is permitted without expressed written
permission by the Chief or Police or his or her designee and the permit must be
carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies.
 
PERMIT SIZE—WEIGHT (WITH LOADFEE
                               Single trip Round Trip Multiple
Up to 100,000 pounds           50          75         150
100,001—120,000              75          100        200
120,001—150,000              100         125        —
Over 150,000                   100*        125*       —
*Plus necessary and appropriate administrative, engineering and road damage
fees
 
 
PERMIT SIZE—WIDTH (WITH LOADFEE
                              Single trip Round trip Multiple
Up to 12'                     25          40         75
12'1"—13'6"                 50          75         100
Over 13'6" wide               50*         75*        —
* Plus necessary and appropriate administrative, engineering and road damage
fees
 
 
PERMIT SIZE—HEIGHT (WITH LOADFEE
                               Single trip Round trip Multiple
13'6"—14'6"                  25          40         75
Over 14'6" wide                50*         75*        —
* Plus necessary and appropriate administrative, engineering and road damage
fees
 
 
PERMIT SIZE—LENGTH (WITH LOADFEE
                               Single trip Round trip Multiple
Up to 100'                     25          40         75
Over 100'                      50*         75*        —
* Plus necessary and appropriate administrative, engineering and road damage
fees
 
NOTE:   If a vehicle requires a permit due to multiple weight and/or dimension
issues, the total fee will be based on the largest individual weight or
dimension factor only.
   (E)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee is authorized to approve
the application for application for approved routes. Upon approval and payment
of all required fees, the Police Department shall issue a permit allowing
passage of the oversize and/or overweight vehicles over city streets. The
permit shall be specific and contain:
      (1)   Permit number.
      (2)   The dates the permit is valid.
      (3)   Whether the permit is for single, round or multiple trip routing.
      (4)   The description of object or vehicle to be moved.
      (5)   Authorized gross weight, axle weights, width, length and height.
      (6)   The authorized routing over village streets including the origin
and termination point within the village.
      (7)   The fee paid.
      (8)   The date and signature of the Chief of Police or his or her
designee.
      (9)   In addition, the permit will specify general conditions that the
permittee must comply with that are consistent and reasonable for the
protection of the general public and city streets. A copy of all permits issued
will be provided to the City Administrator for informational purposes.
   (F)   It is the duty of the permittee to read and familiarize himself or
herself with the permit provisions upon receipt. Undertaking of the permit move
is deemed prima facie evidence of acceptance of the permit and that:
      (1)   The permittee is in compliance with all operation requirements;
      (2)   All dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit will
not be exceeded;
      (3)   All operation, registration and license requirements have been
complied with;
      (4)   All financial responsibilities, obligations and other legal
requirements have been met; and
      (5)   The permittee assumes all responsibility for injury or damage to
persons or to public or private property, including his or her own, or to the
object being transported, caused directly or indirectly by the transportation
or movement of vehicles and objects authorized under the permit. He or she
agrees to hold the village harmless from all suits, claims, damages, or
proceedings of any kind and to indemnify the city for any claim it may be
required to pay arising from the movement.
      (6)   The permit shall be carried in the vehicle to which the permit
applies at all times while operating on streets within the city and shall be
exhibited upon demand to any law enforcement officer, police officer or
authorized official of the city.
   (G)   The permit shall be carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies
at all times while operating on streets within the city and shall be exhibited
upon demand to any law enforcement officer, police officer or authorized
official of the city.
   (H)   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of a
city permit, whether it be by size, weight or general provisions, either or
both the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed guilty and either or
both the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such
violation.
(Ord. 1739, passed 11-22-2011)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48  VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   As provided under the authority of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-111 and
15-316, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any street where the
operation of that vehicle is prohibited by ordinance and where signs of such
prohibition are posted. Vehicles operating under the authority of ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, §§ 15-111 and 15-316 while utilizing city streets under “reasonable
access” rules will be considered in violation of this section if they are not
utilizing the most direct route to points of loading and unloading.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any “construction vehicle” as defined
herein on any street in the city when signs are posted on that street
prohibiting “construction vehicles.” Where the Chief of Police, with the
approval of the City Council, establishes an established truck route,
construction vehicles will utilize only those established routes to service
those areas of the city under construction.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park a commercial motor vehicle on a
residential street while said truck is running between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. the following day.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Public Works is authorized and directed to post
or cause to be posted, streets designated as Class II truck routes, streets
having weight restrictions and/or bridges under the authority of the City of
Madison having weight restrictions as governed by §
70.49.
(Ord. 1739, passed 11-22-2011)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49  OVERSIZE/OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES PERMITTED ON CERTAIN STREETS/BRIDGE
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   As provided under the authority of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(f),
the city has designated the following streets or portions of streets and/or
highways as Class II designated streets. Vehicles utilizing those as such, can
be of a weight, length and width consistent with ILC Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 15-102
(width), 15-107 (length) and 15-111 (weight).
CLASS II DESIGNATED STREETS
CLASS II DESIGNATED STREETS
Access Boulevard            From Bissell Street to E Street
Alton Avenue                From 3rd Street to Wayne Lanter Avenue
Bissell Street              From Klein Street to Wharf Road
Caine Drive                 From Farrish Street to Huntco Drive
Eagle Park Road             From Illinois Route 203 to Brooklyn Village limit
Fairway Park Drive          From Eagle Park Road to south end
Farrish Street              From Harris Street to Caine Drive
 
CLASS II DESIGNATED STREETS
CLASS II DESIGNATED STREETS
Fox Industrial Drive        From Market Street to College Street (Venice city
                            limits)
Harris Street               From Illinois Route 203 to Farrish Street
Huntco Drive                Entirety—north to south end
Illinois Route 3
Illinois Route 111
Illinois Route 203          Sections of roadway referred to as Edwardsville
                            Road and McCambridge Avenue
Interstate 55/70            Westbound
Interstate 270
Madison Road                From Bend Road to south end
Maverick Drive              From Illinois Route 203 to east end
Mueller Lane                From Madison Road to east end
Ohio Avenue                 From Illinois Route 203 to Madison Road
Old Nickel Plate Road       From Illinois Route 203 Frontage Road to east end
Third Street                From Alton Avenue to Illinois Route 203
Wayne Lanter Avenue         From McCambridge Viaduct to Madison Avenue
West Chain of Rocks Road    From east base of Canal Bridge to Old Chain of
                            Rocks Bridge
Wharf Road                  From Bissell Street to E Street
Rivers Edge Complex
C Street                    From 3rd Street to 8th Street
D Street                    From 3rd Street to 8th Street
E Street                    From Access Boulevard to west end
3rd Street                  From C Street to E Street
4th Street                  From C Street to E Street
5th Street                  From C Street to E Street
 
 
CLASS II DESIGNATED STREETS
6th Street                  From C Street to E Street
7th Street                  From C Street to E Street
8th Street                  From C Street to D Street and from D Street to
                            south end
 
   (B)   That from and after the taking effect of this section, no vehicle of
more than five tons/10,000 pounds gross weight, including the weight of the
vehicle and its contents, shall be operated upon or over Alton Avenue (from 3rd
Street to Elizabeth Street and Illinois Route 203 Frontage Road to Walnut
Street), Beckwith Avenue, Belt Street, Bend Road, Booker Street, Carver Street,
Central Street, Collinsville Avenue, Edwardsville Road (from Alton Avenue to
McCambridge Avenue), Eighth Street, Elizabeth Street, Ewing Avenue, Farrish
Street, Fifth Street, Fourth Street, Fourteenth Street, Franklin Street,
Gillespie Street, Golf Drive, Grand Avenue, Greenwood Street, Harrison Street,
Highland Avenue, Hildebrand Street, Hill Street, Industrial Drive, Iowa Street,
Jackson Street, James Street, Jefferson Street, Keelin Lane, Kennedy Drive,
Kohl Street, Layton Road, Lee Street, Madison Avenue, Market Street, Meridian
Avenue, Milan Avenue, McCambridge Avenue (from 14th Street to Edwardsville
Road), McCasland Avenue, McNair Avenue, Murphy Lane, Plum Street, Race Street,
Raceway Boulevard, Reynolds Street, Riti Lane, Rhodes Street, Roman Lane, Roman
Road, Second Street, Seventh Street, Sixth Street, Skeen Street, State Street,
Staunton Street, Tenth Street, Third Street (from Alton Avenue to State
Street), Thirteenth Street, Troy Street, Twelfth Street, Walnut Street,
Washington Avenue, Waterworks Road, Webster Street, West Madison Street, West
Second Street, West Third Street, and West Washington Street.
   (C)   For the purposes of this subchapter, weight and load restrictions and
violations pertain to roadways and structures listed above shall only pertain
to those said roadways and structures within the City of Madison corporate
limits. Operators of vehicles are cautioned to check with other local
municipalities or governing bodies as to their size and weight restrictions and
truck routes.
   (D)   That vehicles crossing IDOT Structure No. 060-0068 (bridge crossing
the Chain of Rocks Canal on Chain of Rocks Road) shall be limited in weight, as
follows:
      (1)   Single unit vehicles not to exceed 19 tons;
      (2)   Vehicles with three or more axles not to exceed 22 tons total.
(Ord. 1739, passed 11-22-2011; Am. Ord. 1776, passed 5-5-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The language contained in each and every penalty section in the State
Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, shall be and hereby is amended by substituting the
following language in its place:  “Any person, firm, corporation or entity
violating any provision of this section shall be fined not less than $50, nor
more than $750 for each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.”
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
70.15 through
70.18 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of
$75. Any second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the
permit for a period of not less than three months nor more than five years. To
the extent that any violation of §§
70.15 through
70.18 also constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the State of
Illinois, then the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
   (C)   Any person violating the parking restrictions in
Chapter 75, Schedule II, for Seventh Street shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750 for each and every violation thereof.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who or which violates, disobeys,
neglects, fails to comply with or resists enforcement of the provisions of §§
70.45 through
70.49 will be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 dollars for each
offense. Any person, firm or corporation who or which violates, disobeys,
neglects, fails to comply with or resists enforcement of the provisions of that
subchapter pertaining to overweight violations will be fined $200. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each calendar day a violation occurs.
      (2)   In addition to seeking a fine, as hereinabove provided, the City of
Madison may institute any proper action in the name of the City of Madison to
enjoin the violation of any provision of §§
70.45 through
70.49.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who or which violates, disobeys,
neglects, fails to comply with or resists enforcement of the provisions of §
70.49(D) will be fined not less than $50 nor more than $75 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each occasion a violation of the
provision occurs.
(Ord. 1449, passed 8-5-1998; Am. Ord. 1709, passed 3-14-2009; Am. Ord. 1721,
passed 3-30-2010; Am. Ord. 1739, passed 11-22-2011; Am. Ord. 1776, passed 5-5-
2015)
CHAPTER 71:  MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   License required
   
71.03   Application; issuance
   
71.04   Plate or windshield sticker
   
71.05   License year
   
71.06   Fees; time of payment
   
71.07   Replacement or transfer of plate or windshield sticker
   
71.08   Dealer’s license
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Illinois.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle which is self-propelled, except for vehicles
moved solely by human power and motorized wheelchairs, and is hereinafter
called VEHICLE.
   PASSENGER CAR.  Any motor vehicle which is designed and used as designed for
the carrying of not more than ten persons.
   STATE.  The State of Illinois.
   VEHICLE.  Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a public street or alley, except devices moved
by human power and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. 
Further, for the purposes of this chapter, a DEVICE shall be considered to be a
vehicle until the time it either comes within the definition of a junk vehicle,
as defined by other city ordinances or state law, or a junking certificate is
issued for it.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 71.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person who resides within the city and who owns or operates a
vehicle or any business entity, firm or corporation maintaining a place of
business in the city which owns or operates a vehicle shall pay each year to
the City Clerk a tax or license fee as is hereinafter provided for the use of
each vehicle used or parked on any public street or alley in the city.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a person residing in the city or
a business entity, firm or corporation having a place of business in the city
is deemed to be a user of the public streets or alleyways of the city, if the
person or business entity, firm or corporation:
      (1)   Has title to the vehicle;
      (2)   Has a rental lease to the vehicle;
      (3)   Has possession of the vehicle for 30 days or longer; or
      (4)   Has obtained a state registration from the state for the vehicle.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03  APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Every person who resides within the city who owns or operates a
vehicle or any business entity, firm or corporation maintaining a place of
business in the city, which owns or operates a vehicle, shall file an
application for a license for the vehicle with the City Clerk, setting forth
the name and address of the applicant; the name and address of the owner, if
different from the applicant, of the vehicle; and a description of the vehicle
for which the license is desired.
   (B)   Upon payment of the fee hereinafter provided, the City Clerk shall
issue or cause to be issued a license, which shall be attested by him or her,
authorizing the use of the vehicle within the city until expiration of the
license.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04  PLATE OR WINDSHIELD STICKER.
   Each applicant upon payment of the required fee shall be given a license
plate or windshield sticker, of a design and material as may be approved by the
City Council, and the license plate or windshield sticker issued to the
applicant shall be prominently displayed on the lower right-hand corner of the
windshield of the vehicle for which it is issued in a manner as to be clearly
visible and easily read from the outside of the vehicle.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 71.05  LICENSE YEAR.
   The license year shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31 of every
year.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 71.06  FEES; TIME OF PAYMENT.
   The fees for vehicle licenses shall be due and payable annually in advance
on January 1 of each year, on the date of purchase of the vehicle and/or on the
date of becoming a resident or opening a place of business in the city,
whichever comes first, in the following manner and amounts.
   (A)   For any vehicle under a gross weight of 10,000 pounds, the annual
license fee shall be as follows:
      (1)   Five dollars, except as hereinafter provided for residents over 62
years of age, if the license is applied for and issued:
         (a)   Before February 1 of each license year;
         (b)   Within 30 days of the date of purchase of the vehicle; or
         (c)   Within 30 days of the date of becoming a resident of or opening
a place of business in the city, whichever is later.
      (2)   Ten dollars, except as hereinafter provided for residents over 62
years of age, if the license, is applied for and issued:
         (a)   After February 1 of each license year;
         (b)   After 30 days of the date of purchase of the vehicle; or
         (c)   Thirty or more days after the date of becoming a resident of or
opening a place of business in the city, whichever is later.
   (B)   For any person having attained the age of 62 before January 1 of any
particular license year and who is licensing his or her, as the case may be,
passenger car and who gives satisfactory proof of his or her age, ownership of
the passenger car by proper state registration and residence in the city at the
time the application for the license is made, the annual license fee and
limitations shall be as follows:
      (1)   Free, if the license is applied for and issued:
         (a)   Before February 1 of each license year;
         (b)   Within 30 days of the date of purchase of the vehicle; or
         (c)   Within 30 days of the date of becoming a resident of the city,
whichever is later.
      (2)   Five dollars, if the license is applied for and issued:
         (a)   After February 1 of each license year;
         (b)   After 30 days of the date of purchase of the vehicle; or
         (c)   Thirty or more days after the date of becoming a resident of the
city, whichever is later.
      (3)   Only one license (free and/or $5) is permitted to any one person in
any particular license year regardless of how many passenger cars that person
may own.
   (C)   For any vehicle over a gross weight of 10,000 pounds the annual
license fee shall be $25.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 71.07  REPLACEMENT OR TRANSFER OF PLATE OR WINDSHIELD STICKER.
   The City Clerk shall issue a replacement license plate or windshield sticker
or transfer same to a subsequently owned vehicle without fee if application for
replacement or transfer is made within 30 days of the following events:
   (A)   The windshield of the vehicle to which the windshield sticker was
affixed is broken, in which instance proof of replacement of the windshield and
proof of purchase of the windshield sticker being replaced must be furnished by
the owner of the vehicle;
   (B)   The license plate affixed to the vehicle has been lost, stolen or so
damaged as to make it unusable, in which event an appropriate affidavit with
particulars detailing the loss, theft or damage with proof of purchase of the
license plate being replaced must be furnished by the owner of the vehicle; or
   (C)   The vehicle for which the original license was purchased has been
replaced by the owner, in which instance proof of sale, trade or other disposal
of the vehicle, proof of purchase of the license plate or windshield sticker
affixed to the replaced vehicle, and proof of purchase of the subsequent
vehicle to which the license is being transferred and/or windshield sticker is
being provided for must be furnished by the owner of the vehicles.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 71.08  DEALERS’ LICENSE.
   The license plates issued to dealers for vehicles held for sale and used
only for demonstration may be transferred to any other vehicle so held and used
by the same dealer; provided that the dealers shall procure one license for
each vehicle so held by him or her at any one time during the year.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or business entity, firm or corporation, whether by principal
agent, officer, employee or otherwise, violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $750 for each offense.  A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1156, passed 9-5-1989; Am. Ord. 1450, passed 8-5-1998)
CHAPTER 72:  WINTER EMERGENCIES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Routes designated
   
72.03   Parking prohibition; termination
   
72.04   Condition of vehicles on routes
   
72.05   Stalled vehicle
   
72.06   Removal of parked or abandoned vehicle
   
72.07   Owner’s responsibility
   
72.08   Signs marking routes
   
72.09   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
72.10   Interference with snow plows
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Madison County, Illinois.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.  Those streets or portions thereof listed in §
72.02.
   SNOW TIRES.  Any tires mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles which are
especially designed to give effective traction on snow, mud or ice covered
streets by means of extra heavy duty treads with specifically high-traction
patterns except that no tire so defined shall be construed to be a snow tire
which is damaged or worn to the extent that its performance would be
substantially impaired.
   STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained within the corporate limits of the city when any part thereof is
open to use to the public for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.  The Superintendent of Streets of the city or his
or her authorized designate.
   TIRE CHAINS.  Any metal chains mounted on drive wheel tires of motor
vehicles across the tread of each tire laterally in at least three different
places.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 72.02  ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The streets designated as snow emergency routes in the city are as follows:
   (A)   3rd Street;
   (B)   6th Street;
   (C)   Kennedy Drive;
   (D)   Washington Avenue, north from Kennedy Drive to 14th Street;
   (E)   14th Street, west from Washington to Madison Avenue;
   (F)   McCambridge Avenue, north from Edwardsville Road to Kennedy Drive;
   (G)   Alton Avenue;
   (H)   Madison Avenue;
   (I)   State Street;
   (J)   Harris Street;
   (K)   Farrish Street, north from Harris Street to Rhodes Street;
   (L)   West 2nd Street;
   (M)   West 3rd Street; and
   (N)   Bissell Street, west from Klein Street to State Route 3.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 72.03  PARKING PROHIBITION; TERMINATION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Superintendent of Streets finds, on the basis of
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain or on the basis of a forecast by the
United States Weather Bureau or other weather service of snow, sleet or
freezing rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor
vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on city streets be prohibited or
restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Superintendent of Streets
shall put into effect by a declaration, as provided in division (D) below, a
parking prohibition on parts of or on all snow emergency routes as necessary.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A)(1) above, a parking
prohibition shall automatically go into effect on any part of any snow
emergency route on which there has been an accumulation of snow and/or ice of
three inches or more for one hour as measured by the United States Weather
Bureau or as directed by the Superintendent of Streets.
      (3)   Once in effect, a parking prohibition under this section shall
remain in effect until terminated by announcement of the Superintendent of
Streets in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Superintendent of Streets shall find that some or all of
the conditions which give rise to a parking prohibition in effect pursuant to
this chapter no longer exist, he or she may declare the prohibition terminated,
in whole or in part, as provided in division (D) below, effective immediately
upon announcement.
   (C)   Any provision of this chapter which becomes effective by declaration
of the Superintendent of Streets or upon the occurrence of certain weather
conditions shall, while in effect, take precedence over other conflicting
provisions of law normally in effect, except that it shall not take precedence
over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of
authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic directions of a police
officer.
   (D)   (1)   The Superintendent of Streets shall cause each declaration
regarding a parking prohibition on parts of or on all snow emergency routes
made by him or her pursuant to this chapter to be publicly announced by means
of broadcasts or otherwise from radio or television station(s) with a normal
operating range covering the city and he or she may, in addition, cause the
declaration to be announced in newspapers of general circulation within the
city when feasible.  Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the
Superintendent of Streets, including the time it became or will become
effective, and shall specify the streets affected.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Streets shall make or cause to be made a
record of each time and date when any declaration is announced to the public in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 72.04  CONDITION OF VEHICLES ON ROUTES.
   (A)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice shall allow the vehicle to become
stalled wholly or partly because the drive wheels thereof are not equipped with
effective tire chains or snow tires.
   (B)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a part of a snow emergency
route on which there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect shall allow the vehicle to become stalled because
the motor fuel supply is exhausted or the battery has become inoperative.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990) 
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05  STALLED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this chapter, on any part of a snow emergency route on which there
is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a parking prohibition
in effect, the person operating the vehicle shall take immediate action to have
the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of the snow emergency route onto
the first cross street which is not a snow emergency route.  No person shall
abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway of a snow emergency route,
regardless of whether he or she indicated by raising the hood or otherwise,
that the vehicle is stalled.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990) 
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06  REMOVAL OF PARKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any vehicle shall be found parked or abandoned on a snow emergency
route in violation of this chapter, the vehicle may be removed and conveyed by
means of towing and impounding the same at the owner’s and/or operator’s
expense or by towing or otherwise removing the vehicle to the nearest available
parking space on the first cross street which is not a snow emergency route.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 72.07  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The presence of any vehicle found parked or abandoned in violation of this
chapter on any snow emergency routes shall be prima facie evidence that the
person, firm or corporation in whose name the vehicle is registered, committed
or authorized the violation.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 72.08  SIGNS MARKING ROUTES.
   On each street designated by this chapter as a snow emergency route, the
Superintendent of Streets shall post special signs at intervals indicating that
this is an emergency snow route.  These signs shall be distinctive and uniform
in appearance and shall be plainly readable to persons traveling on that
street.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
§ 72.09  DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, company, syndicate or association
and/or any owner, servant, agent or employee thereof shall deposit or cause to
be deposited any snow and/or ice on or against a fire hydrant or on any
sidewalk, street or loading and unloading areas of a public transportation
system, except that snow and ice may be scraped to the sides of a street
incident to the cleaning of the street or scraped to or on curbs incident to
the cleaning of sidewalks and driveways.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990) 
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10  INTERFERENCE WITH SNOW PLOWS.
   No vehicle shall impede or interfere in any way with a snowplow or other
snow removal vehicle while the snowplow or other snow removal vehicle is in
operation on city streets.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990) 
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, company, syndicate or
association and/or any owner, servant, agent or employee thereof who violates
any terms or provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, pay a minimum
sum of $25 and a maximum sum of $750 for each offense.
(Ord. 1160, passed 2-20-1990)
CHAPTER 73:  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
73.01   Purpose
   
73.02   Administrative composition
   
73.03   Procedure
   
73.04   Hearings
   
73.05   Additional notices
   
73.06   Final determination of liability
   
73.07   Review
   
73.08   Non-resident procedures
   
73.09   Schedule of fines and penalties
   
73.10   Certified report; contesting report
   
73.11   Immobilization; towing and impounding
   
73.12   Judicial review
   
73.13   Debt to city
   
73.14   Judgment
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Illinois Vehicle Code, see §
70.01
§ 73.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient
enforcement of city vehicular standing, parking and condition of vehicle
(“compliance”) violation(s) and other city regulation violation(s), as may be
allowed by law, through an administrative adjudication of violation(s) of city
ordinances regulating the standing, parking and compliance of vehicles within
the geographic boundaries of the city and a schedule of uniform fines and
penalties and authority and procedures for collection of unpaid fines and
penalties.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPLIANCE VIOLATION.  A violation of a municipal regulation governing
the condition or use of equipment on a vehicle or governing the display of a
municipal wheel tax license.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.02  ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing,
parking and compliance violation(s) shall provide for a Traffic Compliance
Administrator, a Hearing Officer, Computer Operator/System Coordinator and
hearing room personnel (Deputy), with the power, authority and limitations as
are hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall be empowered and is
hereby authorized and directed to:
         (a)   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking and compliance violation(s);
         (b)   Adopt, distribute and process standing, parking and compliance
violation notices and other notices as may be required under this chapter or as
may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this chapter;
         (c)   Collect moneys paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a
final determination of vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation(s)
liability;
         (d)   Conduct hearings, as a Hearing Officer with the same power and
authority as is hereinafter set forth, during the absence of the appointed
Hearing Officer;
         (e)   Certify copies of final determination(s) of standing, parking
and compliance violation(s) liability and factual report(s) verifying that the
final determination of standing, parking and compliance violation(s) liability
was issued in accordance with this chapter and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3;
         (f)   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation
of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, hereinafter set forth, and those of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5;
         (g)   Review final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking,
and compliance violation(s) liability, validity of notices of impending
impoundment or validity of notice of impending drivers license suspension, in
an administrative review capacity in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, hereinafter set forth;
         (h)   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate
and maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created;
         (i)   Collect unpaid fines and penalties by filing complaints in the
Circuit Court or selecting or appointing an individual or agency to act on
behalf of the city in filing complaints seeking judgments for unpaid fines or
penalties and pursuit of all post-judgment remedies available by current law;
and
         (j)   To select or appoint an individual, agency or firm to tow and
impound vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, hereinafter
set forth.
      (2)   A Hearing Officer shall be empowered and is hereby authorized and
directed to:
         (a)   Preside over the administrative hearings, established herein, as
the adjudicator;
         (b)   Administer oaths;
         (c)   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and
production of relevant papers or documentation;
         (d)   Assess fines and penalties for the violation of vehicular
standing, parking or compliance violation(s) as are established in §
73.09;
         (e)   Make final determination of:
            1.   Vehicular standing, parking and compliance regulation
violation(s) liability;
            2.   Validity of notice of impending impoundment; and
            3.   Validity of notice of impending driver’s license suspension in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, hereinafter set forth.
         (f)   Provide for the accurate recordation of the administrative
adjudication hearing(s).
      (3)   The System Coordinator/Computer Operator is hereby authorized and
directed to operate and maintain the computer program(s) for the administrative
adjudication system hereby created, on a day to day basis, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Input of violation notice information;
         (b)   Hearing date(s) and notice dates;
         (c)   Fine and penalty assessments and payment(s);
         (d)   Issue payment receipts;
         (e)   Issue succeeding notices of hearing dates, final determination
of liability, notice of impending impoundment and notice of impending drivers
license suspension as directed by the Traffic Compliance Administrator in
accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth; and
         (f)   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
      (4)   Hearing room personnel are hereby authorized and directed to:
         (a)   Maintain hearing room decorum;
         (b)   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies
of the Circuit Court;
         (c)   Perform other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the Hearing Officer or Traffic Compliance Administrator; and
         (d)   This position is limited to off-duty, full-time, part-time or
auxiliary police officers.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of the City Council,
persons to hold the positions above set forth on an annual basis, from May 1 to
April 30 next following.  One person may hold and fulfill the requirements of
one or more of the above stated positions.
   (C)   Compensation to be paid for each of the above stated positions shall
be determined by separate ordinance.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.03  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing,
parking and compliance violation(s) shall be in accordance with the following
procedures and final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking and
compliance violation(s) liability, validity of notice of impending impoundment,
validity of notice of impending driver’s license suspension and impoundment of
vehicle and collections shall be made only in accordance with the provisions
set forth below:
      (1)   Violation notice.  A vehicular standing, parking and compliance
violation notice shall be issued by the person(s) authorized herein and shall
contain information and shall be served, certified and have evidentiary
admissibility as is hereinafter set forth.
      (2)   Authorization.  All full-time, part-time, auxiliary police and
community service officers, as well as, other specifically appointed
individuals shall have the authority to issue violation notices.
      (3)   Detection of violations.  Any individual authorized hereby to issue
violation notices and who detects a violation of any section of any applicable
city ordinance shall issue a notice of violation thereof and shall make service
thereof as is hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The vehicular standing, parking and compliance regulation violation
notice shall contain, but shall not be limited to the following information:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance);
      (2)   The particular vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation
violated;
      (3)   Vehicle make and state registration number;
      (4)   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment;
      (5)   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice;
      (6)   A section entitled “request for hearing,” which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner or lessee may appear at the initial
administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the
date and at the time and place as specified in the violation notice by:
         (a)   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified, “request for hearing;”
         (b)   Placing his or her name and current address in the place
provided;
         (c)   Signing his or her name in the appropriate indicated place; and
         (d)   Filing the violation notice, with the “request for hearing”
portion fully completed, with the Traffic Compliance Administrator postmarked
within ten days of the violation notice issuance.  The request shall be deemed
filed upon receipt by the Traffic Compliance Administrator.
      (7)   The date, time and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits;
      (8)   That payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty
shall operate as a final disposition of the violation, except as to the
provisions of §
73.09(B)(1);
      (9)   A section entitled, “non-resident request for hearing - non-
appearance,” which clearly sets forth that a non-resident registered owner or
lessee may appear at the initial administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the violation notice without personally appearing by:
         (a)   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified, “non-resident request for hearing - non-appearance;”
         (b)   Placing his or her name and current address in the place
provided;
         (c)   Signing his or her name in the appropriate indicated place;
         (d)   Filing the violation notice, with the “non-resident request for
hearing” portion fully completed, with the Traffic Compliance Administrator
postmarked within ten days of the violation notice issuance;  (The request
shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Traffic Compliance Administrator.)
         (e)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice, which must be filed with the Traffic
Compliance Administrator postmarked within ten days of the violation notice
issuance; and  (The request shall be deemed filed, if post marked by the due
dates herein specified.)
         (f)   A clearly marked statement that execution of the non-resident
request for hearing is a waiver of the non-resident’s right to a personal
appearance and that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized
statement of facts submitted by the non-resident and the facts contained in the
violation notice.
   (C)   Service of the violation notice shall be made by the person issuing
the notice by:
      (1)   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the violation notice to an
unlawfully standing or parked vehicle; and/or
      (2)   Handing the violation notice to the registered owner, operator or
lessee of the vehicle, if present.
   (D)   The correctness of facts contained in the vehicular standing, parking
or compliance violation notice shall be certified by the person issuing the
notice by:
      (1)   Signing his or her name to the violation notice at the time of
service; or
      (2)   In the case of a violation notice produced by a computer device, by
signing a single certificate, to be kept by the Traffic Compliance
Administrator, attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while under his or her control.
   (E)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice shall be retained
by the Traffic Compliance Administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary
course of business.
   (F)   Any violation notice issued, signed and served in accordance herewith,
or a copy of the violation notice, shall be prima facie correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the violation
notice.
   (G)   The violation notice or a copy thereof shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 73.04  HEARINGS.
   (A)   An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged standing, parking
or compliance violation(s) on its merits shall be granted to the registered
owner or operator of the cited vehicle, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
208.3 or the lessee of the cited vehicle, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §
11-1306, incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Hearing dates shall be at the date, time and place as is set forth in
the violation notice issued and served, or additional notices issued in
accordance with this chapter.  Violators shall be given no less than three
opportunities to appear and failure to appear by the third scheduled hearing
date will result in a final determination of liability, as hereinafter set
forth.
   (C)   Hearings shall be tape recorded.
   (D)   Hearings shall culminate in a determination of liability or non-
liability, made by the Hearing Officer, who shall consider testimony and other
evidence without the application of the formal or technical rules of evidence.
The Hearing Officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess fines and
penalties in accordance with §
73.09.
   (E)   Persons appearing to contest the alleged standing, parking or
compliance violation on it’s merits may be represented by counsel at their own
expense.
   (F)   The final determination of any matter which may be decided by the
Hearing Officer may be reviewed as is hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.05  ADDITIONAL NOTICES.
   (A)   Upon failure of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle to
appear at the administrative hearing indicated in the vehicular standing,
parking or compliance violation notice(s), or upon final determination of
violation liability, the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall send or cause
to be sent additional notices which:
      (1)   Shall be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle at the address as is recorded with the Secretary of State;
      (2)   Shall be sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the address
last known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease;
      (3)   Shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid; and
      (4)   Service of additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (B)   The additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be in the
following sequence and contain, but not be limited to the following
information.
      (1)   Upon the failure of the registered owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle to appear at the hearing set forth in the vehicular standing, parking
or compliance violation notice(s), additional notice(s) shall be sent, as above
set forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to the following information:
         (a)   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking or compliance violation notice;
         (b)   Particular standing, parking or compliance violated;
         (c)   Vehicle mate and state registration;
         (d)   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment;
         (e)   Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current
status, other than paid in full;
         (f)   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits;
         (g)   Statement that failure to either pay fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle
standing, parking or compliance violation(s) liability for the cited violation
in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated; and
         (h)   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation(s) liability for the
failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, available
administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty
will constitute a debt due and owing the city.
      (2)   A notice of final determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance violation(s) liability shall be sent following an appearance by the
violator and a determination of liability or the failure to appear by the
violator by the third and final hearing date upon conclusion of any
administrative and/or judicial review, as is hereinafter set forth, and the
notice shall contain, but not be limited to the following information and
warnings:
         (a)   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a
debt due and owing the city;
         (b)   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the city within the time specified may result in the city’s filing a
complaint in the Circuit Court to have the unpaid fire or penalty rendered a
judgement in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(f), incorporated
herein and made a part hereof by reference;
         (c)   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located
within the city may be impounded for failure to pay fines or penalties for five
or more vehicular standing, parking or compliance violations; and
         (d)   A warning that the person’s driver’s license may be suspended
for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5, incorporated herein
and made a part hereof by reference.
      (3)   A notice of impending suspension of a person’s drivers license
shall be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine
or penalty that remains due and owing on ten or more vehicular standing or
parking regulation violation(s).
         (a)   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or
penalty owing within 45 days of the date of the notice will result in the
city’s notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5,
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
         (b)   The notice of impending drivers license suspension shall be sent
by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
Secretary of State.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.06  FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY.
   A final determination of vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation
(s) liability shall:
   (A)   Occur following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the Hearing Officer’s determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance violation(s) liability and the exhaustion of or the failure to
properly request any administrative review procedures or remedies created
hereinafter set forth in §
73.07; or
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at a prior hearing or by the third and
final administrative hearing provided to contest the alleged violation(s) on
the date and at the time and place specified in a prior served or mailed
notice, the Hearing Officer’s determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance violation(s) liability shall become final:
      (1)   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination;
or
      (2)   Upon the expiration of the period for filing the petition without a
filing having been made.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.07  REVIEW.
   A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance violation(s) liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine
or penalty in the manner and subject to the restrictions and grounds
hereinafter set forth.
   (A)   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability must be
filed in the office of the Traffic Compliance Administrator within, but not
later than, 14 days from the date the determination of liability is made.
   (B)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall act upon the petition(s)
timely filed and render a decision thereon within 14 days of the date filed.
   (C)   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
      (1)   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date the vehicular
standing, parking or compliance violation notice(s) was issued;
      (2)   The person who paid the fine or penalty prior to the determination
of liability for the violation(s) in question; and
      (3)   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   (D)   Should the determination of liability be set aside, the Traffic
Compliance Administrator shall:
      (1)   Notify the registered owner or lessee, as the case may be, that the
determination of liability has been set aside;
      (2)   Notify the registered owner or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
determination of liability has been set aside;
      (3)   Notice of setting aside of the determination of liability and the
notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address set forth on the petition to set aside the determination of liability;
and
      (4)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice(s)
are deposited in the United States mail.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.08  NON-RESIDENT PROCEDURES.
   Non-residents of the city who have been served a vehicular standing, parking
or compliance violation notice, in accordance with this chapter, may contest
the alleged violation on its merits, as could a resident, or may contest the
validity without personally appearing at an administrative hearing by:
   (A)   Completing, in full, the non-resident request for hearing section of
the violation notice, served upon him or her pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   Signing the non-resident request for hearing in the space specified in
the violation notice, and acknowledging that his or her personal appearance is
waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized statement
filed by him or her and the facts contained in the violation notice;
   (C)   Filing the violation notice, with the request for hearing section
fully completed with the Traffic Compliance Administrator and postmarked within
ten days of the violation notice issuance:  (The request shall be deemed filed
upon receipt by the Traffic Compliance Administrator.)
   (D)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the Traffic
Compliance Administrator and postmarked within ten days of the violation notice
issuance;  (The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Traffic
Compliance Administrator.  The acceptance of a non-resident request for hearing
after the due date or with cause, at the discretion of the Traffic Compliance
Administrator, may be accepted for hearing consideration and decision.)
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts
set forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the non-resident and as
is contained in the violation notice:
   (F)   Notice of the determination of the Hearing Officer shall be served
upon the non-resident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
non-resident at the address set forth in the submitted statement of facts;
   (G)   Service of the violation notice shall be complete on the date the
notice is placed in the United States mail; and
   (H)   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to non-
residents of the city.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.09  SCHEDULE OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The fines and penalties, which shall be imposed for vehicular
standing, parking or compliance violation(s), shall be as follows:
 
Fine Payment Schedule Part One -
No Hearing Requested
                                                                             General Handicapped Traffic
Fine Schedule                                                                Fine    Fine Amount Compliance
                                                                             Amount
Step 1:  Upon service of a violation notice issued and paid within ten days
of the violation notice issuance, and no request for hearing has been timely $50     $100        $50
filed
Step 2:  Having failed to pay the fine amount by the deadline date (within
ten days of the violation notice issuance) as specified in Step 1, if paid   $100    $150        $100
after the deadline date in Step 1 above, but within 30 days of the violation
notice issuance, and no request for hearing has been timely filed
Step 3:  Having failed to pay the fine amount by the deadline date (within
30 days of the violation notice issuance) as specified in Step 2, if paid    $150    $175        $150
after the deadline date in Step 2 above, but within 60 days of the violation
notice issuance, and no request for hearing has been timely filed
Step 4:  Having failed to pay the fine amount by the deadline date (within
60 days of the violation notice issuance) as specified in Step 3, if paid    $200    $200        $200
after the deadline date in Step 3 above, but within 90 days of the violation
notice issuance, and no request for hearing has been timely filed
Step 5:  Having failed to pay the fine amount by the deadline date (within
90 days of the violation notice issuance) as specified in Step 4, if paid    $250    $250        $250
after the deadline date in Step 4 above, and no request for hearing has been
timely filed
 
 
Fine Payment Schedule Part Two - Hearing Requested,
Held and Finding of Liability Made
Fine Schedule          General Fine Amount Handicapped Fine Traffic Compliance
                                           Amount
Step A: Upon the
issuance of a
violation notice and a
timely request for
hearing being made and $50                 $100             $50
a finding of liability
at said hearing being
made and paid within
ten days of the
finding of liability
Step B: Having failed
to pay the fine amount
by the deadline date
(within ten days of
the finding of
liability) as          $100                $150             $100
specified in Step A,
if paid after the
deadline date in Step
A above, but within 30
days of the finding of
liability
Step C: Having failed
to pay the fine amount
by the deadline date
(within 30 days of the
finding of liability)
as specified in Step   $150                $175             $150
B, if paid after the
deadline date in Step
B above, but within 60
days of the finding of
liability
Step D: Having failed
to pay the fine amount
by the deadline date
(within 60 days of the
finding of liability)
as specified in Step   $200                $200             $200
C, if paid after the
deadline date in Step
C above, but within 90
days of the finding of
liability
Step E: Having failed
to pay the fine amount
by the deadline date
(within 90 days of the
finding of liability)  $250                $250             $250
as specified in Step
D, if paid after the
deadline date in Step
D above
 
   (B)   (1)   The fines and penalties herein set forth shall be uniformly
applied for each violation of any applicable city ordinance.
      (2)   Any person subject to fine and penalty under Fine Payment Schedule
Part Two, Steps A, B, C, or D who files a timely petition to set aside pursuant
to §
73.07, or who seeks judicial review as referenced in §
73.12, may avoid the increase of the next and subsequent steps by paying the
amount indicated by the applicable step at the time of payment. If under §
73.07 a finding of no liability is made or if the fine is reversed on judicial
review, the city shall refund said fine and penalties paid under this section.
   (C)   The city adopts by reference all current and future local standing,
parking or condition of vehicle ordinances and those provisions of the State
Complied Statues governing the standing, parking or condition of vehicles for
its enforcement and adjudication within the geographical boundaries of the city
and in those areas subject to off-street parking agreements.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 73.10  CERTIFIED REPORT; CONTESTING REPORT.
   (A)   Upon a failure to pay fines and penalties deemed due and owing the
city after the exhaustion of administrative procedures set forth herein for ten
or more vehicular parking regulation violations, the Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall make a certified report to the Secretary of State stating
that the owner of a registered vehicle has failed to pay any fine or penalty
due and owing the city as a result of ten or more violations of city vehicular
standing or parking regulations and thereby cause the suspension of that
person’s driver’s license.
   (B)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall take no further action
unless and until the fines and penalties due and owing the city are paid or
upon determination that the inclusion of the person’s name on the certified
report was in error.  At the time, the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall
submit to the Secretary of State a notification which shall result in the
halting of a driver’s license suspension proceedings.  The person named therein
shall receive a certified copy of the notification upon request and at no
charge.
   (C)   Persons may challenge the accuracy of the certified report by
completing a form provided by the office of the Traffic Compliance
Administrator.  The form shall specify the grounds on which the challenge is
based. Grounds for challenge shall be limited to the following:
      (1)   The person was neither the owner nor the lessee of the vehicle(s)
receiving ten or more violation notices on the date or dates the notices were
issued; or
      (2)   The person has paid the fine and/or penalty for the ten or more
violations indicated on the certified report.
   (D)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall render a determination
within 14 business days of receipt of the objection form and shall notify the
objector of the determination.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.11  IMMOBILIZATION; TOWING AND IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle, whose registered owner has been determined to be
liable for five or more vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation(s)
for which the fines or penalties assessed remain unpaid, may be immobilized or
towed and impounded if:
      (1)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator has determined that a person
has been determined to be liable for five or more vehicular standing, parking
or compliance violation(s) for which the fines or penalties remain unpaid.
      (2)   The person determined to be liable for five or more violations is
the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the city’s geographical
boundaries.
      (3)   A pre-towing notice has been sent to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle located within the geographical boundaries of the city which pre-
towing notice shall contain, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   A final determination has been made on five or more vehicular
standing, parking or compliance violation(s) for which the fines and penalties
remain unpaid;
         (b)   A listing of the violation(s) for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
            1.   The vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation notice
number;
            2.   Date of issuance of the violation notice(s); and
            3.   Total amount of fine(s) and penalty(s) assessed.
         (c)   The motor vehicle(s) owned by the person and located within the
city is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the fines
and penalties are not paid within 14 days of the date of the pre-towing notice;
         (d)   The registered owner may contest the validity of the pre-towing
notice by fully completing and signing the request for hearing portion of the
pre-towing notice and by filing the request for hearing with the Traffic
Compliance Administrator within, but not later than, 14 days of the date of the
pre-towing notice; and
         (e)   The request for hearing shall be deemed filed upon receipt by
the Traffic Compliance Administrator.
      (4)   The registered owner of the motor vehicle(s) to whom a pre-towing
notice is sent has failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as
specified in the pre-towing notice and no timely request for hearing has been
filed with the Traffic Compliance Administrator to contest the validity of the
notice; and
      (5)   Upon the receipt of a request for hearing to contest the validity
or the pre-towing notice of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment,
the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing,
to contest the validity of pre-towing notice by disproving liability for the
unpaid final determinations of parking, standing or compliance violation
liability listed on the pre- towing notice, on the next available hearing date,
but, in no case, shall the hearing be schedule later than 60 days after the
request for hearing is filed.
         (a)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall serve notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner.
         (b)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         (c)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
   (B)   The registered owner of a vehicle(s) immobilized or towed and
impounded under this section, shall have the right to a prompt administrative
hearing without the requirement of payment of outstanding fines and penalties
for which final determination has been made.
      (1)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall serve a post-towing
notice upon the registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and
impounded under this section which post-towing notice shall contain, but not be
limited to the following information:
         (a)   Date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment;
         (b)   Location of vehicle;
         (c)   That the vehicle was immobilized under this section of this
chapter for non-payment of fines or penalties assessed for five or more
vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation(s) for which the registered
owner has been determined liable and notified of impending immobilization or
towing and impoundment;
         (d)   Date of the pre-towing notice of impending immobilization or
towing and impoundment; and
         (e)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the request
for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing with the
Traffic Compliance Administrator within, but not later than, 14 days of the
date of the post-towing notice which shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
Traffic Compliance Administrator.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the Traffic Compliance
Administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing, to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, on the next available hearing
date or sooner for good cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be
scheduled later than 60 days after the request for hearing is filed.
         (a)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall serve notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner.
         (b)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         (c)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
      (3)   An order entered after the hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final administrative decision
within the meaning of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., incorporated
herein and made a part hereof by reference.
   (C)   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall be released to the
registered owner thereof, or his or her agent, upon payment of the fines and
penalties due and owing the city as specified in the pre-towing notice sent in
accordance with division (A)(3) above and the payment of towing charges and
accrued daily impound charges or upon order of the Hearing Officer following
hearing contesting the validity of the impoundment.
   (D)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall appoint or retain the
services of an individual agency or company to tow and impound vehicles in
accordance herewith, provided:
      (1)   The individual, agency or company is fully licensed according to
local and state law;
      (2)   The individual, agency or company is fully insured; and
      (3)   (a)   The individual, agency or company has available a secured
impound area within which to retain vehicles impounded hereunder.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (D)(3), the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            SECURED AREA.  An area bounded by a fence, chain-link or otherwise,
of a sufficient height and with locking gates so as to minimize or prevent
unauthorized entry into the impounded vehicles.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.12  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Judicial review of final determinations of vehicular standing, parking or
compliance violation(s) and final administrative decisions issued after hearing
(s) regarding vehicle immobilization or towing and impoundment made under the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the
Administrative Review Act, as set forth in ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et
seq., incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 73.13  DEBT TO CITY.
   Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty assessed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion
of or the failure to properly request any administrative review procedure or
remedies created under this section and the conclusion of any judicial review
procedures shall be a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with the applicable law.  Payment in full of any fine
or penalty resulting from a standing, parking or compliance violation shall
constitute a final disposition of that violation, except as to the provisions
of §
73.09(B)(1).
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 73.14  JUDGMENT.
   (A)   The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall, following the expiration
of the period within which administrative or judicial review may be sought for
a final determination of violation, take all necessary action(s), execute all
required documents and appoint or retain any individual or agency deemed
appropriate to obtain a judgment against and collect moneys from the person(s)
who have been assessed fines or penalties which remain unpaid and have become a
debt due and owing the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3, by:
      (1)   Filing a complaint in the Circuit Court praying for the entry of a
judgment against the person for whom a final determination of liability for
standing, parking or compliance violation(s) has been made;
      (2)   Attaching to the complaint filed by the Traffic Compliance
Administrator or individual or agency on behalf of the city seeking entry of a
judgment against an individual for unpaid fines and/or penalties pursuant to a
final determination of standing, parking or compliance violation(s) the
following:
         (a)   A certified copy of the final determination of the standing,
parking or compliance violation(s); and
         (b)   A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
final determination of standing, parking or compliance violation(s) was(were)
issued in accordance with this chapter and ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3.
      (3)   Nothing shall prevent the city from consolidating multiple final
determinations of standing, parking or compliance violation(s) liability in an
action in the Circuit Court against an individual; and
      (4)   Pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgments.
   (B)   Service of summons and a copy of the complaint may be served upon the
person against whom a judgment is sought under the provisions of this chapter
by any method provided under ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203, which is
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference, or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, provided the total amount of fines and penalties for
final determination of standing, parking or compliance violation(s) does not
exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 1415, passed 4-21-1998)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Two-way streets
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   Stop streets and intersections
   
V.   Turning movements
   
VI.   Restricted operation
   
VII.   Weight limits
   
VIII.   Through streets
   
IX.   Traffic-control signals; erection and maintenance
SCHEDULE I.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor vehicle to travel
contrary to the following.  The Superintendent of Streets shall erect the
appropriate signs.
 
Street             Location              Direction         Ord. No. Date Passed
                   From its intersection
                   with Edwardsville
Gillespie Street   Road to its           All, except south 1145     5-2-1989
                   intersection with
                   Meridian Avenue
                   Between Plum Street
McCambridge Street and Edwardsville Road South             1008     6-8-1982
                   (Illinois Route 203)
                   From its intersection
                   with Edwardsville
Staunton Street    Road to its           All, except north 1144     5-2-1989
                   intersection with
                   Meridian Avenue
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II.  TWO-WAY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person driving any motor vehicle to travel
contrary to the following.  The Superintendent of Streets shall erect the
appropriate signs.
 
Street     Special Provision                           Ord. No. Date Passed
2nd Street Travel shall be on the right-hand side only 1161     4-3-1990
3rd Street Travel shall be on the right-hand side only 1161     4-3-1990
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III.  SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor vehicle to drive in a
speed exceeding the following.  The Superintendent of Streets shall erect the
appropriate signs.
Street Location Special Provisions Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street    Location                                                                   Special     Speed Ord.  Date
                                                                                     Provisions  Limit No.   Passed
Chain of  Both sides approaching the Chain of Rocks Canal Bridge and on said bridge  From 600    25          9-24-
Rock Road itself                                                                     feet east   mph   1591B 2002
                                                                                     or west
                                                                                     Between
                                                                                     westernmost
Chain of  Both sides approaching the Chain of Rocks Canal Bridge and on said bridge  and         20    1591B 9-24-
Rock Road itself                                                                     easternmost mph         2002
                                                                                     bridge
                                                                                     abutment
                                                                                     School
Farish    From 4th Street to Rhodes Street                                           speed zone; 20    1158  10-3-
Street                                                                               from 7 a.m. mph         1989
                                                                                     to 4 p.m.
          Beginning at a point approx. half the length  of the block between Harris School
Farish    Avenue and Skeen Street and proceeding south to a point approx. 50 feet    speed zone; 20    1589  9-10-
Street    beyond the intersection with Fourth Street                                 from 7 a.m. mph         2002
                                                                                     to 4 p.m.
                                                                                     School
Farish    Beginning at its intersection with Milan and proceeding south to a point   speed zone; 20    1589  9-10-
Street    approx. three quarters of the block between McCasland and Beckwith         from 7 a.m. mph         2002
                                                                                     to 4 p.m.
          Beginning at a point approx. 125 feet west of its intersection with        School
McCasland Farrish Avenue and proceeding east through said intersection onto Caine    speed zone; 20    1589  9-10-
Street    Drive to a point approximately 400 feet east of its intersection with      from 7 a.m. mph         2002
          Farrish Avenue                                                             to 4 p.m.
McCasland                                                                            School
Avenue/   From Rhodes Street to a point 500 feet east of its intersection of Farish  speed zone; 20    1158  10-3-
Caine     Street                                                                     from 7 a.m. mph         1989
Drive                                                                                to 4 p.m.
                                                                                     School
Seventh   Beginning at its intersection with Lee Street and proceeding generally     speed zone; 20    1588  9-10-
Street    east to and including its intersection with Sixth Street                   from 7 a.m. mph         2002
                                                                                     to 4 p.m.
State                                                                                            35    755   2-21-
Street                                                                                           mph         1962
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  STOP STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor vehicle to fail to
stop at the following intersections.  The Superintendent of Streets shall erect
the appropriate signs.
Street Location Direction(s) Type of Stop Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Location                         Direction Type of Ord. Date
                                              (s)       Stop    No.  Passed
             Intersection of Illinois Highway           One-way 1551 6-19-
             Route 203 and Maverick Avenue                           2001
             In front of Madison Recreation             School  673  7-1-1952
             Center                                     stop
             Intersection with Highland       West              936  6-14-
             Avenue                                                  1977
2nd Street   Intersection with Highland       East              863  3-28-
             Street                                                  1972
             Intersection with Alton Avenue             School  674  7-1-1952
                                                        stop
3rd Street   Intersection with Alton Avenue             School  674  7-1-1952
                                                        stop
             Intersection with Highland       East and          865  5-9-1972
4th Street   Street                           west
             Intersection with Alton Avenue             School  674  7-1-1952
                                                        stop
             Intersection with Highland       East and          862  3-28-
5th Street   Street                           west                   1972
             Intersection with Alton Avenue             School  674  7-1-1952
                                                        stop
             Intersection with Ewing Avenue   East              859  3-14-
6th Street                                                           1972
             Intersection with Alton Avenue             School  674  7-1-1952
                                                        stop
7th Street   Between “L” Street and Alton           School  674  7-1-1952
             Avenue                                     stop
             Intersection with Washington     South and         899  8-12-
8th Street   Avenue                           north                  1975
             Intersection with Alton Avenue   East              860  3-28-
                                                                     1972
             Intersection with Lee Avenue     East              882  10-9-
                                                                     1973
             Intersection with Iowa Street    East and          889  5-21-
10th Street                                   west                   1974
             Intersection with Alton Avenue   South             881  10-9-
                                                                     1973
             Intersection with Washington     East and          938  7-26-
             Avenue                           west                   1977
12th Street  Intersection with Iowa Street    East              923  11-2-
                                                                     1976
13th Street  Intersection with Iowa Street    East and          955  9-18-
                                              west                   1979
Alton Avenue Intersection with James Street   North             880  10-9-
                                                                     1973
Collinsville Intersection with Alton Street   East and          924  11-17-
Avenue                                        west                   1976
             Intersection with McCasland      North             929  1-11-
Farish       Avenue                                                  1977
Street       Intersection with 6th Street     North and         1199 9-2-1991
                                              south
Farrish      Intersection with Skeen Street   North and         1211 9-15-
Street                                        south                  1992
Gillespie    Intersection with Meridian       West              1095 12-3-
Street       Avenue                                                  1985
Grand Avenue Intersection with 12th Street    Both              1033 10-25-
                                                                     1983
             Intersection with Plum Street    South and         900  8-12-
Greenwood                                     north                  1975
Street       Intersection with James Avenue   North and         914  6-29-
                                              south                  1976
Iowa Street  Intersection with 12th Street    West              922  10-5-
                                                                     1977
             Intersection with Alton Avenue   West              864  3-28-
James Street                                                         1972
             Intersection with Reynolds       East              1093 12-3-
             Street                                                  1985
             Intersection with Elizabeth      South             956  9-18-
McCambridge  Street                                                  1979
Avenue       Intersection with Plum Street    South             1387 12-2-
                                                                     1997
             Intersection with Rhodes Avenue  East              861  3-28-
Milan Street                                                         1972
             Intersection with Rhodes Avenue  West              870  10-24-
                                                                     1972
Reynolds     Intersection with Plum Street    North and         925  11-20-
Street                                        south                  1976
             Intersection with McNair Avenue  West              871  10-24-
Rhodes                                                               1972
Avenue       Intersection with Farish Street  West              869  10-24-
                                                                     1972
             Intersection with McNair Street  East              872  11-22-
                                                                     1972
             Intersection with Farish Street  East              873  1-16-
Rhodes                                                               1973
Street       Intersection with 6th Street     South             858  3-14-
                                                                     1972
             Intersection with Alton Avenue             School  674  7-1-1952
                                                        stop
             Railroad grade crossing with the North and              3-23-
State Street tracks of Illinois Terminal      south             911  1976
             Railroad Company
Staunton     Intersection with Meridian       West              1094 12-3-
Avenue       Avenue                                                  1985
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE V.  TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor vehicle to make
turning movements contrary to the following.  The Superintendent of Streets
shall erect the appropriate signs.
 
Street             Direction(s) Restrictions/Special      Ord. No. Date Passed
                                Provisions
Bissell Street                  No U-turn                 1556     7-17-2001
                                No turning to the left in
                   North        a westerly direction and  814      4-1-1969
McCambridge Avenue              onto 2nd Street
                                No turning left in a
                                southerly direction and   814      4-1-1969
                                into Edwardsville Road
Illinois Route 3   East         No U-turn                 1556     7-17-2001
West 2nd Street    West         No U-turn                 1556     7-17-2001
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VI.  RESTRICTED OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any vehicle to travel contrary
to the following.  The Superintendent of Streets shall erect appropriate signs.
 
Street             Restrictions/Special       Direction(s) Ord. No. Date Passed
                   Provisions
2nd Street         No motor truck, tractor or All          725      9-22-1959
                   trailer shall be operated
                   Operation across the
                   intersection of
                   Edwardsville Road and
McCambridge Avenue McCambridge Avenue and     North        814      4-1-1969
                   onto that part of
                   McCambridge Avenue lying
                   north of the intersection
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VII.  WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor vehicle to drive
in the following locations in the city in excess of the following vehicle
weights.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Streets shall erect appropriate signs.
Street Location Weight Limit Ord. No Date Passed
Street             Location            Weight Limit Ord. No    Date Passed
2nd Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
3rd Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
4th Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
5th Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
6th Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
7th Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
8th Street                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
10th Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
12th Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
13th Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
14th Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Alton Avenue                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Beckwith Avenue                        Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Bissell Avenue                         Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Collinsville                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Avenue
                   From Alton Avenue
Edwardsville Road  to McCambridge      Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
                   Avenue
Elizabeth Street                       Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Ewing Avenue                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Farrish Street                         Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Franklin Street                        Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Golf Drive                             Five tons    698        4-20-2004
Grand Avenue                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Greenwood Street                       Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Harris Street                          Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Highland Avenue                        Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Iowa Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Jackson Street                         Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
James Street                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Jefferson Street                       Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Kohl Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Lee Avenue                             Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Madison Avenue                         10,000 lbs.  1558       8-14-2001
Market Street                          Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
                   From Elizabeth
McCambridge Avenue Street to           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
                   Edwardsville Road
McCasland Avenue                       Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
McNair Avenue                          Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Milan Avenue                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Plum Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Race Street                            Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Reynolds Street                        Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Rhodes Street                          Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Skeen Street                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
State Street                           10,000 lbs.  1558       8-14-2001
Washington Avenue                      Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Webster Street                         Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
West Washington                        Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Street
West 2nd Street    From Bissell Street Five tons    1634; 1791 4-20-2004; 1-26-
                   to Madison Street                           2016
West 3rd Street    From Bissell Street Five tons    1634; 1791 4-20-2004; 1-26-
                   to Madison Street                           2016
West Madison                           Five tons    1634       4-20-2004
Street
 
   (C)   Exceptions.  When making local deliveries to destinations on or
operating at work sites located on Madison Avenue or on State street, or within
the corporate boundaries of the city, heavy motor vehicles and equipment
weighing in excess of five tons gross weight as set forth in this section, may
operate on west 3rd Street from Illinois State Route 203 to 3rd Street’s
intersection with Alton Avenue, then south on Alton Avenue to Wayne Lanter
Avenue.  The street commonly known as Fairway Drive (from Eagle Park Road to
the limits of Fairway Drive) will be designated as a truck route.  The street
commonly known as Industrial Street, from Eagle Park Road to the city corporate
limits for as much as roadway improvements are made.
   (D)   When any vehicle is operated in violation of this Schedule VII, the
owner or driver of the vehicle shall be deemed guilty of a violation and either
the owner or the driver of the vehicle may be prosecuted for the violation. Any
person, firm, or corporation convicted of violating this Schedule VII shall be
fined $50 for any weight exceeding the posted limit up to the axle or gross
weight limit allowed a vehicle as provided for in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111
(a) or (b)  and $75 per every 500 pounds or fraction thereof for any weight
exceeding that which is provided for in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(a) or
(b).
(Ord. 1635, passed 4-20-2004; Am. Ord. 1651, passed 5-3-2005; Am. Ord. 1680,
passed 12-12-2006; Am. Ord. 1682, passed 12-26-2006; Am. Ord. 1710, passed 6-9-
2009; Am. Ord. 1791, passed 1-26-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Other size and weight restrictions, see §§
70.45 through
70.49
SCHEDULE VIII.  THROUGH STREETS.
   The following streets are considered through streets.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                 Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
2nd Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
3rd Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
4th Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
5th Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
6th Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
7th Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
8th Street                                                 674      7-1-1952
10th Street                                                674      7-1-1952
12th Street                                                674      7-1-1952
13th Street                                                674      7-1-1952
14th Street                                                674      7-1-1952
Alton Avenue           From 7th Street to Elizabeth Street 674      7-1-1952
Beckwith Street        From Rhodes Street to Farrish       674      7-1-1952
                       Street
Bissell Street                                             723      7-28-1959
Collinsville Avenue                                        674      7-1-1952
County Road                                                723      7-28-1959
Edwardsville Road      From Alton Avenue to McCambridge    674      7-1-1952
                       Avenue
Elizabeth Street                                           674      7-1-1952
Franklin Street                                            723      7-28-1959
Grand Avenue           From 8th Street to 14th Street      674      7-1-1952
Greenwood Street       From Edwardsville Road to Elizabeth 674      7-1-1952
                       Street
Harris Street          From McCambridge Avenue to Farrish  674      7-1-1952
                       Street
Jackson Street                                             723      7-28-1959
Jefferson Street                                           723      7-28-1959
Madison Avenue                                             674      7-1-1952
Market Street                                              674      7-1-1952
McCambridge Avenue     From 2nd Street to Edwardsville     674      7-1-1952
                       Road
Reynolds Street        From Edwardsville Road to Elizabeth 674      7-1-1952
                       Street
Rhodes Street          From Alton Avenue to Farrish Street 674      7-1-1952
State Street                                               674      7-1-1952
Washington Avenue      From 7th Street to 14th Street      674      7-1-1952
Webster Street                                             723      7-28-1959
West Washington Street                                     723      7-28-1959
West 3rd Street                                            723      7-28-1959
West 2nd Street                                            723      7-28-1959
West Madison Street                                        723      7-28-1959
 
SCHEDULE IX.  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS; ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Traffic-control signs and signals shall be erected and maintained at the
following locations.
Street Location Special Provisions Type of Signal(s) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Location     Special        Type of Signal  Ord. No. Date Passed
                            Provisions     (s)
                                           Electric
               Intersection                traffic-control
3rd Street     with Madison                and pedestrian  730      1-26-1960
               Avenue                      crosswalk
                                           signals
               Intersection                School crossing
               with Madison                and pedestrian  747      3-28-1969
               Avenue                      crosswalk
                                           signals
6th Street     Intersection                Electric
               with                        traffic-control
               McCambridge                 and pedestrian  835      1-20-1970
               Avenue                      crosswalk
                                           signals
               Intersection                School crossing
10th Street    with Madison                and pedestrian  747      3-28-1969
               Avenue                      crosswalk
                                           signals
                                           Electric
               Intersection                traffic-control
12th Street    with Madison                and pedestrian  730      1-26-1960
               Avenue                      crosswalk
                                           signals
                                           Electric
               Intersection                traffic-control
               with 3rd                    and pedestrian  730      1-26-1960
               Street                      crosswalk
                                           signals
                                           Electric
               Intersection                traffic-control
               with 12th                   and pedestrian  730      1-26-1960
Madison Avenue Street                      crosswalk
                                           signals
               Intersection                School crossing
               with 6th                    and pedestrian  747      3-28-1969
               Street                      crosswalk
                                           signals
               Intersection                School crossing
               with 10th                   and pedestrian  747      3-28-1969
               Street                      crosswalk
                                           signals
                                           Electric
McCambridge    Intersection                traffic-control
Avenue         with 6th                    and pedestrian  835      1-20-1970
               Street                      crosswalk
                                           signals
                            Exit from
                            General Steele Electric
State Street   1300 Block   Industries,    traffic-control 768      4-28-1964
                            Inc., parking  signals
                            lot
 
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Handicapped parking spaces
   
II.   Parking restrictions
   
III.   Loading and unloading
Cross-reference:
   Regulating paved municipal parcels and lots, see §
130.07
SCHEDULE I.  HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor vehicle to park in any
of the following spaces unless physically handicapped and authorized to do so. 
The Superintendent of Streets shall erect appropriate signs.
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                      Ord. No.   Date Passed
500 West 2nd Street                           1545       1-30-2001
1129 Reynolds                                 1544; 1545 1-30-2001; 1-30-2001
1656 3rd Street                               1225       11-23-1993
1658 3rd Street                               1126       11-23-1993
832 Greenwood Street                          1223       9-14-1993
East side of Iowa Street, beginning at the
northeast corner of its intersection with 8th 1215       3-2-1993
Street, distance of 20 feet north therefrom
1310 Washington Avenue                        1246       8-16-1994
1601 3rd Street                               1259; 1335 7-18-1995; 10-22-1996
1827 Edwardsville Road                        1250       1-3-1995
1610 4th Street                               1269       9-12-1995
1632 5th Street                               1284       1-16-1996
416 Ewing Avenue                              1311       6-18-1996
418 Ewing Avenue                              1312       6-18-1996
722 Washington Avenue                         1319       7-16-1996
940 Alton Avenue                              1353       2-25-1997
812 West Washington Street                    1357       4-22-1997
1636 2nd Street                               1358       4-22-1997
1633 Market Street                            1399       1-27-1998
2043 6th Street; rear of property             1459-A     10-6-1998
709 Bissell Street                            1460       10-6-1998
1723 5th Street                               1469       12-1-1998
6th Street and Madison Avenue intersection;   1470       12-1-1998
U.S. Post Office
600 Madison Avenue; Magna Bank, N.A.          1471       12-1-1998
1000 Madison Avenue; Croation Home            1472       12-1-1998
1700 5th Street                               1483       4-6-1999
1929 Harris Street                            1482       4-6-1999
1630 3rd Street                               1480       3-9-1999
1504 3rd Street; Hair Fair                    1479       2-23-1999
709 Washington Street                         1478       2-23-1999
814 Webster Street                            1477       2-23-1999
1819 Edwardsville Road                        1505       10-19-1999
925 Madison Avenue                            1509       12-27-1999
1641 3rd Street                               1510       12-27-1999
1013 Iowa Street                              1512       1-25-2000
2043 6th Street                               1513       1-25-2000
1993 Harris Street                            1538       11-7-2000
1121 Grand Avenue                             1539       11-7-2000
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II.  PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any motor vehicle to park in the
following locations.  The Superintendent of Streets shall erect appropriate
signs.
Street Location Side(s) Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Location                                                              Side   Special Provisions              Ord. Date
                                                                                   (s)                                    No.  Passed
            New City Hall complex                                                        Parking from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.   1348 1-14-
                                                                                          only                                 1997
                                                                                         Trailers, trucks and tractors   725  9-22-
                                                                                          are prohibited                       1959
             Between the westerly boundary line of McCambridge Avenue and the      North                                 641  11-8-
             easterly boundary line of Madison Avenue                                                                          1949
2nd Street                                                                                Parking for an hour at a time
                                                                                          during the hours of 7 a.m. and       11-18-
             From Madison Avenue to State Street                                          5 p.m.; parking is prohibited   677  1952
                                                                                          from the hours of 2 a.m. and 6
                                                                                          a.m.
             1500 block                                                            North  No parking in designated        1391 1-13-
                                                                                          “Street Department parking”      1998
             From its intersection with McCambridge Avenue to its intersection     North  Designated “tow away zone”  1494 6-29-
             with Highland Avenue                                                                                              1999
3rd Street                                                                                Parking for an hour at a time
                                                                                          during the hours of 7 a.m. and       11-18-
             From Washington Avenue to State Street                                       5 p.m.; parking is prohibited   677  1952
                                                                                          from the hours of 2 a.m. and 6
                                                                                          a.m.
                                                                                          Parking for an hour at a time
                                                                                          during the hours of 7 a.m. and       11-18-
4th Street   From Madison Avenue to State Street                                          5 p.m.; parking is prohibited   677  1952
                                                                                          from the hours of 2 a.m. and 6
                                                                                          a.m.
             From 1520 4th Street to the corner of Madison Ave                     South  All times                       1813 10-17-
                                                                                                                               2017
6th Street   From the centerline of McCambridge Avenue to a point 80 feet west     Both                                  1013 9-14-
             thereof                                                                                                           1982
                                                                                          Limited to 10 consecutive
7th Street   Between Alton Avenue and Lee Street                                   South  minutes during the hours of 7:  1721 3-30-
                                                                                          00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. while          2010
                                                                                          school is in session
                                                                                  North  Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
                                                                                          5 p.m.                               1966
                                                                                          Sundays from 7 a.m. to 11:59
Bissell                                                                                   p.m.; all times for residents
Street       The north side of the 800 and 900 block                               North  fronted by the no parking zone; 1579 5-7-
                                                                                          anytime by Southern Missionary       2002
                                                                                          Baptist Church attendees,
                                                                                          participants, or workers
                                                                                  North  Parallel parking only permitted 904  9-9-
Collinsville                                                                                                                   1975
Avenue                                                                            South                                 904  9-9-
                                                                                                                               1975
             From its intersection with Highway 203 west to the city’s corporate South  Designated “tow away zone”  1422 5-19-
Eagle Park   boundary                                                                                                          1998
Road         From its intersection with Highway 203 west for a distance of 518                                                 5-19-
             feet and then beginning again at a point 930 feet west from the       North  Designated “tow away zone”  1422 1998
             intersection west to the city’s corporate boundary
             West of McCambridge Avenue; From McCambridge Avenue to a point 70                                                 6-8-
             feet west of the centerline of McCambridge Avenue, the point being    North                                 1009 1982
Edwardsville five feet west of McCambridge Avenue
Road         West of McCambridge Avenue; From McCambridge Avenue to a point 117                                                6-8-
             west of the centerline of McCambridge Avenue, the point being 20 feet South                                 1009 1982
             west of the reconstructed radius return of Edwardsville Road
FAP Route    (Illinois 203-McCambridge Avenue and Edwardsville Road); between      Both                                  1009 6-8-
586          Rhodes Street and McNair Street                                                                                   1982
             From Skeen Street northerly to McCasland Avenue                       East                                  1133 8-23-
Farish                                                                                                                         1988
Street       From Harris Street northerly to McCasland Avenue                      West                                  1133 8-23-
                                                                                                                               1988
FAU Route    From the southerly city limits to the northerly city limits           Both                                  1019 11-9-
9097                                                                                                                           1982
Franklin                                                                                 Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
Street                                                                                    5 p.m.                               1966
Frontage     10.04 feet of FAP 594 from Big Bend Road north to Illinois Terminal          Designated “tow away zone”  1417 5-5-
Road         right-of-way                                                                                                      1998
Gillespie    From Edwardsville Road northerly to Meridian Avenue                   East                                  1147 5-2-
Street                                                                                                                         1989
Golf Course  From its intersection with Eagle Park south to its end                       Designated “tow away zone”  1424 5-19-
Road                                                                                                                           1998
Illinois     From Harrison Street north to a point 650 feet south of 6th Street    Both                                  1186 2-19-
Route 203                                                                                                                      1991
(FAP Route
586 -        From its intersection with Big Bend Road west to the city limits             Designated “tow away zone”  1418 5-5-
McCambridge                                                                                                                    1998
Avenue)
Industrial   From its intersection with Eagle Park Road south to its end                  Designated “tow away zone”  1423 5-19-
Drive                                                                                                                          1998
Jackson                                                                                  Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
Street                                                                                    5 p.m.                               1966
Jefferson                                                                                Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
Street                                                                                    5 p.m.                               1966
             Along that street and streets immediately adjacent thereto                                                  745  3-28-
                                                                                                                               1961
             Between 6th Street and 7th Street                                     West   30-minute parking only, between 1322 9-24-
                                                                                          7 a.m. and 6 p.m.                    1996
Madison      From the intersection of 14th Street north to the city limits         East                                  1135 10-18-
Avenue                                                                                                                         1988
                                                                                          Parking for an hour at a time
                                                                                          during the hours of 7 a.m. and       11-18-
             From 2nd Street to 14th Street                                               5 p.m.; parking is prohibited   677  1952
                                                                                          from the hours of 2 a.m. and 6
                                                                                          a.m.
             From its intersection with Bend Road south to its intersection with                                         1359 4-30-
             the north right-of-way boundary line of U.S. Interstate 55/70                                                     1997
Madison Road From its intersection with Ohio Street south to its intersection with East                                        12-19-
             the northerly right-of-way boundary to U.S. Interstate 55/70          or                                    1278 1995
                                                                                   west
             Along either the northerly or southerly side of Edwardsville Road,    North                                       2-22-
             east of McCambridge Avenue                                            and                                   692  1955
                                                                                   south
             Between the northerly line of Collinsville Avenue and the southerly   East                                        2-22-
             line of Edwardsville Road                                             and                                   692  1955
                                                                                   west
             North of Illinois 203; from Edwardsville Road to a point 70 feet      West                                  1009 6-8-
McCambridge  north of the centerline of Edwardsville Road                                                                      1982
Avenue       From the intersection with Edwardsville Road north to the             West                                  1136 10-18-
             intersection with Plum Street                                                                                     1988
             Between the northerly boundary line of Collinsville Avenue and the    West                                  684  6-30-
             southerly boundary line of Edwardsville Road                                                                      1953
             From 650 feet south of 6th Street to 720 feet north of 6th Street     Both                                  1013 9-14-
                                                                                                                               1982
             North of Illinois 203; From Edwardsville Road to a point 125 feet                                                 6-8-
             north of the centerline of Edwardsville Road, the point being the     East                                  1009 1982
             south side of the first entrance north of Edwardsville Road
McCasland    From its intersection with Farish Street to a point 380 feet east     Either                                1198 9-3-
Avenue                                                                                                                         1991
McNair       From its joining with Edwardsville Road, a distance of 25 feet        South                                 833  1-20-
Avenue                                                                                                                         1970
             From its intersection with Illinois Route 203 to its intersection     North                                       12-19-
Ohio Street  with Madison Road                                                     or                                    1277 1995
                                                                                   south
Roosevelt    From its intersection with Park Road north to its end                        Designated “tow away zone”  1425 5-19-
Road                                                                                                                           1998
             From the southern corporate limits of the city to 10th Street         Either                                1053 10-22-
                                                                                                                               1984
             Between the northerly boundary line of 2nd Street and the southerly   West                                  495  7-13-
             boundary line of 10th Street                                                                                      1937
             From 10th Street to the northern corporate limits of the city         West                                  1053 10-22-
                                                                                                                               1984
State Street                                                                              Parking for an hour at a time
                                                                                          during the hours of 7 a.m. and       11-18-
             From 2nd Street to 5th Street                                                5 p.m.; parking is prohibited   677  1952
                                                                                          from the hours of 2 a.m. and 6
                                                                                          a.m.
                                                                                  West                                  807  4-30-
                                                                                                                               1968
             From Edwardsville Road northerly to Meridian Avenue                   East                                  1146 5-2-
Staunton                                                                                                                       1989
Street       From its intersection with Edwardsville Road to a point 50 feet north West                                  1207 4-28-
                                                                                                                               1992
Webster                                                                                  Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
Street                                                                                    5 p.m.                               1966
West                                                                                      Between the hours of 7 a.m. and      11-1-
Washington                                                                               5 p.m.                          790  1966
Street
West 2nd                                                                                 Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
Street                                                                                    5 p.m.                               1966
West 3rd                                                                                 Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
Street                                                                                    5 p.m.                               1966
                                                                                         Between the hours of 7 a.m. and 790  11-1-
West Madison                                                                              5 p.m.                               1966
Street                                                                            Both                                  758  9-4-
                                                                                                                               1962
 
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE III.  LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   The following locations are designated loading and unloading areas.
 
Location        Ord. No. Date Passed
1622 3rd Street 1234     3-1-1994
 
   TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE OR WRECKED VEHICLES
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
93.   FIRE CODE; PREVENTION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   ANIMALS
      
98.   NOISE CONTROL
CHAPTER 90:  ABANDONED, INOPERABLE OR WRECKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Declaration of nuisance
   
90.03   Abandonment of vehicles
   
90.04   Leaving vehicles on street
   
90.05   Disposition of vehicles
   
90.06   Exceptions
   
90.07   Impoundment
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Exterior storage of non-operating vehicles, see §
95.47
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  A machine propelled by power other than human power designed
to travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies, off-
road vehicles and wagons.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any real property within the city which is not
a street or highway, whether owned by a government entity or a person, as
defined above.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public
for the purpose of vehicular travel, including alley ways.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001)
§ 90.02  DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   It is hereby declared that any and all abandoned, discarded, inoperable or
wrecked motor vehicles, whether on public or private property and in view of
the general public within the city are nuisances.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001)
§ 90.03  ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the city for a time and under
circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04  LEAVING VEHICLES ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any abandoned, discarded, inoperable, wrecked,
dismantled or junked motor vehicle on any street or highway within the city. 
No repair work will be performed on any motor vehicle while on any street or
highway within the city.  This section shall not apply to the driver of any
motor vehicle which is disabled, while on a street or highway within the city,
to an extent that it is impossible to avoid leaving the disable vehicle.  The
motor vehicle is to be removed from the mainly traveled portion of a street or
highway and to the curb of the street or highway and, at which place, necessary
emergency repairs may be performed on the motor vehicle.  Disabled motor
vehicles shall be removed from the curb of the street or highway within 24
hours from the time that the vehicle became disabled.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05  DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any abandoned,
discarded, inoperable, wrecked, partially dismantled or junked motor vehicle to
remain on the property longer than seven days following the issuance of a
municipal notice to remove same.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is
left within a building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over 25
years of age, to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged
in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles or to a motor vehicle located in a
storage place or depository licensed and maintained for the purposes within the
city.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001)
§ 90.07  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Vehicle in public place. The Chief of Police or any member of his or
her Department designated by him or her is hereby authorized to remove or have
removed any vehicle left at any public or private place with the city, which
reasonably appears to be a violation of this chapter or appears to be lost,
stolen or unclaimed.  The motor vehicles shall be impounded, towed and hauled
away until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, §§ 4-203 et seq.
   (B)   Vehicle in private place. Any person, firm or corporation issued a
seven-day municipal notice to remove a vehicle located in a private place under
§
90.05, shall have 14 days from the issuance of said notice to request a hearing
to determine liability under
Chapter 36 of this code. If no hearing is requested within 14 days or if a
hearing is requested, held and a final determination of liability is made under
Chapter 36, The Chief of Police or any member of his or her department
designated by him or her is authorized to remove or have removed any such
vehicle. The motor vehicles shall be impounded, towed and hauled away until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-
203 et seq.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001; Am. Ord. 1606, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not
exceeding $750.  Each day a violation is continued  or is permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as set forth
herein. A violator of this chapter shall also be responsible for the costs of
impoundment, towing and hauling away.
(Ord. 1546, passed 1-30-2001)
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Obstructions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Obstructing sidewalks
   
91.03   Obstructing streets
   
91.04   Responsibility of parent
   
91.05   Presumption
   
91.06   Enforcement procedures
Excavations and Openings
   
91.20   Permit required
   
91.21   Application
   
91.22   Issuance of permits
   
91.23   Fees and deposits
   
91.24   Barricades and lights
   
91.25   Sidewalks
   
91.26   Time limit
   
91.27   Restoring surface
   
91.28   Supervision
   
91.29   Exemptions
   
91.30   Utility excavations; notice required; penalty for violations
   
91.31   Excavation bond
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Department of Streets, see §§
32.35 through
32.45
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK.  To interfere with unobstructed travel by any means, including, but
not limited to standing on the part of the sidewalk or street that is fit for
travel or placing any object or vehicle whatsoever on the sidewalk or street.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Illinois.
   GUARDIAN.  A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a juvenile or minor or a public or private agency with whom a juvenile or minor
has been placed by a court.
   IN LOCO PARENTIS.  A person who stands in place of or acts instead of a
parent or is charged, factitiously, with a parent’s rights, duties and
responsibilities.
   JUVENILE.  Any person under the age of 18 or, in equivalence phrasing, any
person 17 years of age or less.
   LOCO PARENTIS.  See IN LOCO PARENTIS.
   MINOR.  See JUVENILE.
   OBSTRUCT.  To hinder, prevent, check, stop, block, retard, make difficult
and slow, be or come in the way of, congregate on, interpose obstacles to,
render impassable, fill with barriers or impediments or interpose impediments
in the way of free and open use or intended use of any sidewalk or street in
the city or which prevent the public from going where it has a right to go or
where it finds it is necessary to go in its travels by use of any sidewalk or
street in the city.
   PARENT.  A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, step-parent or
surrogate parent of another person.
   PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.  Evidence that, in the judgment of the law, is
sufficient to establish a given fact, or the group or chain of facts,
constituting the city’s claim and, if not rebutted or contradicted, is
sufficient to sustain a judgment in favor of the issue(s) which it supports.
   PUBLIC.  Relating to or affecting the whole people of the city, state or
whole community and not limited or restricted to any particular class of the
community.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to streets, highways, vacant
lots, common areas of schools, parks, playgrounds, parking lots, public
buildings, public housing developments, hospitals, apartment houses, motels,
hotels, office buildings, transport facilities, shops, shopping centers or
plazas, places of amusement or entertainment and similar areas that are open to
the use of the public.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for pedestrian
travel in the city, including any grass plots or other grounds found within the
portion of a street, or the walkways for pedestrian travel in a public place.
   STATE.  The State of Illinois.
   STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel in the city.  The term STREET applies irrespective of what
it is called or formerly named, whether alley, avenue, court, road or
otherwise.  The term STREET shall also include driveways for vehicular travel
in a public place.
   SURROGATE PARENT.  A person other than a parent who stands in loco parentis
to the child by virtue of his or her voluntary assumption of parental rights
and responsibilities or is appointed by a juvenile court as a child’s advocate
in the educational decision-making process in place of the child’s natural
parents or guardian.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any sidewalk or street
for purposes of travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street.
(Ord. 1317, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 91.02  OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or entity to obstruct
pedestrian traffic on any sidewalk in the city, except as otherwise provided by
city ordinances or state law.
(Ord. 1317, passed 7-16-1996) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03  OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or entity to
obstruct vehicular traffic on any street in the city, except as otherwise
provided by city ordinances or state law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or entity to
stand, sit or remain on or within six feet of the traveled portion of any
sidewalk or street and solicit or attempt to solicit employment, business or
contributions from any pedestrian or any occupant of any vehicle on any
sidewalk or street, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided by city
ordinances or state law.
(Ord. 1317, passed 7-16-1996) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of any juvenile or minor to
allow or permit the juvenile or minor to obstruct a sidewalk or a street in the
city in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The fact that, prior to the present offense by the juvenile or
minor, a parent of the juvenile or minor was informed by a police officer of
the city of a separate violation of this subchapter by a juvenile or minor
which occurred within one year next preceding the present offense, shall be
prima facie evidence that the parent allowed or permitted the present
violation.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent of
a juvenile or minor responsible.  It shall be no defense that a parent of a
juvenile or minor was indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts
of the juvenile or minor.
(Ord. 1317, passed 7-16-1996) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05  PRESUMPTION.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity who obstructs any sidewalk or street
in violation of the terms and provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed
prima facie responsible for the violation so evidenced and subject to the
penalty provided therefore.
(Ord. 1317, passed 7-16-1996)
§ 91.06  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a juvenile or minor is
obstructing a sidewalk or street in violation of this subchapter and before
taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, the police officer shall
notify the juvenile or minor that he or she is in violation of this subchapter
and shall require the juvenile or minor to provide his or her name, age,
address, telephone number, how to contact his or her parent or guardian and the
juvenile’s or minor’s reason for obstructing the sidewalk or street.
   (B)   In determining the age of the juvenile or minor, in the absence of
convincing evidence, a police officer shall use his or her best judgment in
determining age.
   (C)   Every police officer while on duty is hereby authorized to detain any
juvenile or minor violating this subchapter, but shall, immediately upon taking
custody of the juvenile or minor, notify the parent of the juvenile or minor. 
The person so notified shall, as soon as reasonably possible thereafter, report
to the Police Department for the purpose of taking custody of the juvenile or
minor and shall sign a document indicating that the parent is taking custody of
the juvenile or minor.  If the parent cannot be notified or if no response is
received from the parent in a reasonable period of time, the police officer
shall take whatever action is deemed necessary in the best interest of the
juvenile or minor.
   (D)   In lieu of issuing a citation or making an arrest of a juvenile or
minor for violation of any provision of this subchapter, a police officer may
contact a parent of the juvenile or minor and request that the parent either
take the juvenile or minor home or make arrangements for a person over 18 years
of age to take the juvenile or minor home.
   (E)   In the case of a violation by a juvenile or minor, the police officer
shall, by certified mail or direct service, send or deliver to a parent written
notice of the violation with a warning that any subsequent violation within one
year of the date of the violation will result in full enforcement of this
subchapter, including enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable
penalties.
   (F)   If it shall appear that any juvenile or minor taken into custody for a
violation of this subchapter is growing up in mendicancy or vagrancy, or is
incorrigible, for lack of a proper parental care or has no home, proper
proceedings shall be taken by the Police Department to have the juvenile or
minor placed in the care of a state institution as provided by law.
(Ord. 1317, passed 7-16-1996)
EXCAVATIONS AND OPENINGS
§ 91.20  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having obtained a permit, as is herein required, or without complying
with the provisions of this subchapter or in violation of or variance from the
terms of any permit.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.21  APPLICATION.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Office of the Building
Inspector and shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel,
the size thereof, the purpose therefor and the  person, firm or corporation for
whom or which the work is being done and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be
done.  A separate application shall be filed for each and every opening or
excavation or tunnel to be made, and each time the Joint Utility Locating
Information for Excavators (J.U.L.I.E.) system is used for locating underground
facilities prior to excavation. Each such application shall be accompanied by
the appropriate fees as required by this section. In the event that multiple
J.U.L.I.E. locates are requested under a single permit, the permit holder shall
be billed for and shall be responsible for paying a second and subsequent
application fees as though an application were actually made to the Office of
Building Inspector, and failure to remit the required amount within 30 days
following the J.U.L.I.E. locate request shall be considered a violation of this
section.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.22  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Building Inspector, on application therefor, as provided herein, shall
issue permits in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.  In the
event that it becomes necessary to make any opening or excavation in any
street, alley or any other public place in city in order to protect the safety
or property of the public in general without first obtaining a permit therefor,
then and in that event only, the person or persons making the excavation or
opening shall, at the earliest practical moment after the excavation or opening
is made, obtain the permit provided for herein.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.23  FEES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The fee for the permits shall be $20.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Office of the Building Inspector a bond in the sum of $500
to insure the proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if
any.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.24  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person, firm or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street, alley or sidewalk or any public place shall keep the same adequately
guarded by barricades and lights to protect persons and property from injury.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.25  SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.26  TIME LIMIT.
   Every application for a permit shall state the length of time it is
estimated will elapse from the commencement of the work until the complete
restoration of the surface.  It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this
time limitation unless permission for an extension of time is granted by the
Office of the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.27  RESTORING SURFACE.
   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or under
any public street, alley or public place in the city shall restore the surface
thereof and the subsurface thereof according to the following standards and
specifications:
   (A)   Excavated subgrade beneath the pavement or traveled surface shall be
replaced with river sand firmly tamped into place, in layers not greater than
six inches to a depth of six inches over the top of the pipe conduit or bottom
of the excavation, whichever is higher. The remainder of the excavation shall
be filled with grade eight stone and surfaced as provided hereinafter.
   (B)   Any excavation outside the limits of the pavement shall be replaced by
firmly tamping of the material into place in layers not greater than six
inches.
   (C)   Where sand or unstable material is encountered which will not provide
a shoulder, the new base of the pavement to be replaced must be extended under
the old base for a distance of at least eight inches all around the excavation.
   (D)   If the street to be excavated is a state highway or city arterial
street, the State Division of Highway Specifications shall govern.
   (E)   The filling for any excavation shall be sound, imperishable material,
free from cinders or organic matter.  It shall be deposited and thoroughly
tamped with a tamper weighing not less than 25 pounds and having a face of not
more than eight inches.
   (F)   Concrete pavements and concrete base or other pavements shall be as
thick as the adjoining pavement or base, but in no case shall the pavement or
base be less than ten inches thick.  The concrete pavement or concrete base
shall be full traffic lane width and extend at least two feet beyond the edge
of the excavation in all directions.
   (G)   Concrete mix will be of the same standard as the State Division of
Highways Class “X” concrete, or if desired, the same as “rich-mix.”
   (H)   All concrete shall be reinforced both transversely and longitudinally
by embedding steel rods two inches above the bottom of the concrete in the
event the original concrete pavement contained reinforcing.  Reinforcing bars
shall be  inch in diameter and transverse bars shall be spaced eight inches
apart and longitudinal bars six inches apart.  In the event that there was no
reinforcing in the original concrete pavement, no reinforcing shall be required
in the patchwork.
   (I)   The surface of all concrete shall be kept moist until it has set
sufficiently hard to walk upon, after which it shall be cured by being covered
with calcium chloride evenly applied at a rate of not less than two pounds, nor
more than two and one-quarter pounds per square yard.
   (J)   The surface of all pavement shall be finished flush with the surface
of the adjoining pavement, and when tested with a ten-foot straight-edge shall
show no high spots or depressions of more than one- eighth of an inch.  In the
case of asphaltic surfaces, the ten-inch concrete base shall be brought to a
uniform surface at the proper grade to receive a three-inch course of L-LL
asphalt.
   (K)   All base shall be completed at least ten days before the surface
course is replaced.
   (L)   When it is impossible to replace the asphaltic wearing course in the
time specified in the permit for excavation, the concrete base shall be
replaced as herein specified, and concrete laid in lieu of the asphaltic
wearing course, until the time as the asphaltic wearing course is available,
and then the concrete wearing surface shall be removed and replaced with
asphalt.
   (M)   All repaired areas shall be closed to traffic for two weeks or longer
unless otherwise directed by the Superintendent of Streets.
   (N)   Dirt streets or dirt and oil streets shall be repaired by refilling
the excavation as provided in this chapter and topping with a two inch layer of
asphalt and sealing.
   (O)   All excavations in asphaltic pavements or dirt and oil streets shall
be sealed with suitable bituminous or other sealer approved by the city
engineer before applying the asphaltic surface or finished oil surface.
   (P)   Where excavation is made in a concrete driveway apron, sidewalk,
walkway or curb and gutter, the existing pavement material shall be completely
removed with clean, neatly sawed lines and the surface restored to the nearest
existing construction or expansion joint. Expansion joint material shall be
used at all points where new concrete joins with the existing. Strip patching
of the above items will not be permitted.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.28  SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall, from time to time, inspect all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley or
other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter.  Notice shall be given to him or her at least two hours before
the work of refilling any excavation or tunnel commences.  All material used
and any work performed shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent
of Streets and the City Engineer.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.29  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter relative to securing permits shall not
apply to officers or employees of the city engaged in doing work for the city;
nor to persons or corporations doing work for the city under contract; nor to
agencies of the state.
(Ord. 754, passed 11-14-1961; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.30  UTILITY EXCAVATIONS; NOTICE REQUIRED; PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All utilities operating under franchise agreements with the city shall
be required to present notice in writing of such proposed excavation to the
corporate authorities through the Office of the Building Inspector 30 days in
advance of such proposed excavation.
   (B)   The above regulation shall not apply to emergency conditions, but
written notice of such excavation under emergency conditions shall be furnished
to the corporate authorities through the Office of the Building Inspector
within 10 days of such excavation.
   (C)   All franchised utilities shall also be required to pay $20 to the
Office of the Building Inspector each and every time a locate request is made
through the J.U.L.I.E. system. Failure to pay this fee either prior to the time
of the locate request or within 30 days after the locate request, or upon being
billed for such fee, shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31  EXCAVATION BOND.
   (A)   It is unlawful to commence work on any excavation, or on any
construction work in the city involving driving or hauling machinery, trucks or
equipment over any parkway or sidewalk area or involving excavating or leaving
of any parkway or sidewalk area, unless the person, firm or corporation doing
such work first has filed with the City Clerk a bond with corporate surety,
conditioned to indemnify the city for any damage done to any city property,
including any curb, pavement, cable, pipe, shutoff box or other equipment in
the course of such work.
   (B)   Where the work contemplated includes the making of any excavation for
any structure or foundation, the bond shall also be conditioned that the
building or structure contemplated shall be completed within one year from the
date of commencement of work or the excavation refilled and the surface
restored to its original condition.
   (C)   Such bond shall be in the principal amount of $50,000 payable to the
city in the event of any breach of such bond.
(Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
91.20 through
91.31 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more that $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1598, passed 12-17-2002)
CHAPTER 92:  TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
92.01   Permit required for planting; removal
   
92.02   Obstructions prohibited
   
92.03   Trimming and pruning
   
92.04   Unauthorized removal
   
92.05   Painting, posting and the like
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PLANTING; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to plant,
cultivate or maintain any tree, shrub, bush or vine in, on, along or upon any
public street, alley, parkway or other public place in the city, upon any
property owned by the city or over which the city exercises control and
supervision, without first having obtained a written permit therefor from the
Superintendent of Streets.
   (B)   (1)   The location of any tree, shrub, bush or vine shall be subject
to the approval of the Superintendent of Streets.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Streets shall have the power and authority to
remove or cause to be removed any tree, or the branches thereof, shrub, bush or
vine that in any way obstructs or interferes with the proper maintenance of the
streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public places in the city, or that
interferes with or obstructs any traffic sign, signal or the reflection of any
street lamp.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-11-1956) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.02  OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to plant, cultivate
or maintain any tree, shrub, bush, vine or vegetable growth in, on, upon or
along any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or other public place or upon any
private property adjacent thereto, within the city, in a manner that the same
obscures or obstructs any traffic sign, signal or the reflection of any street
lamp or in a manner that the same impedes, obstructs or otherwise interferes
with traffic or travel upon the street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or other
public place.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-11-1956) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03  TRIMMING AND PRUNING.
   All trees planted, cultivated or maintained in, upon or along any street,
sidewalk, alley, parkway or other public place or upon private property
adjacent thereto shall have the boughs and branches thereof trimmed and pruned
at least ten feet above the ground level directly beneath the branches of the
trees, so as to allow safe, convenient and unobstructed passage of all persons
and vehicles traveling along the sidewalk or in the street, and in case the
owner or occupant of private property upon which the tree shall stand, shall
refuse or neglect to trim the same in accordance with the provisions of this
section within 24 hours after notice so to do by the Superintendent of Streets,
the tree shall be pruned and trimmed under the direction of the Superintendent
of Streets, and the costs thereof shall be recovered from the owner in the name
of the city.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-11-1956)
§ 92.04  UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall cut, fell, injure or remove any tree standing in or
upon any street, avenue, sidewalk, parkway, park or public ground within the
city unless by the authority and direction of the Superintendent of Streets,
nor shall any person, firm or corporation wilfully or carelessly destroy or
injure any tree or in any manner cause the same to be done.
   (B)   The Superintendent of Streets shall have the power to remove any tree
or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any street,
sidewalk, alley or other public place in the city, so that the obstruction or
danger to traffic or passage may be removed.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-11-1956) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.05  PAINTING, POSTING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, except a public
officer or employee in the performance of a public duty, to paste, paint,
print, nail, tack or otherwise fasten any card, banner, handbill, sign, poster
or notice of any kind, or cause the same to be done upon any tree or shrub upon
any public street, highway, parkway or other public property within the city,
except as may be required by the ordinances of the city or the laws of the
state or of the United States.
(Ord. 708, passed 12-11-1956) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE CODE; PREVENTION
Section
Fire Code; Limits
   
93.01   Adoption; copies on file
   
93.02   Modifications and revisions
   
93.03   Establishment of fire limits
Life Safety Code
   
93.15   Adoption; copies on file
   
93.16   Modifications to the Life Safety Code
   
93.17   Inspections, duties, rules and enforcement
FIRE CODE; LIMITS
§ 93.01  ADOPTION; COPIES ON FILE.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the “International Fire Code,”
including Appendix Chapters A through E, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the code of the city for regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and
devices and from conditions hazardous of life or property in the occupancy of
buildings and premises in the city and providing for the issuance of permits
for hazardous uses or operations.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of
the International Fire Code, 2000 edition, published by the International Code
Council, on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1534, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 93.02  MODIFICATIONS AND REVISIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1.  Insert, in this section, the phrase, “...the City of
Madison, Illinois,...” in place of “...(NAME OF JURISDICTION)...” so that this
section now reads as follows:
“101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the City of
Madison, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as ‘this code.’”
   (B)   Section 109.3.  Replace the language, in this section, with the
following:
“109.3 Violation penalties.  Any person who shall violate a provision of this
code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of an Ordinance
violation, punishable by a fine of not more than $750 for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.”
   (C)   Section 111.4.  Insert, in this section, the phrase “...Two Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($250)...” in place of the first “...(AMOUNT)...” and the phrase
“...Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750)...”
in place of the second “...(AMOUNT)...” so that the section now reads as
follows:
“111.4 Failure to comply.  Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less that Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250) or more than Seven Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($750).”
(Ord. 1534, passed 9-12-2000)
§ 93.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LIMITS.
   The limits referred to in certain sections of the 2000 International Fire
Code are hereby established as follows.
   (A)   Section 3204.1.1.  Insert, into this section, the limits in which the
storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited,
so that the section now reads:
“3204.3.1.1 Location.  Stationary containers shall be located in accordance
with Section 3203.6.  Containers of cryogenic fluids shall not be located
within diked areas containing other hazardous materials.
Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers outside of
buildings is prohibited within the limits established by law in the adopting
ordinance as the limits of districts in which such storage is prohibited.”
   (B)   Section 3404.2.9.5.2.  Insert, into this section, the limits in which
the storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of
buildings is prohibited:
“3404.2.9.5.2 Separation between adjacent stable or unstable liquid tanks.  The
separation between tanks containing stable liquids shall be in accordance with
NFPA 30: Table 2-7.  Where tanks are in a diked area containing Class I or II
liquids, or in the drainage path of Class I or II liquids, and are compacted in
three or more rows or in an irregular pattern, the code official is authorized
to require greater separation than specified in NPA 30: Table 2-7 or other
means to make tanks in the interior of the pattern accessible for fire-fighting
purposes.
Exception:  Tanks used for storing Class IIIB liquids are allowed to be spaced
3 feet (914 mm) apart unless within a diked area or drainage path for a tank
storing Class I or II liquids.
The separation between tanks containing unstable liquids shall not be less than
one-half the sum of their diameters.”
   (C)   Section 3406.2.4.4.  Insert, into this section, the limits in which
the storage of Class I and Class II liquids in above-ground tanks is
prohibited:
“3406.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited.  The storage of
Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited within the limits
established by law in the adopting ordinance as the limits of districts in
which such storage is prohibited.”
   (D)   Section 3804.2.  Insert, into this section, the limits in which the
storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily
populated or congested areas:
“3804.2 Maximum capacity within established limits.  Within the limits
established by law in the adopting ordinance restricting the storage of
liquefied petroleum gas for the protection of heavily populated or congested
areas, the aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not exceed a water
capacity of 2,000 gallons (7570 L).
Exception: In particular installations, this capacity limit shall be determined
by the code official, after consideration of special features such as
topographical conditions, nature of occupancy, and proximity to buildings,
capacity of proposed containers, degree of fire protection to be provided, and
capabilities of the local fire department.”
(Ord. 1534, passed 9-12-2000)
LIFE SAFETY CODE
§ 93.15  ADOPTION; COPIES ON FILE.
   (A)   Certain documents, three copies of which are on file in the Office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as “NFPA 101, Life Safety Code
(2015)” (adopted in its entirety, subject to the OSFM modifications in
subsection (c)), “NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2000)” (only to the extent cited
in subsections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(6)), “NFPA 101 A, Guide on Alternative
Approaches to Life Safety (2016),” “NFPA 101 A, Guide on Alternative Approaches
to Life Safety (2001)” (only to the extent cited in subsection (c)(1)), “NFPA
914, Code for Fire Protection of Historic Structures (2010)” (only to the
extent cited in Section 100.8), “NFPA 80, Standard for Fire Doors and Other
Opening Protectives (2013)” (only to the extent cited in subsection (c)(10)
(I)), “NFPA 1, Fire Code (2015)” (only to the extent cited in subsection (c)
(11)) as published by the National Fire Protection Association (hereabove and
hereinafter “NFPA”), are hereby adopted as the code of the City of Madison,
Illinois in addition to and/or independent of the “International Fire Code” as
adopted by the city in Ordinance 1534 on or about September 12, 2000, for
regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and
explosion hazards, and from the conditions hazardous to life or property in the
occupancy of buildings and premises in the city and providing for the issuance
of permits for hazardous uses and operations, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the referred to in this
section herein are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this subchapter. Once this subchapter is adopted, the City of
Madison fire prevention and life safety standards shall be equivalent or higher
standards to the those adopted by the Office of the State Fire Marshal as
implemented by 43 Ill. Reg. 10008, effective January 1, 2020 and 425 ILCS 25/
3 et seq. effective January 1, 2020.
   (B)   Where there is conflict between a general requirement and a specific
requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable. Where there is a
conflict between a corresponding requirement in the International Fire Code and
this subchapter (hereinafter referred to as the “Life Safety Code”), the most
strict application shall apply.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts the codes and standards of Title 41: Fire
Protection, Chapter 1: Office of the State Fire Marshal, Part 100, Fire
Prevention and Safety, Section 100.7 Adoption of OTPA 101, Codes and Standards
of the Illinois Administrative Code as follows:
      (1)   The city hereby adopts the nationally recognized standards, codes
and guides listed as incorporated standards in subsection (b), subject to the
Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshal (hereinafter “OSFM”) modifications
listed in subsection (c) below. Standards incorporated by reference in this
Part do not include any later editions or amendments, unless explicitly stated
otherwise in this Part.
      (2)   Incorporated standards.
         (a)   NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015) (adopted in its entirety,
subject to the OSFM modifications in subsection (c));
         (b)   NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2000) (only to the extent cited in
subsections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(6));
         (c)   NFPA 101A, Guide on Alternative Approaches to Life Safety
(2016);
         (d)   NFPA 101A, Guide on Alternative Approaches to Life Safety (2001)
(only to the extent cited in subsection (c)(1));
         (e)   NFPA 914, Code for Fire Protection of Historic Structures (2010)
(only to the extent cited in Section 100.8);
         (f)   NFPA 80, Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening Protectives
(2013) (only to the extent cited in subsection (c)(10)(I));
         (g)   NFPA 1, Fire Code (2015) (only to the extent cited in subsection
(c)(11)).
(Ord. 1845, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 93.16  MODIFICATIONS TO THE LIFE SAFETY CODE.
   (A)   High rise buildings. All existing high rise buildings, as defined in
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (all applicable Sections), shall comply with the
sprinkler requirements prescribed in the 2000 edition of NFPA 101, Life Safety
Code, effective January 1, 2002. Use of a Fire Safety Evaluation System (FSES)
for compliance with this section must adhere to NFPA 101A, Guide on Alternative
Approaches to Life Safety (2001).
   (B)   Assembly occupancies. All existing assembly occupancies, as defined in
NFPA 101 (Chapter 13), shall comply with the sprinkler requirements prescribed
in the 2000 edition of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, effective January 1, 2002.
   (C)   Day care occupancies.
      (1)   Child care facilities. (See the Child Care Act of 1969 (225 ILCS
101)).
         (a)   For purposes of determining the occupancy subclassification of a
day care facility, the current version of the following Department of Children
and Family Services rules will be applied: 89 Ill. Adm. Code 406, 407 and 408.
This is applicable to licensed and non-licensed facilities.
         (b)   Child-to-staff ratios in day care facilities shall comply with
89 Ill. Adm. Code 406, 407 and 408 and with the Child Care Act of 1969 (225
ILCS 10). Any conflicting provisions of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code are
inapplicable to day care facilities.
         (c)   In day care homes in which clients occupy a level below the
level of exit discharge, means of escape shall be provided in accordance with
either the applicable requirements of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015) or with
one of the following:
            1.   If a means of escape discharging directly to the outside at
the basement level is not provided, requiring occupants to traverse another
level of the home to exit, the path of escape through the level of exit
discharge shall be separated from the remainder of that level of the home by
construction providing a minimum fire resistance rating of one hour; or
            2.   The home shall be equipped with smoke alarms permanently
powered by the building’s electrical system and wired so that the actuation of
one smoke alarm will actuate all the smoke alarms in the dwelling. At least one
such smoke alarm shall be located on each level of the occupancy (excluding
unoccupied attics and crawl spaces), and the path of escape through the level
of exit discharge (from the basement door to the exterior door of the home)
must be protected by automatic fire sprinklers. Listed residential sprinklers
shall be used and the installation shall be made in accordance with 41 Ill.
Adm. Code 109 and codes and standards referenced in that part.
      (2)   Windows for rescue in existing day care centers. Windows for rescue
required by NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015), Section 17.2.11.1, are not
required for existing day care centers.
      (3)   Day care homes. New and existing day care homes shall be defined as
new and existing based on the date the original home construction was completed
and available for residency.
      (4)   Smoke detection in corridors outside day care homes located within
a building of another occupancy. A smoke alarm system installed as prescribed
in this subsection (c)(3)(D) shall be permitted to be used in day care homes
located within a building of another occupancy in lieu of a smoke detection
system connected to a fire alarm system as required by NFPA 101, Life Safety
Code (2015), Sections 16.6.3.4.2 and 17.6.3.4.2:
         (a)   Smoke alarms connected to the building’s electric shall be
installed in accordance with proper coverage standards in the corridor serving
the day care home.
         (b)   Smoke alarms connected to the building’s electric shall be
installed in accordance with proper coverage standards within the day care home
(see NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015), Section 16.6.3.4 for new day care homes
and Section 17.6.3.4 for existing day care homes) as well as within 15 feet of
all sleeping rooms. NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015), Section 17.6.3.4.4 shall
not be permitted to be used.
         (c)   All smoke alarms regulated by subsections (c)(3)(D)(i) and (ii)
will be arranged so that operation of any smoke alarm shall cause all smoke
alarms within the corridor and the day care home to sound.
   (D)   One- and two-family dwellings. NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015),
Chapter 24 (One- and Two-Family Dwellings) is adopted as recommended guidelines
only, except when referenced as being required for compliance with this Part.
   (E)   Communicating spaces. Corridors shall not be required to be separated
from communicating spaces as required in NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015),
Section 8.6.6, in new or existing occupancies, provided all of the following
criteria are met:
      (1)   The arrangement complies with all other requirements of Section
8.6.6(4), including, if applicable, Section 8.6.6(4)(b);
      (2)   The building is protected throughout by an approved automatic
sprinkler system; and
      (3)   Two means of egress are provided to occupants of the building on
each floor that is served by the communicating opening that do not require the
use of the stairway located within the communicating space, as defined in NFPA
101, Section 8.6.6.
   (F)   Mixed occupancies. All existing mixed occupancies, as defined by NFPA
101, Life Safety Code, shall, at minimum, continue to comply with the
requirements of Section 6.1.14 of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2000), effective
January 1, 2002, but shall also be permitted to comply with the requirements of
Section 6.1.14 of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015).
   (G)   Determination of “story” in occupancies. The criteria for what a
“story level” is, as found in NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015), Sections
16.1.1.8 and 17.1.1.8 are permitted to be used for all occupancies found in
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015).
   (H)   Use of NFPA 101A for apartment building occupancies. NFPA 101A, Guide
on Alternative Approaches to Life Safety (2016), Sections 7.6 and 7.7 may be
used to demonstrate equivalent protection in apartment buildings, regardless of
whether they contain board and care occupancies or house board and care clients
receiving personal care services.
   (I)   Means of egress design to travel to direct exits and travel to windows
for rescue in educational occupancies and day care centers. Travel to exits or
to windows for rescue shall be permitted as follows in educational occupancies
and day care centers:
      (1)   Travel directly from one room through adjoining rooms to reach an
exit without entering a corridor may be permitted as long as the travel
distance does not exceed 150 feet and doors located between the rooms are not
locked or obstructed and other requirements found in NFPA 101, Life Safety Code
(2015) are met.
      (2)   Travel directly from one room through adjoining rooms without
entering a corridor to reach a window for rescue may be permitted as long as
the travel distance does not exceed 75 feet and doors located between the rooms
are not locked or obstructed and other requirements found in NFPA 101, Life
Safety Code (2015) are met.
      (3)   Travel may be considered to be within a single room if two or more
rooms are connected using openings that are at least 60 inches in clear width
without any doors.
   (J)   Door locking to prevent unwanted entry. Occupancies shall be permitted
to provide locking to prevent unwanted entry as long as all of the following
requirements are met:
      (1)   The locking means is approved and complies with NFPA 101, Life
Safety Code (2015);
      (2)   The locking means can be engaged without opening the door;
      (3)   The unlocking and unlatching from the occupied side of the door can
be accomplished without the use of a key or tool;
      (4)   For existing occupancies only, the unlocking and unlatching
requires not more than two releasing operations. For new occupancies, unlocking
and unlatching requires no more than one releasing operation;
      (5)   The unlocking and unlatching means are mounted at a height not
exceeding 48 inches above the finished floor;
      (6)   Locks, if remotely engaged, can be unlocked from the occupied side;
      (7)   The door is capable of being unlocked and opened from outside the
room by staff with the necessary key or other credential;
      (8)   The locking means does not modify the door closer, panic hardware,
or fire exit hardware;
      (9)   Modifications to fire door assemblies, including door hardware,
shall be in accordance with NFPA 80, Standard for Fire Doors and Other Opening
Protectives (2013);
      (10)   The emergency response plan addresses the use of the locking and
unlocking means from within and outside the room;
      (11)   Staff is drilled in the engagement and release of the locking
means, from within and outside the room, as part of the emergency response
plan; and
      (12)   If doors are replaced, the new door shall comply with unlocking
and unlatching that does not require more than one releasing operation.
   (K)   Use of combustible vegetation in buildings. Combustible vegetation
within buildings shall comply with NFPA 1, Fire Code (2015), Section 10.13.
   (L)   Windows for rescue and windows used as a secondary means of escape.
Where windows for rescue are required or where they are used as a secondary
means of escape, the bottom sill of the window shall be not more than 44 inches
above the floor as required by NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015), or a
permanently fixed stair or ramp shall be installed at the window to allow
occupants to be within 44 inches of the bottom window sill when standing atop
the stair or ramp. The stair or ramp shall be at least the width of the window
or a minimum of 36 inches in width, whichever is larger.
   (M)   Size and access to secondary means of escape. If a window is used as a
secondary means of escape as permitted by NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015) and
the size is not in accordance with NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2015), the owner
or operator of the facility using this window as a secondary means of escape
must demonstrate to an on-site representative of OSFM that all occupants (staff
and clients) can escape through the window to the exterior of the facility in
three minutes or less.
(Ord. 1845, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 93.17  INSPECTIONS, DUTIES, RULES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person, being the owner, occupant, or other person interested in
the premises which is so occupied or so situated as to endanger persons or
property, shall permit such building or structure by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause to become
especially liable to fire, or to become liable to cause injury or damage by
collapsing or otherwise. No person, being the owner, occupant, or other person
interested in the premises, shall keep or maintain or allow to be kept or
maintained on such premises, combustible or explosive material or flammable
conditions, which endanger the safety of said buildings or premises.
   (B)   The officers of the city charged with the duty of investigating fires
or conducting fire prevention and life safety inspections shall inspect and
examine at reasonable hours, any premises, and the buildings and other
structures thereon, and if, such dangerous condition or fire hazard is found to
exist contrary to the rules herein referred to, or if a dangerous condition or
fire hazard is found to exist as specified in division (A) above, and the rules
herein referred to are not applicable to such dangerous condition or fire
hazard, shall identify the dangerous condition, and shall so notify the owner,
occupant, or other person interested in the premises. Service of the notice
upon the owner, occupant, or other person interested in the premises shall be
in person, by electric transmission, or by registered or certified mail. If no
corrective action is taken by the owner, occupant, or other person interested
in the premises to remove or remedy the dangerous condition or fire hazard
within a reasonable time, as determined by the city, an order shall be served
upon the owner, occupant, or other person interested in the premises directing
that the dangerous condition be removed or remedied immediately. Service of the
order upon the owner, occupant, or other person interested in the premises
shall be in person, by electronic transmission, or by registered or certified
mail.
   (C)   Appeals and hearings. The owner, occupant, or other person interested
in such premises, within ten days after receiving an order from the Mayor or
City Officer with the duty of investigating fires or conducting fire prevention
and life safety inspections, may appeal the order in writing to the city. The
city shall thereupon conduct a hearing. If the order is sustained or modified,
or if no appeal is made to the city, it shall be the duty of the owner,
occupant, or other person interested in the premises to immediately comply with
such order.
   (D)   Administrative review. When an order to remove or remedy a dangerous
condition or fire hazard has been modified or sustained by the city, the owner,
occupant, or other person interested in the premises against whom the order has
been entered may seek review in the Circuit Court for the Third Judicial
Circuit in Madison County, Illinois.
   (E)   Penalties; concurrent jurisdiction.
      (1)   A willful failure, neglect, or refusal to comply (a) with the order
of the Office of the State Fire Marshal or with an order from the city after it
has become final by reason of failure to prosecute an appeal as provided by
this section, or (b) with the judgment of the circuit court sustaining or
modifying the order is a petty offense, and in the event of a continuance of
such willful failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such order, each day’s
continuance is a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail
to comply with any of the requirements thereof shall be fined not more than
$750, for each and every violation thereof, and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to affect or
repeal any ordinances of the City of Madison having jurisdiction relating to
building inspection, fire limits, fire prevention, or safety standards, but the
jurisdiction of the Office of the State Fire Marshal shall, in such local
authorities having jurisdiction, be concurrent with that of the local
authorities having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1845, passed 3-17-2020)
CHAPTER 94:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Adoption of regulations
§ 94.01  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   The city’s fair housing regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1217, passed 5-25-1993)
CHAPTER 95:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definition
   
95.03   Limitations
   
95.04   Inspections
   
95.05   Abatement; record
   
95.06   Right of entry
   
95.07   Notice to owner
Specific Nuisances
   
95.20   Weeds
   
95.21   Transportation of garbage, waste and the like
   
95.22   Expectoration
   
95.23   Boarding and lodging houses
   
95.24   Bone, fat or glue businesses
   
95.25   Soap factories, candle factories and the like
   
95.26   Unclean drains, garbage boxes and the like
   
95.27   Water in basements
   
95.28   Pools of impure water
   
95.29   Discharge of filth into streets
   
95.30   Impure wells or cisterns
   
95.31   Scraps, junk and other refuse
   
95.32   Garbage, food scraps, litter and the like
   
95.33   Smells from manufacturers
Garbage and Debris
   
95.45   Definitions
   
95.46   Maintenance; responsibility
   
95.47   Exterior storage of non-operating vehicles
   
95.48   Enforcement
   
95.49   Notice
   
95.50   Collection and removal
   
95.51   Cost and expense
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is hereby enacted for the purpose of defining nuisances and for
their abatement and control to the end that the health and welfare of the
citizens of the city of will be protected.
(Ord. 765, passed - -)
§ 95.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.  Every act or thing done, made, permitted, allowed or continued on
any property, public or private, by any person, his or her agent or servant, to
the damage or injury of any of the inhabitants of the city shall be deemed a
NUISANCE unless otherwise provided for herein.
(Ord. 765, passed - -)
§ 95.03  LIMITATIONS.
   Nothing in any ordinance relating to nuisances or prohibiting certain acts
shall be construed as limiting or interfering with the duties and powers of the
city health officers relative to the condemnation and abatement of any matter
which in law constitutes a nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -)
§ 95.04  INSPECTIONS.
   Police officers and any officer, agent or employee of the Health Department
may enter and inspect all buildings and parts of buildings and other premises
for the purpose of examining the sanitary condition thereof and for the
discovery and abatement of nuisances therein.
(Ord. 765, passed - -)
§ 95.05  ABATEMENT; RECORD.
   (A)   No person shall fail to abate a nuisance after a notice by the Health
Department to do so.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as abandoning or limiting
the city’s right to recover the expense incurred in abating any nuisance.
   (C)   When the Health Department has caused a nuisance to be abated, it is
to be aided in so doing by the employees of the City Street Department or the
Health Department may make a contract for the work necessary to abate the
nuisance.  The Health Department shall certify the cost of abating the nuisance
to the City Comptroller who shall make payment thereof.
   (D)   The City Health Department shall keep a record of all of the facts and
circumstances surrounding the abatement of nuisances.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.06  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Any person employed or contracted with for the abatement of a nuisance, as
herein provided for, and any agent or employee of the person shall have the
right of entry for that purpose into and upon any premises.  Any interference
with the entry by any police officer or any agent or employee of the Health
Department for the purpose of inspection or discovery or abatement of any
nuisance shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.07  NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When any agent of the City Health Department ascertains that a
nuisance is in existence, as set forth and defined in this chapter, on any lot,
yard, building or piece of land within the city, he or she will cause a notice
to be directed to the owner or other person in control of the lot, yard,
building or piece of land that a nuisance exists according to the provisions of
this chapter and that the nuisance must be abated and the abatement must be
commenced and completed within the periods of time as hereinafter set forth
after the notice has been served.
   (B)   With respect to nuisances defined in §§
95.24 through
95.26, abatement must commence within 14 days after the notice is served and
completed within 28 days after the notice is served.
   (C)   With respect to nuisances defined in §§
95.20,
95.27 and
95.28, abatement must commence within seven days after the notice is served and
completed within 14 days after the notice is served.
(Ord. 765, passed - -)
SPECIFIC NUISANCES
§ 95.20  WEEDS.
   (A)   Weeds are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPED PROPERTY.  Any property that has been improved by the
installation of a building, home or other physical improvements, including, but
not limited to streets, utilities and the like.
      OBSTRUCTION.  Anything that may impede access of mowing or other
equipment to part or all of a property to keep the property free from weeds. 
An OBSTRUCTION shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Piles or mounds of dirt;
         (b)   Piles or mounds of trash;
         (c)   Piles or mounds of building material or concrete curb cut out;
         (d)   Brush or underbrush; and
         (e)   Natural terrain.
      OWNER.  Any person who is recognized and held responsible by the law as
the owner of property.
      PERSON.  Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, business unit,
society, association or other legal entity, any public or private institution,
the state or any municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state or
the United States of America.
      PERSON IN CHARGE.  The owner, lessee or agent in charge of or any other
person responsible for the property.
      PREMISES.  Property, real estate, developed property, vacant property and
the undeveloped vacant property located within the city.
      PROPERTY.  Real property, real estate and/or premises.
      REAL ESTATE.  Property, real property and/or premises.
      REGULARLY CULTIVATED.  Any plant which is routinely cared for by any
person to foster the plant’s growth.
      UNDEVELOPED VACANT PROPERTY.  Any property one acre or more in size that
has not been improved by the installation of a building, home or other
structural improvements.
      VACANT PROPERTY.  Any property of less than one acre in size that has not
been improved by the installation of a building, home or other structural
improvements.
      WEEDS.
         (a)   Any brush, grass, vegetation, weed or any plant, that is not
regularly cultivated, that exceeds a height of five inches or has reached the
seed bearing stage, whichever occurs first, or is a noxious weed, as defined by
ILCS Ch. 505, Act 100, § 2(5).  Any plant that is not regularly cultivated
which exceeds five inches in height, reaches the seed bearing stage, or is a
noxious weed, as defined by ILCS Ch. 505, Act 100, § 2(5), shall be presumed to
be objectionable, unsanitary and unsightly.
         (b)   WEEDS shall not include plants in a maintained wildflower
garden, vegetable garden or in areas designated by the city as agricultural,
conservation, wildlife or nature areas or zones provided that appropriate
measures shall be taken to eliminate noxious weeds therein, as defined in ILCS
Ch. 505, Act 100, § 2(5).
   (C)   The owner and the person in charge of any property in the city shall
keep or cause to be kept the property free from weeds, except as provided in
divisions (D) and (E) below.
   (D)   The owner and the person in charge of undeveloped vacant property
under two acres shall be required for the public health, safety and welfare to
keep the property within 100 feet from any adjacent premises under different
ownership and any street right-of-way free of weeds, in addition to any area of
the property which is not obstructed as may be determined by the Fire
Department.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (D) above, undeveloped vacant property
consisting of two acres or more, including undeveloped and contiguous lots in
subdivisions which, when combined in area, exceed two acres, shall be
considered agricultural property and be exempt from cutting or mowing, except
as hereinafter provided.  The owner and person in charge of each such
agricultural property, when the property is not under cultivation for
agricultural purposes, shall maintain an area of ten feet from the abutting
property lines and the right-of-way line of public or private streets or alleys
free of weeds.
   (F)   Property within the city which fails to meet the requirements of this
chapter upon its effective date, shall be subject to having work or
improvements performed on the property by the city or its designated agent at
the owner’s expense and by having the expenses assessed on the property as set
forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-7 and in this section.
   (G)   The existence of weeds on property in the city in violation of the
requirements of this section shall be prima facie evidence that the owner and/
or person in charge of the property has refused or neglected to cut the weeds.
   (H)   (1)   As provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-7, the cost of the
cutting of weeds shall be a lien upon the property affected, superior to all
other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens, provided that within 60 days
after the cost and expense is incurred the city or the person performing the
service by authority of the city, in his, her or its own name, files notice of
lien in the office of the Recorder in the county in which the real estate is
located.  The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the property sufficient for identification
thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
      (2)   However, the lien of the city shall not be valid as to any
purchaser whose rights in and to the property have arisen subsequent to the
weed-cutting and prior to the filing of the notice, and the lien of the city
shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lien or
whose rights in and to the real estate prior to the filing of the notice.  Upon
payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in the
property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released at the
owner’s or person’s sole cost by the city or person in whose name the lien has
been filed and the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing the
notice of lien.
      (3)   The cost of the cutting of weeds shall not be lien on the property
affected unless a notice is personally served on or sent by certified mail to
the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property
for the last preceding year.  The notice shall be delivered or sent after the
cutting of weeds on the property.  The notice shall state the substance of this
section and shall identify the property, by common description, and the
location of the weeds to be cut.
   (I)   (1)   In addition to all other remedies and penalties provided by this
section and other ordinances, the City Attorney or his or her designee may
bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction against the owner and/or person
in charge to seek an injunction or other appropriate relief to halt any
violation of this section.
      (2)   The action may include seeking a temporary restraining order or
temporary injunction and other appropriate temporary relief.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to restrict a suit for
damages on behalf of the city or on behalf of any other person or entity.
(Ord. 1366, passed 6-17-1997) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.21  TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE, WASTE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No excrement, filth, garbage or substance of like offensive nature be
conveyed or transported along, on or upon any of the streets, alleys or public
grounds of the city without proper and sufficient protection and regulation to
preserve the public health and necessary sanitation.  No person shall be
permitted to convey or transport along, on or upon any of the streets, alleys
or public grounds of the city and articles of an offensive nature without
permission from the Board of Health.
   (B)   No person shall convey or transport along, on or upon any of the
streets, alleys or public ways in the city any excrement, filth, garbage,
rubbish or anything of a like offensive nature without a permit from the Board
of Health.  The Board of Health may issue permits under the regulations,
provisions and requirements as will properly protect and promote proper
sanitary conditions and preserve the public health.  The Board of Health may
prescribe the form of application for the permit and also the form and
provisions and conditions to be contained in the permit.
   (C)   The permit may be issued by the Board of Health for the length of time
as may, in its judgement, be to the best interest of sanitary conditions and
the public health.  The permit, however, shall not extend beyond the fiscal
year in which the same is issued.  The permit shall be written or printed and
shall be issued by the City Clerk under the seal of the city when so directed
by the Board of Health.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of the permits substantially in the
same manner as the record is kept for licenses issued under the ordinances of
the city.  The applicant for the permit shall pay therefor the sum of $1, which
shall be paid into the City Treasury, the same as other funds of the city.  The
City Clerk shall be entitled to a fee of $.25 for the permit so issued.
(Ord. 227, passed 9-6-1912) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.22  EXPECTORATION.
   (A)   Spitting or expectorating upon any public sidewalk, public door-step,
public stairway or passageway leading to a public place or upon the floor of
any public building, place or way within the city is hereby deemed to be a
nuisance.
   (B)   Any person who shall spit or expectorate upon any public building,
place or way shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined.
(Ord. 181, passed 6-7-1909) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.23  BOARDING AND LODGING HOUSES.
   (A)   (1)   No landlord, proprietor, keeper, manager or clerk of any lodging
house, boarding house, tavern, inn or hotel shall permit any room therein to be
used or occupied for sleeping purposes which does not contain 400 cubic feet of
air space for each person sleeping therein and every room shall contain more
than one bed.
      (2)   The beds shall be so arranged as to leave a passageway of not less
than two feet horizontally on all sides of each bed.  All beds shall be so
arranged that, under each of them, the air shall freely circulate and thereby
have adequate ventilation.
   (B)   The City Council President shall have authority to, from time to time,
cause any lodging house, boarding house, tavern, inn or hotel in the city to be
inspected by an officer as he or she may designate and see to it that the
provisions hereof are duly and properly observed by the landlords, proprietors,
keepers, clerks and managers of each.
(Ord. 146, passed 2-4-1907) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.24  BONE, FAT OR GLUE BUSINESSES.
   The business or any part thereof of bone-crushing, bone-boiling, bone-
grinding, bone-burning, bone- drying, fat-burning, fat-boiling, fat-rendering,
fat-drying, gut-cleaning or the making of glue or the manufacture of
fertilizing material of any kind or description, from any dead animals or parts
thereof, or any boiling of offal, swill, fat or grease of any description which
shall be done or carried on in an offensive, unclean or defective manner in any
building, yard or lot of ground within the limits of the city shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.25  SOAP FACTORIES, CANDLE FACTORIES AND THE LIKE.
   If any owner or occupier of any soap factory, candle factory, oil factory,
glue factory, hemp factory, varnish factory, porkhouse, sausage house, lard
house or place where lead is corroded by manure, shall permit the same to
remain unclean or conduct their business to the annoyance of the citizens of
the city, or any of them, the same shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.26  UNCLEAN DRAINS, GARBAGE BOXES AND THE LIKE.
   Any unclean, stinking, foul, defective or filthy drain, ditch, tank or
gutter, or any leaking, broken slop, garbage or manure boxes, or receptacles of
like character whenever found within the limits of the city, shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.27  WATER IN BASEMENTS.
   Whenever in any cellar or basement part thereof of any house or building
within the limits of the city, there may be found water occasioned by leakage
from defective hydrants water pipes, sewer pipes, cisterns or wells, gutters,
drains, rain spouts or seepage from the surrounding earth, or the walls of any
cellar or basement shall be found to be damp or moist from any of the causes
named in this section, then the water, leakage, seepage or moisture shall be
deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.28  POOLS OF IMPURE WATER.
   Any lot or piece of ground within the limits of the city, on which there is
a pond or pool of unwholesome, impure or offensive water, shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.29  DISCHARGE OF FILTH INTO STREETS.
   Whenever, from any dwelling, store or factory, or any yard or enclosure of
any kind whatsoever within the limits of the city, there is discharged into or
on any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, gutter or any vacant lot, any filthy or
offensive water, smell or liquid waste or refuse of any kind of any offensive
character which is offensive or which is liable to become so, the same shall be
deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.30  IMPURE WELLS OR CISTERNS.
   Any well or cistern on any property within the limits of the city, whenever
a chemical analysis shows that the water of the well or cistern is of an impure
or unwholesome nature, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.31  SCRAPS, JUNK AND OTHER REFUSE.
   Whenever there shall be found in or upon any lot, yard or piece of ground
within the limits of the city any rags, damaged merchandise, wet, broken or
leaking barrels, casks or boxes, junk, rubbish, debris, scraps, wastes or any
materials which are offensive or which tend by decay to become putrid or to
render the atmosphere impure or unwholesome the same shall deemed a nuisance. 
Junk shall include but shall not be limited to junked motor vehicles, motor
vehicle bodies, parts and accessories.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.32  GARBAGE, FOOD SCRAPS, LITTER AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All vegetable wastes, litter, garbage, food scraps, filth or refuse of
any nature, kind or description found in or upon any lot, yard or piece of
ground, private alley or area within the limits of the city, shall be deemed to
be a nuisance.
   (B)   This section, however, shall not apply to vegetable wastes, litter,
garbage, food scraps or refuse contained in garbage cans or litter receptacles.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.33  SMELLS FROM MANUFACTURERS.
   No person shall manufacture or produce any article the manufacture of which
is injurious to the public health or emits any offensive odor to the extent of
creating a nuisance to the adjoining inhabitants.
(Ord. 765, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 95.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE and DEBRIS.
      (1)   Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the premises are located.
      (2)   This includes but is not limited to the keeping or the depositing
on or the scattering over the premises of any of the following:
         (a)   Lumber, junk, trash or debris; and/or
         (b)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 95.46  MAINTENANCE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any garbage or debris thereon, nor shall any person keep or
maintain the premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which the premises are located.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.47  EXTERIOR STORAGE OF NON-OPERATING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person in charge of or in control of premises, whether as
owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, wrecked, junked, discarded or otherwise nonoperating motor vehicle
to remain on the property longer than ten days.
      (2)   No person shall leave any vehicle on any property within the city
for a longer time than ten days.
      (3)   This section shall not apply with regard to any vehicle in an
enclosed building or so located upon the premises as not to be readily visible
from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
   (B)   This subchapter shall further not apply with regard to any vehicle on
the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place, other than in
a residential district, and operated in a lawful manner, when the keeping or
maintenance of the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise or with regard to a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city or any other
public agency or entity.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.48  ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this subchapter may be accomplished by the city in any manner
authorized by law, and, in addition, any person who by reason of another’s
violation of any provision of this subchapter, suffer special damage to himself
or herself different from that suffered by other property owners throughout the
city generally, may bring an action to enjoin or otherwise abate an existing
violation.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 95.49  NOTICE.
   The corporate authorities shall, after a ten-day notice to the owners or
occupiers of premises upon which there is garbage and debris, contrary to this
subchapter, and who shall neglect or refuse to dispose of same shall collect
and remove the garbage and debris from the premises containing same.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 95.50  COLLECTION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The cost of the collection and removal by the city shall be made a
lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrance
except tax liens; provided that within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred, the municipality or person performing the service by authority of the
municipality, in his, her or its own name, files notice of lien in the office
of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the
municipality.
   (C)   However, the lien of the municipality shall not be valid as to any
purchaser whose rights in and to the real estate have arisen subsequent to the
collection and removal of garbage and debris by the municipality and prior to
the filing of the notice and the lien of the municipality shall not be valid as
to any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in and to the
real estate arise prior to the filing of the notice.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 95.51  COST AND EXPENSE.
   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested
in the property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released
by the municipality or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and the
release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.  The
lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgages or
mechanic’s liens.  A suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two
years aft the date of filing notice of lien.
(Ord. 879, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner and/or person in charge of any property violating any
provision of §
95.20 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1366, passed 6-17-1997)
CHAPTER 96:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Regulations
   
96.01   Playground and recreation system
   
96.02   Public library and reading room
   
96.03   Hours open to public
   
96.04   Chouteau Island curfew
Fire Station Recreation Area
   
96.20   Definitions
   
96.21   Prohibited use in Fire Station Recreation Area
   
96.22   Exceptions
   
96.23   Dogs in Fire Station Recreation Area must be leashed
   
96.24   Removal of excreta
   
96.25   Use of playground area and equipment; age restriction and supervision
required
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 34
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 96.01  PLAYGROUND AND RECREATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   There is hereby created a city playground and recreation system.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her
possession, custody or control any alcohol beverages, including beer, of any
kind whatsoever, while on city property used for playgrounds or ball diamonds
at the following locations:
         (a)   The area bounded by 2nd Street, 3rd Street, Highland Avenue and
Alton Avenue;
         (b)   The area bounded by 2nd Street, 3rd Street, Highland Avenue and
McCambridge Avenue;
         (c)   The area bounded by 12th Street, Elizabeth Street, Washington
Avenue and Alton Avenue; and
         (d)   The area bounded by Ferris Street, Caine Drive and the Stephen
Maeras Industrial Park.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Streets is hereby authorized and directed to
erect and post suitable sign on the aforesaid locations.
(Ord. 616, passed 3-30-1948; Am. Ord. 866, passed 6-20-1972) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.02  PUBLIC LIBRARY AND READING ROOM.
   (A)   The Public Library and Reading Room established and maintained by the
city hereby is declared to be and shall be called the “City of Madison Public
Library and Reading Room.”
   (B)   The Public Library and Reading Room shall henceforth be maintained as
such for the use and benefit of the city’s inhabitants.  All acts of the
President and City Council, relative to the establishment and maintenance of
the Public Library and Reading Room, are hereby approved and affirmed.
(Ord. 556, passed 8-11-1942)
§ 96.03  HOURS OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be or remain in or upon any
park, playground, ball diamond, the Fire Station Recreation Area, or other
recreation area within the City of Madison after 8:00 p.m and before 7:00 a.m.
from April 1 through October 31, and after 4:30 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. from
November 1 through March 31.
   (B)   Exceptions. In the following exceptional cases a person in or upon any
park, playground, ball diamond, or other recreation area within the City of
Madison, or the Fire Station Recreation Area, during the times prescribed in
division (A) above shall not be considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When involved in an emergency;
      (2)   When attending an activity or event approved by the City of
Madison.
   (C)   The City of Madison Police Department shall be responsible for opening
and closing and locking and unlocking any gates, fences or other items used to
enclose a recreation area or used to permit or prohibit access to any
recreation area covered by this section.
   (D)   The Parks and Recreation Department or whomever the Mayor designates
is hereby authorized and directed to post appropriate signage as it deems
suitable to notify the public of the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1727, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 1728, passed 8-3-2010)  Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Chouteau Island curfew, see §
96.04
   Curfew in general, see §
130.06
§ 96.04  CHOUTEAU ISLAND CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be on or remain on Chouteau
Island from Dusk until dawn.
   (B)   Exceptions. In the following exceptional cases, a person may be on or
remain on Chouteau Island during the times prescribed in division (A) above and
shall not be considered in violation of this section:
      (1)   When involved in an emergency;
      (2)   When attending an activity or event approved by the City of
Madison;
      (3)   When the person owns property on Chouteau Island;
      (4)   When the person has a Chouteau Island hunting permit or other valid
hunting permit from the Illinois Department of Natural Resources. The person
must comply with all laws, rules, and regulations of his or her permit, of the
Illinois Department of Natural Resources, and of the City of Madison.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to designate an employee of the City of
Madison to post appropriate signage as the City of Madison deems suitable and
necessary to notify the public of the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 1731, passed 9-28-2010)  Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Curfew in general, see §
130.06
FIRE STATION RECREATION AREA
§ 96.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE.  Shall have its ordinary meaning and include tri-cycles.
   EXCRETA.  Waste matter eliminated or separated from an animal.
   FIRE STATION RECREATION AREA.  All city-owned property in the area bounded
by Third Street on the north, Alton Avenue on the west, Second Street on the
south and McCambridge Avenue (Ill. Rt. 203) on the east including, but not
limited to, the walking track, the driveways, parking areas and concrete aprons
around the Fire Station, the children’s playground and recreational equipment
located south of the Fire Station, the ball-diamond’s parking lot and all
sidewalks contained within.
   ROLLER SKATE.  Any shoe or boot mounted wheeled personal transportation
device including traditional 4-wheel tandem in-line designs.
   SIMILAR CONVEYANCES.  Includes any form of wheeled personal transportation
device, powered or unpowered, such as scooters, wagons, and toy vehicles.
   SKATEBOARD.  Any personal transportation device comprised of a narrow board
mounted on a roller skate or similar wheels.
§ 96.21  PROHIBITED USE IN FIRE STATION RECREATION AREA.
   No person shall operate any skateboard, roller skates, bicycle or similar
conveyance within the Fire Station Recreation Area as defined in §
96.20.
§ 96.22  EXCEPTIONS.
    Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of baby and
youth strollers in the area nor shall it be construed to prohibit the use of
wheelchairs or other transportation devices by the disabled.  Furthermore,
nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of the
conveyances defined in §
96.20 as transportation to the Fire Station Recreation Area provided that the
use of the conveyances ceases upon arrival and the device is properly parked or
stored.
§ 96.23  DOGS IN FIRE STATION RECREATION AREA MUST BE LEASHED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in possession or control of a
dog to permit a dog to be present in the Fire Station Recreation Area unless
the dog is on a leash, attached to a collar firmly secured to the dog’s neck
and no leash shall be allowed to extend any longer than eight feet in length.
§ 96.24  REMOVAL OF EXCRETA.
   The owner or person in possession or control of a dog shall be responsible
for the immediate removal and sanitary disposition of any excreta deposited by
his or her dog anywhere in the Fire Station Recreation Area.
§ 96.25  USE OF PLAYGROUND AREA AND EQUIPMENT; AGE RESTRICTION AND SUPERVISION
REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, age 13 or older, to utilize in
any fashion the playground equipment located in the children’s playground south
of the Fire Station.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize in any fashion the
playground equipment located in the children’s playground area south of the
Fire Station without the presence of a supervising adult of 18 years of age or
older and the supervising adult must remain within 25 feet of the perimeter
fence of the play area at all times during which children under his or her
supervision are utilizing the equipment.
Cross-reference:
   Hours Fire Station Recreation Area is open to the public, see §
96.03
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
96.03 or
96.04 shall be subject to a fine not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each
offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
96.21 and
96.22 shall be subject to a fine not greater than $100 or by impounding such
person’s skateboard, roller skates, bicycle or similar conveyance for a period
of up to ten days or by any combination thereof per each offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §§
96.23 through
96.25 shall be subject to a fine not greater than $50 for the first offense,
not greater than $100 for the second offense nor more than $500 for each
offense after the second.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-9-2001; Am. Ord. 1581, passed 6-18-2002; Am. Ord. 1727,
passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 1731, passed 9-28-2010)
CHAPTER 97:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Certain prohibitions
   
97.03   Exceptions
   
97.04   Health Officer; powers
   
97.05   Canine officer
   
97.06   Special permits
Licensing Regulations
   
97.20   Dogs
   
97.21   Cats
   
97.22   Vaccination
   
97.23   Certificate and tag
   
97.24   Duties of owner
   
97.25   Impoundment
Prohibited Activity; Keeping Animals
   
97.35   Injury to property
   
97.36   Manner of keeping
   
97.37   Dogs and cats running at large
   
97.38   Noisy animals
   
97.39   Keeping numerous dogs and cats
   
97.40   Cruelty to animals
   
97.41   Killing or injuring birds
   
97.42   Pigeon control
   
97.43   Bees
   
97.44   Wild or vicious animals
   
97.45   Rabies and animal bites
   
97.46   Keeping animals and birds; general
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote harmonious relationships in the
interaction between humans and animal within the corporate limits of the city
by:
   (A)   Protecting animals from improper use, abuse, neglect, exploitation,
inhumane treatment and health hazards;
   (B)   Delineating the animal owner’s or harborer’s responsibility far the
acts and behavior of his or her animal at all times;
   (C)   Providing security to residents from annoyance, intimidation, injury
and health hazards by animals;
   (D)   Encouraging responsible pet ownership; and
   (E)   Providing standards for any and all persons and agencies, public or
private, engaged in confinement, buying, selling, harboring or dealing in
animals in any manner whatsoever.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.02  CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall keep within the city any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine,
goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys, geese or other livestock, except in areas of
the city that are zoned agricultural in nature.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to livestock brought into the city for the
purpose of being shipped out of the city.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.04  HEALTH OFFICER; POWERS.
   The Health Officer shall have the power to issue an order prohibiting the
keeping of any animal, fish, fowl or bird which is deemed to pose a health
hazard to the general public.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.05  CANINE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      POLICE OFFICER.  Any member of the city’s Police Department sworn and
commissioned to perform police duties, and includes the Chief of Police,
lieutenants, sergeants, patrol persons and police officers serving initial
probationary periods.
   (B)   (1)   All assignments to the position of canine officer shall, upon
acceptance of the assignment by the officer, be conditioned and subject to the
following:  any officer who for any reason fails to complete any training
program or any requirement required by the city and/or the state for
qualification and certification as a canine officer; terminates his or her
appointment as a police officer; or has terminated his or her assignment as
canine officer from the date of his or her assignment and acceptance to three
years after his or her certification by the state that he or she is qualified
under state law to perform the duties of a canine officer in the state,
whichever occurs last, shall reimburse the city for all monies expended by the
city for fees and expenses in connection with his or her assignment, training,
qualification, certification and equipping of that person as a canine officer
pursuant to and in compliance with the laws of the state and ordinances of the
city.
      (2)   Fees and expenses shall include, but not limited to final physical
examination expenses; equipment and uniforms expenses; tuition, books,
supplies, lodging, food, travel and training expenses paid by the city prior to
and in connection with the certification; salary expenses paid by the city
prior to and in connection with the training and/or certification; and any
other expenses necessitated during the period prior to and during the training
and/or certification less the reimbursement, if any, from the state for any of
the fees and expenses.
      (3)   The above-described terms and provisions shall be put generally in
the form of the reimbursement agreement for a canine officer, which is
incorporated by reference herein, and each of the parties shall execute the
same at the time of the assignment.
(Ord. 1255, passed 2-14-1995)
§ 97.06  SPECIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   The keeping of animals, fish, birds or fowls otherwise prohibited by
this chapter may be permitted by applying for a special permit from the City
Council.
   (B)   The permits may be issued to permit circus performances or other
public exhibition or entertainment events.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 97.20  DOGS.
   (A)   Each owner of a dog more than six months of age on January 1 of any
year, or six months of age within the license year, shall annually, or within
30 days from the date the dog becomes six months of age, pay a dog license tax
and obtain a license for each dog from the City Comptroller.  The license year
shall commence on January 1 and end on the following December 31.  The dog
license tax, if paid on or before April 1, shall be $5 for each altered (spayed
or neutered) dog and $10 for each unaltered dog.  An increased fee of $10 per
altered dog license and $20 per unaltered dog license shall be paid by all
persons purchasing dog licenses after April 1 or more than three months after
the dog becomes six months of age.
   (B)   Each applicant for a dog license shall present a valid certificate of
vaccination and proof of alteration, if claimed, before a license is issued.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.21  CATS.
   (A)   Each owner of a cat more than six months of age on January 1 of any
year, or six months of age within the license year, shall annually, or within
30 days from the date the cat becomes six months of age pay a cat license tax
and obtain a license for each cat from the City Comptroller.  The license year
shall commence on January 1 and end on the following December 31.  The cat
license tax, if paid on or before April 1, shall be $5 for each altered (spayed
or neutered) cat and $10 for each unaltered cat.  An increased fee of $10 per
altered cat license and $20 per unaltered cat license shall be paid by all
persons purchasing cat licenses after April 1 or more than three months after
the cat becomes six months of age.
   (B)   Each applicant for a cat license shall present a valid certificate of
vaccination and proof of alteration, if claimed, before being issued a license.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.22  VACCINATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each dog owner to have the dog inoculated with
an avianized anti-rabies vaccine or any similar vaccine by a veterinarian.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each cat owner to have the cat inoculated with
an avianized anti-rabies vaccine or any similar vaccine by a veterinarian every
calendar year.
   (C)   Dogs or cats under six months of age are not required to be
vaccinated.
   (D)   Any dog or cat, for which a veterinarian licensed by the state issues
a certificate to the effect that the proposed inoculation will be harmful,
shall be exempt from the inoculation prescribed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.23  CERTIFICATE AND TAG.
   The certificate and tag for each dog and cat vaccinated shall include the
name and address of the owner of the dog or cat, date of vaccination, tag
number, breed, color, age and sex of dog or cat and the other information as
may be required.  The dog or cat tags shall be numbered and contain the year of
issuance.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.24  DUTIES OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of each owner, after inoculating a dog or cat, to
deliver one copy of the certificate to the Police Department within five days
after inoculation.  The owner shall immediately attach the tag to the collar or
harness of the dog or cat which shall be worn by the dog or cat at all times.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.25  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the penalties hereinafter provided, the Humane
Officer, any police officer of the city, or any person designated by the Chief
of Police shall impound any dog or cat which does not carry the tags required
by this chapter.  The owner may obtain possession of any dog or cat so
impounded or seized by paying:
         (a)   An impounding fee of $25 plus the reasonable cost of keeping the
dog or cat during the time that it is impounded; and
         (b)   If a stray or unclaimed dog or cat or is transferred to Madison
County Animal Control for holding, the owner must pay the fees set forth in
division (A)(1)(a) and $15 for a dog or $10 for a cat; and
         (c)   If Madison County Animal Control assesses an after hour call out
fee to the City of Madison, the owner shall also pay the City of Madison an
additional $110.
      (2)   The dog or cat shall not be released until proof has been furnished
to the Humane Officer that the dog or cat has been inoculated with anti-rabies
vaccine in accordance with the terms of this chapter.  The animal may be
released temporarily to a licensed veterinarian or an employee of a licensed
veterinarian, for the purpose of inoculation with anti-rabies vaccine or for
other treatment.
   (B)   (1)   After the dog or cat has been so impounded for a period of seven
days without having been reclaimed by its owner or anyone in behalf of the
owner, the dog or cat shall be destroyed under the direction of Madison County
Animal Control. If, at a later date, the owner of any such destroyed dog or cat
becomes known, the owner shall pay a $25 impound fee, a transfer fee of $15 for
a dog or $10 for a cat, and a cremation/euthanasia fee of $10 for a dog or $8
for a cat. If Madison County Animal Control assesses and after hour call out
fee to the City of Madison, the owner shall also pay the City of Madison an
additional $110.
      (2)   Whenever any impounded dog or cat shall bear an identification mark
such as a collar or  license tag, the owner shall be notified forthwith. Any
dog or cat impounded shall be held for a period of seven days. There shall be
no required holding period before returning any impounded cat or dog to the
owner unless the cat or dog is suspected of having rabies, in which case the
impounded dog or cat shall be held for a period of not less than seven days. At
the end of seven days, the impounded dog or cat shall be disposed of unless the
owner thereof shall reclaim the dog or cat and pay at the Police Department the
following fees:
         (a)   An impounding fee of $25 plus the reasonable cost of keeping the
dog or cat during the time that it is impounded; and
         (b)   If a stray or unclaimed dog or cat or is transferred to Madison
County Animal Control for holding, the owner must pay the fees set forth in
division (B)(2)(a) and $15 for a dog or $10 for a cat; and
         (c)   If Madison County Animal Control assesses an after hour call out
fee to the City of Madison, the owner shall also pay the City of Madison an
additional $110.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993; Am. Ord. 1734,
passed 3-15-2011)
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY; KEEPING ANIMALS
§ 97.35  INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a dog or cat
to permit the dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway or private lands or
premises without the permission of the owner of the premises and break, bruise,
tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree or garden in
any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat to
be on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by the person unless
the person has, in his or her immediate possession, an appropriate device for
scooping excrement and an appropriate depository for the transmission of
excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by the
person.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.36  MANNER OF KEEPING.
   (A)   All pens, yards or runs or other structures wherein any animal is kept
shall be of the construction so as to be easily cleaned and kept in good
repair.
   (B)   Fences which are intended as enclosures for any animal shall be
securely constructed shall be adequate for the purpose, kept in good repair and
shall not be allowed to become unsightly.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.37  DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dog
or cat to permit the same to run at large.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         RUNNING AT LARGE.  The presence of a dog or cat at any place, except
upon the premises of the owner.  The dog or cat shall not be considered to be
RUNNING AT LARGE if it is on a leash and under control of a person physically
able to control it.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the Humane Officer or any police officer or other
person designated by the Humane Officer or Chief of Police shall find any dog
or cat running at large, as defined in this section, he or she shall, if
possible, pick up and impound the animal in the place as the Humane Officer or
Chief of Police may direct.
      (2)   Whenever any impounded dog or cat shall bear an identification mark
such as a collar or license tag, the owner shall be notified forthwith.  Any
dog impounded shall be held for a period of seven days.  There shall be no
required holding period before returning any impounded cat or dog to the owner
unless the cat or dog is suspected of having rabies, in which case the
impounded cat or dog shall be held for a period of seven days.  At the end of
seven days, the impounded dog or cat shall be disposed of unless the owner
thereof shall reclaim the dog or cat and pay at the Police Department an
impounding fee of $25 for the impounding.
      (3)   The destruction of any impounded dogs or cats by the Humane Officer
or any police officer or any person designated by the Humane Officer or the
Chief of Police under the provisions of this chapter shall be by means of a
manner prescribed by County Animal Control.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.38  NOISY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or harbor any
dog which habitually barks or yelps, or any cat which habitually cries or howls
to the great discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in a
manner as to materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who are of
ordinary sensibilities.  The dogs and cats are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Petitions complaining of vicious or barking dogs or crying cats.
      (1)   Whenever any person shall complain to the Humane Officer or the
Police Department that a dog which habitually barks, howls or yelps or a cat
which habitually cries or howls is being kept by any person in the city, the
Humane Officer or the Police Department shall notify the owner of the dog or
cat that a complaint has been received and that the person should take whatever
steps necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping or crying.
      (2)   If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping a dog or
cat as set forth in division (B)(1) above is ineffective, then upon a verified
complaint of any person, the Humane Officer or the Police Department shall cite
the owner of the dog or cat for the violation alleged in the complaint.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.39  KEEPING NUMEROUS DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the city
for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which the areas were
created.  The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         DOG.  Any canine, regardless of age or sex.
         CAT.  Any feline, regardless of age or sex.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
a total of three dogs or cats, with a maximum of three dogs or three cats in
the number, within the city, with the exception that a litter of pups, a litter
of kittens or a portion of the litter may be kept for a period of time not
exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any licensed
kennel wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding.
   (C)   In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be located
closer than 100 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent residential lot.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993; Am. Ord. 1699,
passed 1-8-2008) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.40  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
inflict unnecessary or needless cruelty, torture, abuse or cruelly beat, strike
or abuse any animal or by an act, omission or neglect cause or inflict any
unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, injury or death to any animal
whether the  animal belongs to the person or to another, except that reasonable
force may be employed to drive away vicious or trespassing animals.
      (2)   Any unwanted animals should be delivered to the County Animal
Control for proper disposal.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any animal to
fail, refuse or neglect to provide the animal with food, potable water, shade
or shelter; or to cruelly or unnecessarily expose any the animal in hot,
stormy, cold or inclement weather; or to carry any animal in or upon any
vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         SHADE.  Protection from the direct rays of the sun during the months
of June through September.
         SHELTER.  As it applies to dogs, a moisture-proof structure of
suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow retention of body heat, made of
durable material with a solid floor raised at least two inches from the ground
and with the entrance covered by a flexible, wind-proof material.  The
structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of suitable bedding to
provide insulation and protection against cold and dampness.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.41  KILLING OR INJURING BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy any kind of bird
within the city or to throw stones, shoot at or use any implements with the
intention of killing or injuring any bird within the city.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.42  PIGEON CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   Owners of pigeons allowing their pigeons to roost or linger on
the property or buildings of others poses a health hazard in addition to
offending aesthetic senses by pigeon contamination.
      (2)   The lingering or roosting is declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Whenever a verified complaint of any person is presented to the Humane
Officer or Police Department, alleging that a person is allowing pigeons to
linger upon the property of the complainants, the Humane Officer or Police
Department shall cite the owner of the pigeons for the violation alleged in the
petition.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.43  BEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or maintain any hive,
sand or box where bees are kept, or keep any bees in or upon any premises
within the corporate limits of the city unless the bees are kept in accordance
with the following provisions.
      (1)   If bee colonies are kept within 50 feet of any exterior boundary of
the property on which the hive, stand or box is located, a barrier that will
prevent bees from flying through it, no less than five feet high, shall be
installed and maintained along the exterior boundary.  The barrier may be
either a plant or artificial.
      (2)   Fresh, clean watering facilities for bees shall be provided on the
premises.
      (3)   The bees and equipment shall be kept in accordance with the
provisions of the state statutes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit the
keeping of bees in a hive, stand or box located or kept within a school
building for the purpose of study or observation.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.44  WILD OR VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept
on his or her premises any wild or vicious animal for display or for exhibition
purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee.  This section shall not be
construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions or
circuses.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or permit to be kept
any wild animal as a pet unless a permit is granted by the Department of
Natural Resources of the state, the United States Department of Interior and
other governmental bodies and agency, federal or state, which have jurisdiction
over the animals.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep a vicious
animal within the city.  Any animal which is found off the premises of its
owner may be seized by the Humane Officer or any police officer and upon
establishment, to the satisfaction of any court of competent jurisdiction, of
the vicious character of the animal, it may be killed by a police officer or
Humane Officer.  This section shall not apply to animals under the control of a
law enforcement or military agency, nor to animals which are kept for the
protection of property, provided that the animals are restrained by a leash or
chain, cage, fence or other adequate means, from contact with the general
public or with persons who enter the premises with the actual or implied
permission of the owner or occupant.
      (4)   The Humane Officer may issue a temporary permit not to exceed 30
days for the keeping, care and protection of any infant animal native to the
area which has been deemed to be homeless.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  Any individual animal which when either unmuzzled,
unleashed or unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner’s family, in a
vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any person or other animal in an
apparent attitude or attack upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or
places.
      ENCLOSURE.  A fence or structure of a least six feet in height, forming
or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and
suitable to confine a vicious animal in conjunction with other measure which
may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as the tethering of a vicious animal
within the enclosure.  The ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and
designed with secured sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent
the animal from escaping from the enclosure.
      FOUND TO BE VICIOUS ANIMAL.
         (a)   The Health Officer or a law enforcement officer has conducted an
investigation and made a finding in writing that the animal is a vicious animal
as defined herein and, based on that finding, the Health Officer has declared
it writing that the animal is a vicious animal; and
         (b)   The circuit court has found the animal to be a vicious animal,
as defined herein, and has entered an order based on that finding.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL.
         (a)   As follows:
            1.   Any individual animal that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property;
            2.   Any individual animal with a known propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals;
            3.   Any individual animal that has as a trait or characteristic
and a generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked
attacks upon human beings or other animals unless handled in a particular
manner or with special equipment;
            4.   Any individual animal attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation; or
            5.   Any individual animal which has been found to be a “dangerous
animal” upon three separate occasions.
         (b)   No animal shall be deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks or
menaces a trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone
who has tormented or abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law
enforcement or guard duties.  Dogs shall not be classified VICIOUS in a manner
that is specific to a breed.
         (c)   If any animal is found to be a VICIOUS ANIMAL, the animal shall
be subject to enclosure.
      WILD ANIMAL.  Any live monkey or ape, raccoon, skunk, fox, snake or other
reptile, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other animal or any bird of
grey which can normally be found in the wild state.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.45  RABIES AND ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   Anyone having knowledge or reason to believe that any animal in the
city has bitten a person shall report within 24 hours, so far as is known, the
name and address of the owner and circumstances of the animal.  The report
concerning bites shall be made to the Humane Officer or Police Department.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever any domesticated animal has bitten a person, it shall
be confined in a place as the Humane Officer or Police Department may direct
and for the period of observation as may be necessary unless the animal is too
vicious and dangerous to be impounded safely, in which case it may be killed
and its head shipped to the County Animal Control for rabies examination.
      (2)   Whenever a wild animal has bitten a person, it shall be killed,
avoiding damage to the head (brain) area, and shipped to County Animal Control
under refrigeration, but not frozen, for rabies examination.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 97.46  KEEPING ANIMALS AND BIRDS; GENERAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place, maintain or
continue any pen, coop, yard or other building upon any lot or ground in the
city for the purpose of confining or housing any domestic animal or bird unless
the same is at least 25 feet distant from any dwelling, house, apartment,
hotel, restaurant, food or drinking establishment or rooming house, school,
church or any building wherein people are employed and unless the floor of the
building or coop is constructed of the material and in a manner that it can be
kept clean and sanitary at all times and unless the location of such shall be
authorized by the Health Officer.
   (B)   All coops and other buildings wherein domesticated animals and birds
are kept shall be provided with fly-tight bins or other tightly closed
receptacles for manure of dimensions sufficient to contain all accumulations of
manure as to prevent its becoming a nuisance.  No manure shall be allowed to
accumulate on the floor or on adjacent ground.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.  In
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the City Attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this chapter.  The application for relief may
include, but not be limited to seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary
injunction and permanent injunction.
(Ord. 1153, passed 8-30-1989; Am. Ord. 1216, passed 3-2-1993)
CHAPTER 98:  NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Sound amplifying
   
98.03   Amplified noise prohibited
   
98.04   Sound amplification; motor vehicles
   
98.05   Exceptions
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, business,
association, public or private institution, group, agency, or any legal
successor, representative, or agent of the foregoing.
(Ord. 1836, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 98.02  SOUND AMPLIFYING.
   No person shall, after 9:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday evenings and
after 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday evenings, the Fourth of July, and New
Year’s Eve, and until 9:00 a.m. the following day, operate, play, or use any
device or instrument that is designed for the purpose that creates or amplifies
sound, including but not limited to any loudspeaker, amplifiers, musical
instrument, radio, stereo, juke box, public address system, bullhorn, or device
that plays live or recorded music, or to generate any amplified sound for the
purposes of communication or entertainment, that is louder than an average
conversational level at a distance of 150 feet or more, measured horizontally
or vertically, from the source of the sound.
(Ord. 1836, passed 9-3-2019)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03  AMPLIFIED NOISE PROHIBITED.
   In addition to the provisions of §
98.02, it shall be unlawful, and is declared to be a nuisance, for any person
to cause, continue to cause, or allow the emission of, beyond the boundaries of
his or her property or property within his or her control, any amplified sound
or noise which disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood, or which
unreasonably interferes with or causes annoyance with the enjoyment of life,
sleep, or with any lawful business or activity.
(Ord. 1836, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 98.04  SOUND AMPLIFICATION; MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No driver of any motor vehicle within the city shall operate or permit
operation of any sound amplification system or any radio, stereo, or other
similar device, which can be heard outside such vehicle from 150 feet or more
when the vehicle and/or sound amplification system is being operated upon a
street or parking lot within the city, unless such system is being operated to
request assistance, warn of a hazardous situation, or otherwise be caused by a
vehicle responding to an emergency.
(Ord. 1836, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 98.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   The limitations imposed in these sections do not apply to emergency
vehicles, emergency signal devices, generators operated to provide emergency
electrical power, power lawn mowers and lawn maintenance equipment, lawn and
leaf blowers, and construction activities and equipment between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. A request for a variance from the restrictions imposed by
the provisions of §§
98.02 and
98.03 for annual events such as fairs, carnivals, or homecomings may be granted
by the Mayor. However, said request must be made in writing and delivered to
the Mayor at least 15 days in advance of such event.
(Ord. 1836, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 98.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an act prohibited herein shall be guilty of a
municipal ordinance violation and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99. Further, the City Attorney may bring an action to enjoin any person from
violating this chapter and seek an order from the Circuit Court ordering the
violator to abate any violations of this chapter, or be found in contempt.
(Ord. 1836, passed 9-3-2019)
   TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   PLUMBING SERVICES
      
113.   FOOD AND DRINK REGULATIONS
      
114.   APARTMENTS AND RENTAL PROPERTY; LODGING
      
115.   TEMPORARY SALES
      
116.   PARKING LOTS
      
117.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
118.   LAUNDRIES
      
119.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
120.   JUNK AND SECOND-HAND DEALERS
      
121.   FUEL SALES AND DISTRIBUTION
      
122.   AMUSEMENTS
      
123.   AUCTIONEERS
      
124.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
125.   ADVERTISING
      
126.   WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
      
127.   INDUSTRIAL BUSINESS LICENSES
      
128.   SPECIFIC LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
129.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Compliance required
   
110.03   Applications
   
110.04   Investigation
   
110.05   Appeal procedure
   
110.06   Revocation of license
   
110.07   License not transferable
   
110.08   Term of license
   
110.09   Fee; no credits or rebates
   
110.10   Notice
   
110.11   License good for one business
   
110.12   Posting license in conspicuous place
   
110.13   Inspection; right of entry
   
110.14   Fee in addition to tax
   
110.15   Receipt and register
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in,
transact or pursue any business or follow any avocation, make any exhibition,
or do any act hereinafter named or specified, within the city, without first
having obtained a license to do so, as hereinafter provided and required.
(Ord. 562, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.02  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All licenses which may at any time be issued under this chapter or
title shall be subject to all ordinances and regulations at the city, which may
be in force during that period of the license or any portion of the period, and
shall be subject to all laws of the state and conditioned upon their faithful
observance.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of any ordinance or law by any
licensed person, firm or corporation shall, in addition to the penalties which
may be provided for the violation, subject the licensee to a revocation of the
license.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.03  APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   All applications for a license shall be made to the Mayor, who shall,
for and in behalf of the Council, grant the same in all cases where it is not
otherwise expressly provided, in the manner and upon the conditions specified
and required herein.  If the Mayor shall, in his or her judgement, not feel
authorized or justified to grant any application for a license for any purpose,
he or she shall report the application to the next meeting of the City Council
for their action thereon.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license under this
chapter shall make a written application to the Mayor therefor, stating the
purpose for which the same is desired, for what length of time, specifying the
particular place where the business for which a license is desired is to be
carried on and stating other things as may be required by the provisions of any
chapter in this title relating to that specific business.  Where an applicant
for a license is required to file bond before being licensed, the bond,
properly drawn up and signed by the applicant and also by at least two good and
sufficient sureties or by a recognized and qualified bonding company, shall be
presented with the application.  Before any license shall be issued, the Mayor
must approve of the surety and the bond, when so approved, shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   If the Mayor shall grant the application and shall approve the
surety given in cases where bond is required, he or she shall endorse his or
her approval thereon, together with the amount to be paid the license, and upon
the filing of the application, so endorsed, with the City Clerk and upon
payment to the City Collector of the sum specified, whose receipt must be
executed upon the application before it can be filed, the City Clerk shall
issue the applicant a license for the purpose and time specified.
      (3)   No license shall be granted or issued for any purpose for a period
of time that extends beyond the end of the fiscal year in which it is granted. 
All licenses which may be issued shall be signed by the Mayor, City Clerk and
City Collector and shall be under the corporate seal of the city; shall specify
the kind of license and location of the building or premises to be occupied;
shall bear the date or the day it was issued and unless sooner revoked or
terminated shall expire on May 1 thereafter.  A new application shall be made
upon the expiration of any license which it is sought to renew.
   (C)   All applications for any license shall include the Federal Tax
Identification Number of the applicant.
(Ord. 562, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1693, passed 9-4-2007)
§ 110.04  INVESTIGATION.
   In case this chapter requires an investigation into the character of any
applicant or into the premises to be used, the Mayor shall cause an
investigation to be made.  The officer or employee making any investigation
shall return a report within five days giving the result of the investigation,
favorable or otherwise.  No license shall be approved by the Mayor until he or
she is satisfied that all requirements have been complied with.  No business,
licensed or not, shall be so conducted by reason of the manner of operation or
the condition of the premises occupied, so as to be or cause a nuisance.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.05  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Whenever any application for a license is denied by the Mayor or whenever
the Mayor revokes any license previously granted, the applicant or licensee, as
the case may be, shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.  The
appeal may be taken by filing a notice in writing of the intention and desire
so to appeal with the City Clerk within five days of the time the application
is refused of license revoked.  The notice of appeal shall operate to stay any
revocation of the license.  It shall be the duty of the City Council to
consider and determine the appeal at its next regular meeting and its action
upon the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.06  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted under the provisions of this title may be revoked at any
time, upon written notice by the Mayor or by the City Council, when it shall
appear to his, her or its satisfaction that the licensee has failed to pay the
city any penalty, fine, debt or liability whatever or has failed to occupy with
the provisions of any ordinance of the city or the laws of the state applicable
to the person, business, occupation or place so licensed.  The revocation may
be in addition to any fine that may be imposed.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.07  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   (1)   No license shall be assignable or transferrable, without consent
of the City Council, to be certified thereon by the City Clerk, nor so
construed as to apply to any other building or place other than that described
in the license, nor shall any person, firm or corporation be authorized to act
or do business under the license, but the person, firm or corporation to whom
it is granted.
      (2)   Any person to whom a license may have been issued may, with the
permission of the City Council, unless otherwise prohibited by law, have the
same transferred or surrender the license and have the same canceled and have a
like license issued for the unexpired term of the one so surrendered to the
person, firm or corporation or place of business to which he or she may wish to
transfer the same upon licensee named in the new license giving bond, if bond
is required, and complying with the ordinances and laws under which the license
is issued.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing herein contained shall be held to authorize the
assignment or transfer of pawn- brokers, amusements, peddlers, auctioneers,
junk dealers, second-hand stores, scavengers or out-of-door advertisers
licenses.
      (2)   Those licenses shall be non-assignable and non-transferrable.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.08  TERM OF LICENSE.
   Whenever any license is applied for after May 1 in any year, the same, if
granted, shall be issued to the person, firm or corporation applying therefore,
upon the applicant paying therefor the number of 12 parts the sum fixed for a
yearly license equal to the number of months which will elapse between the date
of the application for the license and the day when the license is made to
expire.  In determining the price to be paid, the month in which the
application is made shall be counted and included in the number of months to
elapse.  In case application for is made after the expiration of six months of
the current fiscal year, the license shall be issued only upon payment of one-
half of the annual fee.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.09  FEE; NO CREDITS OR REBATES.
   In no event shall any rebate be made of any license fee or part thereof, by
reason of the death of the licensee, or by reason of non-user of the license or
by reason of a change of location or occupation of the licensee.
§ 110.10  NOTICE.
   If a license extends for a period of time beyond two months, it shall be the
duty of the City Collector from 10 to 20 days prior to the termination of the
license period to cause a written notice to be mailed to each licensee,
directing the attention of the licensee to the fact that a new license will be
required on the day following the expiration of his or her existing license and
directing his or her attention also to the amount of the license fee and to the
penalty for failure to procure a license in accordance with the provisions of
the ordinance governing the issuance of the license.  Failure on the part of
the City Collector to cause the notice to be mailed to each licensee shall not
be deemed a defense to a suit brought by the city to recover the penalty for a
violation of the ordinance under which the license is required to be secured.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.11  LICENSE GOOD FOR ONE BUSINESS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation licensed to conduct any business under
the provisions of this chapter and this title may conduct on the same premises,
in connection with the licensed business, any other business required to be
licensed, provided the fee for the business which requires the payment of the
highest license fee is paid.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed so as to relieve any licensee from
the regulatory requirements applicable to the business.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.12  POSTING LICENSE IN CONSPICUOUS PLACE.
   Every license granted for the purpose of conducting any business or
occupation required by this chapter and title to be licensed shall be posted in
a conspicuous place so that the same may be easily seen, upon the wall of the
principal room or office of the store of place in which the licensed business
or occupation is carried on.  When the license shall have expired, it shall be
removed from the place in which it has been posted and no license which is not
in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted upon the wall or upon
any part of any room, store, office or place of business, after the period of
the license has expired.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.13  INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Whenever an inspection of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation is provided for or required
by this chapter or is reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any
ordinance provisions or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make an inspection, at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any provision hereof or to detect
violations hereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city, whose
business is governed by the provisions to give any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same, sufficient samples of the material or
commodity for the analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty that may be provided, the Mayor or the City
Council may revoke the license of any proprietor of any business licensed under
the provisions of this chapter and title, who refuses to permit any officer or
employee who is authorized to make the inspection or take a sample of the
desired commodity or who interferes with the officer or employee while in the
performance of his or her duties in making the inspection, providing that no
license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the
licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of the city, stating
that the inspection or sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the
inspection or obtain a sample.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.14  FEE IN ADDITION TO TAX.
   Whenever any license fee is provided for vehicles, the fee shall be in
addition to the vehicle tax now or hereinafter in force.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.15  RECEIPT AND REGISTER.
   (A)   The City Collector shall pay over all monies paid for any license that
may be granted to the Comptroller, who shall receipt him or her for all monies
so received, which receipt shall be a discharge to him or her to the extent and
purport thereof.  No person shall be deemed to be licensed in any case until
the issuing of the license in due form, as herein required.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses issued in a book
provided for that purpose, in which he or she shall enter the date, name and
place of the business of the license, number of the license, period of time and
for what purpose the license is issued, the amount paid and the particular
house or place in which the business license is to be carried on.  Forms for
all applications for licenses, bonds and licenses shall be kept on file by the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Whenever in any section of this title the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act or duty is declared to be a breach thereof, and there shall be no
fine or penalty declared for such breach any person who shall be convicted of
any such breach shall be fined not less than $3 nor more than $100 for each
such breach.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Licenses required
   
111.04   Retailer’s licenses, classes and fees
   
111.05   Distributor’s and importing distributor’s retail licenses
   
111.06   Separate applications, payment of fees
   
111.07   Application for license
   
111.08   Mayor, as Local Commissioner, to administer chapter
   
111.09   Renewal of licenses/lapse of license
   
111.10   Bond
   
111.11   Posting license
   
111.12   Medicinal liquors
   
111.13   Unobstructed view of licensed premises
   
111.14   Control or financing by manufacturers prohibited
   
111.15   Opening or closing hours
   
111.16   Certain acts prohibited and others required
   
111.17   Persons addicted to excessive use of alcoholic liquors
   
111.18   Government stamps, labels, etc.
   
111.19   Suspension or revocation of license by Mayor
   
111.20   Investigation of violations, immoral practices, etc. and penalties
therefor
   
111.21   Number of licenses to be issued
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be construed to the end that the health, safety and
welfare of the people of this city shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases herein defined
are used in this chapter  in the sense given them in the following definitions.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes the four varieties of liquor defined as ALCOHOL,
SPIRITS, WINE and BEER and every liquid or solid, patented, or not, containing
alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by
a human being. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used
in the manufacture of denatured alcohol, nor to any liquid or solid containing
½ of 1%, or less, of alcohol by volume. Nor shall the provisions of this
chapter apply to flavoring extracts, concentrates, syrups, or medicinal,
mechanical, scientific, culinary or toilet preparations, or food products unfit
for beverage purposes, but the provisions of this chapter shall not be
construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture,
preparation or compounding of such products. None of the provisions of this
chapter shall apply to wine intended for use and uses by any church or
religious organization for sacramental purposes.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CONSUMPTION SALES. The sale or offering for sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises where sold.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, other than a manufacturer, who is engaged in the
city in purchasing, storing, bottling, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic
liquors for resale.
   IMPORTING DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who imports, or causes to be imported,
into this state any alcoholic liquors for sale or resale within the city.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the application for the license
or in the license, as the place where the business to be covered or covered by
the license is to be, or is carried on.
   MANUFACTURER. Every brewer, fermenter, distiller, rectifier, wine maker,
blender, processor, bottler or person who fills or refills an original package
and others engaged in brewing, fermenting, distilling, rectifying or bottling
alcoholic liquors as above defined.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   OWNER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons who are owners or are in control
of any place where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on,
whether they be individuals, partners, corporations, joint companies, joint
ventures, fiduciaries or officers, directors, stockholders of a corporation or
otherwise.
   PACKAGE SALES. A sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, in
the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in
part on the premises where sold, provided, however, that PACKAGE SALES shall
not include original packages containing less than ½ pint of alcoholic liquor
nor sales in which the total quantity of alcoholic liquor sold is five gallons
or more.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by means whatsoever
for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any person,
whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL OR RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Refer to and mean sales for use of
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors, when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
   WINE. Any alcohol beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.03  LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell at retail or have in his or her possession within the
corporate limits of the city without having first obtained a license or permit
so to do as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.04  RETAILER’S LICENSES, CLASSES AND FEES.
   (A)   A Class “A” license shall entitle the licensee therein to sell, keep
or offer for sale at retail, on the premises licensed therein, any alcoholic
liquors, wine, or beer whether the same is to be consumed on or off the
licensed premises. Said license shall not be construed to prohibit sales in the
original package. The license fee for a Class “A” license shall be $750 per
annum, payable quarterly.
   (B)   A Class “B” license shall entitle the licensee therein to sell keep or
offer for sale at retail on the premises licensed therein, any alcoholic
liquors, wine, or beer in the original package only, and only when the same is
not to be consumed on the premises. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the holder of a Class “B” license from selling in wholesale lots in
the original package. The license fee for a Class “B” license shall be $500 per
annum, payable quarterly.
   (C)   A Class “C” license shall entitle the licensee to offer alcoholic
liquors, wine, or beer for sale and consumption on the licensed premises in a
designated video gaming area authorized by ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.
that shall be set apart from the rest of the premises, but only during normal
business hours and when prepared food and beverages are offered for sale. A
Class “C” license shall be treated as a Class “B” license for all other
purposes under the ordinances of the City of Madison except that the license
fee for a Class “C” license shall be $600 per annum payable quarterly.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord. 1810, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 111.05  DISTRIBUTOR’S AND IMPORTING DISTRIBUTOR’S RETAIL LICENSES.
   A distributor or an importing distributor may obtain one license to make
sales of alcoholic liquor at retail in not less than keg or case lots. Such a
license shall be known as a "Distributor's retail license," and the license fee
charged therefor shall be $300 per annum for beer only and $300 per annum for
all other kinds of alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.06  SEPARATE APPLICATIONS, PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   Separate applications must be filed for separate classes for licenses
by any applicant desiring to carry on more than one licensed business. And a
separate license must be obtained by any applicant desiring to carry on a
licensed business at more than one location for each location.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on January 31, and all license fees shall be
paid on or before January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.07  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license under this chapter shall make sworn
written application to the Mayor upon blank forms prepared and furnished by the
city. Each applicant shall furnish the following information in answer to a
questionnaire accompanying such application:
      (1)   The name, business and residence address of applicant;
      (2)   That applicant is a citizen of the United States;
      (3)   Applicant's place of birth and, if a naturalized citizen, the time
and place of naturalization;
      (4)   That applicant has never been convicted of a felony;
      (5)   That applicant has never been convicted of being the keeper of a
house of ill-fame, of pandering or of any other crime or misdemeanor opposed to
decency or morality;
      (6)   That applicant is not, at the time of making the application,
connected with a house of ill-fame;
      (7)   That a license issued to applicant under this chapter or any former
chapter has not been revoked or suspended;
      (8)   The location where applicant proposes to engage in the business for
which the application was submitted, and whether or not the proposed location
is within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent
persons, or for war veterans, their wives or children, or of any military or
naval station;
      (9)   The type of business to be carried on, and the date such business
was established;
      (10)   Whether food for human consumption is to be sold in such place of
business if such application is allowed;
      (11)   Whether alcoholic liquors will be sold or delivered outside of any
building or structure on said premises;
      (12)   Whether applicant owns the premises for which a license is sought,
and, if he or she does not, the name of applicant's landlord and the period of
applicant's lease;
      (13)   Whether any manufacturer, importer, distributor or wholesaler of
alcoholic liquor or any stockholder or officer of any corporation engaged in
any such business has paid, given or loaned money to applicant, or given,
leased or permitted the use of anything of value by applicant, or extended
credit to such applicant;
      (14)   The business or businesses in which applicant has been engaged for
the last five years preceding the filing of such application; and
      (15)   The applicant agrees not to violate any chapter of the city or any
law of the United States or of the State of Illinois in the conduct of
applicant's business and that in the event such agreement is violated or in the
event any statement contained in such application is not true, the license
applied for may be immediately suspended or revoked.
   (B)   All partners or joint venturers must sign if applicant is a
partnership or joint venture. All corporate officers must sign and indicate
their official position if applicant is a corporation. The information
requested in the questionnaire must be furnished as to each party signing the
application.
   (C)   Any corporation which applies for or holds a license pursuant to this
chapter must be incorporated by the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.08  MAYOR, AS LOCAL COMMISSIONER, TO ADMINISTER CHAPTER.
   The Mayor shall be known as the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the
city, and shall be charged with the administration of this chapter. Any license
issued shall be signed by the Mayor and counter-signed by the City Clerk and
the City Comptroller and issued under the City Seal.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.09  RENEWAL OF LICENSES/LAPSE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for renewal of licenses shall be filed with the Mayor on
or before the third Monday of June of the calendar year during which such
licenses are issued. The Mayor may approve or reject, as in the case of
applications for original licenses, and procedure upon such recommendation
shall be as in the case of applications for original licenses.
   (B)   An application for renewal of any license upon its expiration shall
not be granted if written complaint has been filed with the Mayor as to the
manner in which the applicant for such renewal has carried on the business
authorized with such license, until a hearing has been had on such complaint
before the Mayor, to whom such complaint shall be referred. The Mayor shall
conduct a hearing on such complaint within 15 days and shall serve a written
notice by mail upon the licensee of such hearing at least five days before the
date of such hearing, and upon the hearing, shall either approve or deny such
application for renewal. Reference for hearing before the Mayor shall not be
required upon any complaint which after filing, has been dismissed or
withdrawn, unless the Mayor shall direct an investigation therefore
notwithstanding the dismissal or withdrawal of such complaint.
   (C)   In the event there are not sales of alcoholic liquors at a premises
licensed hereby for a period of 12 consecutive months, said license shall lapse
and no longer be valid.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.10  BOND.
   Except where otherwise provided herein each person desiring a license shall
execute a penal bond in form and with security satisfactory to the Mayor,
conditioned upon the faithful observance of the provisions of the Laws of the
State of Illinois and of this chapter. Such bond shall be in the sum of $5,000
and shall, upon approval, be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.11  POSTING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause the license or licenses to be framed and hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.12  MEDICINAL LIQUORS.
   Alcoholic liquor may be sold or dispensed, without a license, by any drug
store upon the prescription of a licensed and practicing physician. Such
prescription may be filled only by a registered pharmacist and a record shall
be kept of each prescription so filled showing the date, person for whom
prescription is filled, doctor issuing prescription and the amount paid.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.13  UNOBSTRUCTED VIEW OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   No Class "A" or "B" license shall be issued for any premises unless said
licensed premises are so constructed that a clear and unobstructed view of the
interior thereof may be had by those passing on the street, road or sidewalk.
No screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in
the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such
premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed
premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times and no obstruction, nor
any arrangements of lights or lighting, shall be permitted in or about the
interior of such licensed premises which shall prevent a full view of the
entire interior of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. Any Class
"A" or "B" licensee who shall permit or cause the view of, in or about the
interior of the licensed premises to be obstructed or who shall not provide
adequate lighting for any such licensed premises, as above provided, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter, and be subject to the penalties
provided for hereafter, including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation
of the license.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.14  CONTROL OR FINANCING BY MANUFACTURERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person engaged in the business of manufacturing alcoholic liquors
nor any agent of such person, nor any importing distributor or wholesaler of
alcohol liquors shall be permitted to receive a Class "A" or "B" license, nor
shall any such person rent, lend, give or pay for any licensed premises or any
furnishings, fixtures or equipment used in the storage, handling, serving or
dispensing of alcoholic liquors or food in the place of business of any Class
"A" or "B" licensee, nor shall any person pay for any license issued to such
licensee nor advance, furnish or lend money for the payment of a license, nor
shall any such person be interested in the ownership, conduct or operation of
the business of such licensee.
   (B)   Any licensee who shall permit or assent or be a party in any way to
any violation or infringement of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of this chapter, and be subject to the penalties provided for herein,
including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.15  OPENING OR CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   No person licensed to sell alcoholic liquors under a Class "A" or
Class "B" license, as provided, shall permit his or her establishment to be
open for the sale of such liquors except as follows: Monday through Thursday 6:
00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. the following day; Friday and Saturday 6:00 a.m. to 2:00
a.m. the following day; Sunday 12:00 p.m.(noon) to 1:00 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   No patron shall remain, or be permitted to remain, on any premises
licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquors during the period of time herein
provided that such premises should be closed, and all such premises shall
remain locked during any time the sale of alcoholic liquors is not permitted to
be transacted on such premises.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.16  CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED AND OTHERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No applicant for any license shall store or install any alcoholic
liquor fixtures, equipment or supplies on the premises for which a license is
applied, or otherwise take any steps to open up any business to be licensed
under the provisions of this chapter until the application for a license has
been passed upon and approved and the license applied for has been actually
issued.
   (B)   Noise. No unnecessary, unseemly or disturbing noise shall be permitted
or caused by patrons, guests or other individuals or groups on any licensed
premises (including any patio or other outdoor portion thereof), nor shall any
live band, disc jockey or other professional entertainer be allowed to perform
indoors or outdoors on any licensed premises.
   (C)   Minors and other prohibited patrons. No licensee shall sell, give or
deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor, or to any intoxicated person or to any
habitual drunkard, spendthrift or insane, feeble-minded or distracted person,
or to any person who is known to be an object of charity or who is known to be
supported by any charitable association or institution or any relief commission
or organization.
   (D)   Service to upper or lower floors. No room or place where alcoholic
liquor is sold or dispensed, or any room adjacent thereto, shall be connected
by any elevator, lift, dumb waiter or similar device for carrying, transporting
or elevating food or alcoholic liquor with any room or rooms upon any upper or
lower floors of the same premises; provided this provision shall not apply to
hotels, nor to eating establishments occupying two adjoining floors and
regularly serving food on each floor.
   (E)   Minors. Persons under the age of 21 years are prohibited from any
premises licensed by virtue of this chapter.
   (F)   No beer in glass bottles shall be sold in bottles larger than 20
ounces in any premises licensed herein.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.17  PERSONS ADDICTED TO EXCESSIVE USE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS.
   Whenever any person shall notify any licensee in writing that his or her
father, mother, husband, wife, child, brother, sister or ward is addicted to
the excessive use of alcoholic liquor and in such writing shall request said
licensee not to sell, exchange or give any such liquors to such father, mother,
husband, wife, child, brother, sister or ward, such licensee shall not
thereafter sell, exchange or give to the person so designated in such notice
any such liquor, and his or her doing so shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. The decision not to sell to any patron pursuant to this section is
reviewable by the Local Liquor Commissioner by the licensee.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.18  GOVERNMENT STAMPS, LABELS, ETC.
   No licensee under this chapter shall sell or deliver any package containing
alcoholic liquor to any other person or sell the contents of any such package
for consumption on the premises, unless such package shall have affixed thereto
all cancelled revenue stamps which may be required by federal or state laws and
unless same shall also bear thereon a clear and legible label containing such
information as may be required by state law. No licensee under this chapter
shall sell or have in his or her possession or use any package or container of
alcoholic liquor which does not comply with the above requirements or which did
not comply therewith at the time same was delivered to him or her.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.19  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE BY MAYOR.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked by the
Mayor for any one or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   Violation of the laws of the United States relating to the sale of
alcoholic liquor, any law of the State of Illinois or any ordinance of the City
of Madison;
   (B)   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in the
application for such license; or
   (C)   The permitting of any unlawful, disorderly or immoral practices upon
the licensed premises.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.20  INVESTIGATION OF VIOLATIONS, IMMORAL PRACTICES, ETC. AND PENALTIES
THEREFOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall upon request, have assigned to him or her members of
the Police Department or Health Department of the city for the purpose of
making any investigation of violations of this chapter, the making of false
statements in any application for license, or the permitting of any illegal,
disorderly or immoral practices upon the licensed premises and may make written
reports of such violations, and upon the result of such investigation, the
Mayor may set a date for a hearing on such violations and serve or cause to be
served either by mail or by personal service, a written notice upon the
licensee, which notice shall set out the section of this chapter, the making of
false statements in any application for license, or the permitting of any
illegal, disorderly or immoral practices upon the licensed premises, which
allegedly constitute conduct subjecting licensee to any penalties provided for
herein including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation of the license.
   (B)   The Mayor shall conduct all hearings under this chapter and if he or
she shall find that the licensee has violated any section of this chapter, he
or she may suspend or revoke the license of such licensee, and/or assess such
fine against the licensee as hereafter provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The period for which a license may be suspended under this section
shall be, for the first offense, not less than three months, for the second
offense, not less than six months, and for the third and each subsequent
offense, not less than one year.
   (D)   Any licensee whose license has been revoked by the direction of the
Mayor shall not receive a license from the city to sell alcoholic liquor for a
period of two years thereafter.
   (E)   Where a license is revoked under this section no new license shall be
issued on the licensed premises for a period of at least three months and not
more than two years thereafter.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
§ 111.21  NUMBER OF LICENSES TO BE ISSUED.
    There shall be issued in the City of Madison no more than ten Class “A”
licenses, ten Class "B" licenses, and ten Class “C” licenses in effect at any
time.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord. 1810, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $750 per
violation, in addition to any license suspension or revocation ordered by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 1788, passed 1-12-2016)
CHAPTER 112:  PLUMBING SERVICES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Adoption of state regulations
   
112.03   Conformity to state regulations
   
112.04   Administrative authority
   
112.05   Office of Plumbing Inspector
   
112.06   Registration of contractors and the like
   
112.07   Plumbing permits
   
112.08   Fees
   
112.09   Notification to Plumbing Inspector
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   The definitions, as contained in this section, shall take precedence
over any other accepted meaning, including those contained in any reference
material referred to in this chapter.
      PLUMBING.  The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following:  sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and public or private water
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension or alteration of storm water, liquid waste or sewerage and water
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public-
disposal or other acceptable terminal.
      PLUMBING FIXTURES.  Installed receptacles, devices or appliances which
are supplied with water or which receive or discharge liquids or liquid-borne
waste, with or without discharge into the drainage system with which they may
be directly or indirectly connected.
      PLUMBING SYSTEM.  Includes the water supply and distribution pipes;
plumbing fixtures and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; building drains
including their respective connections, devices and appurtenances within the
property lines of the premises, and water-treating or water-using equipment.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.02  ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The State Plumbing Code is hereby adopted by reference and is apart of
this chapter.
   (B)   Any part of the State Code which may be in conflict with any part of
this chapter is hereby amended and superseded.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.03  CONFORMITY TO STATE REGULATIONS.
   No person shall hereafter engage in the business of plumbing in the city
either as a plumbing contractor, employing plumber or journeyman plumber who
shall not comply with the license requirement of the plumbing license law of
the state.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960) 
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04  ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The administrative authority hereby designed to administer and enforce this
chapter shall be the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.05  OFFICE OF PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created the Office of Plumbing Inspector of the
city.
      (2)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be appointed by and shall be
subordinate to the Mayor.  The Plumbing Inspector shall hold office for one
year and until a successor shall be appointed and qualified.
      (3)   No person shall be appointed Plumbing Inspector who shall not have
been, at the time of his or her appointment, a licensed plumber in accordance
with the State Plumber’s License Law.
   (B)   (1)   The Plumbing Inspector shall sign and issue all notices, permits
and certificates required by this chapter.
      (2)   He or she shall pass upon and approve all plans and surveys
required by this chapter.  He or she shall keep a record of the performance of
his or her duties which shall include a record of all notices issued,
applications received and permits granted.  He or she shall keep a record of
violations of this chapter.  He or she shall inspect and for the purpose
thereof may enter all houses and other buildings in the course of erection and
all houses undergoing alteration or repair as often as may be necessary to
insure conformance with the requirements of this chapter.  He or she shall
compel all work on plumbing to be performed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.  He or she shall cause to be kept a record of measurements of
all sewer taps in relation to property lines.  He or she shall collect all fees
required by this chapter and pay the same to the City Comptroller.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.06  REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   Every plumbing contractor, employing plumber and self-employed
journeyman plumber engaging in the business of plumbing in the city shall cause
his or her name, his or her residence and his or her place of business to be
registered with the Plumbing Inspector of the city.  In addition, the persons
shall give a bond to the city in the sum of $2,000 conditioned upon a full
indemnity to the city against damage to the city or to persons to whom the city
may be liable by reason of:
         (a)   Failure of the firm to observe ordinances of the city pertaining
to plumbing;
         (b)   Failure of the firm to observe all rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the city pertaining to
plumbing; and
         (c)   Negligence of the firm or its employees in performing or
protecting any plumbing work.
      (2)   The bond shall be renewed at intervals of two years, or oftener in
the event of the impairment of the surety.  The bond may be written by a
competent surety company, or may be secured by a deposit of cash or United
States Government securities in the amount of the bond.  The surety or security
shall be approved by the City Council and the bond shall be filed with the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Any firm which shall employ plumbers in their business who are not
licensed under the Plumbing License Law of the state shall have their
certificate of registration revoked and no new certificate of registration
shall be issued to such firm for a period of one year after the revocation. 
The firm shall be entitled to a hearing prior to the revocation, before the
City Council and to a notice of the hearing given by registered mail at least
ten days prior to the hearing; the notice to be addressed to the business
address last registered by the firm.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a certificate showing registration
hereunder in compliance with this chapter upon payment of a fee of $10.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.07  PLUMBING PERMITS.
   No plumbing shall be installed, altered or changed in any building or
structure within the corporate limits of the city until a permit for the
installation, alteration or change shall have been obtained from the Plumbing
Inspector.  The permit shall be issued only to a plumbing contractor, employing
plumber or self-employed journeyman plumber registered and bonded under §
112.06, or other person, as specified in Paragraph 14.17.lb of the State
Plumbing Code.  Applications for a permit shall be in accordance with Section
14.17.2 of the State Plumbing Code.  After the permit shall have been issued by
the Plumbing Inspector no change or modification in the plans or specifications
shall be made unless the change shall first have been submitted to the Plumbing
Inspector and approved.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.08  FEES.
   (A)   The Plumbing Inspector shall collect the following fees for permits
issued, which the fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of the permit.  The
fee shall be the same in the case of alteration or change of existing plumbing
as in the case of the installation of new plumbing.
Item Fee (Suggested)
Item                             Fee (Suggested)
Each plumbing fixture            $2
Air conditioning unit            $2
Each floor drain                 $2
Each water tap                   $5
Each four-inch sewer connection  $3
Each six-inch sewer connection   $5
Each eight-inch sewer connection $10
Each ten-inch sewer connection   $15
Each 12-inch sewer connection    $20
Each water meter                 $2
Each automatic washing machine   $2
Minimum combined fee             $35
 
   (B)   (1)   Wherever more than two trips shall be required by the Plumbing
Inspector for the purpose of making the tests required by this chapter on
defective material of defective work performed on the job, or for the purpose
of designing a plan for work, the person obtaining the permit shall pay to the
Plumbing Inspector in addition to the fees above set forth, the sum of $35 for
each trip in excess of two trips.
      (2)   Wherever any changes in soil, waste or ventilation pipe are made
and no changes are made in the location or number of fixtures, the person
obtaining the permit hereinbefore mentioned shall pay to the Plumbing Inspector
in lieu of the fees above mentioned the minimum fee shown above.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960; Am. Ord. 1608, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 112.09  NOTIFICATION TO PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Plumbing Inspector shall be notified by the firm or the person
doing the work when any plumbing work is begun and when it is ready for
inspection.  All work shall be left uncovered and convenient for examination
until inspected and approved.  The Plumbing Inspector shall examine the work
within one day after receipt of notice that the work is ready for inspection.
   (B)   All plumbing must be tested in accordance with Ch. 14 of the State
Plumbing Code in the presence of the plumbing inspector and all defective
materials and work replaced and corrected.
   (C)   Upon satisfactory completion of the work, the Plumbing Inspector shall
issue a certificate of approval.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall engage in the business of plumbing as a
journeyman plumber, plumbing contractor or employing plumber in the city
without having obtained a license from the state, as provided herein, and/or
any person who shall not be registered, as provided herein, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $50 for each time
that he or she shall so engage in the business of plumbing in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who has not obtained the permit required by this chapter
prior to the commencement of any plumbing work shall, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $10, nor more than $750 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall refuse or neglect to obey any order of the
Plumbing Inspector to correct or remove a nuisance existing by reason of
unsanitary plumbing or plumbing installed in violation of this chapter shall,
upon conviction of the offense, be fined not less than $5, nor more than $750
for each offense.  Each day that the nuisance shall continue to exist after the
expiration of the time fixed by the Plumbing Inspector for the removal thereof
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 741, passed 12-13-1960)
CHAPTER 113:  FOOD AND DRINK REGULATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Sale of frozen ice cream mix products
   
113.02   Sale of candy, snow cones and the like
   
113.03   Vehicles carrying foodstuffs
   
113.04   Bakeries
   
113.05   Milk
   
113.06   Refreshment dealers
   
113.07   Retail food establishments
   
113.08   Wholesale food establishments
   
113.09   Ice dealers
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  SALE OF FROZEN ICE CREAM MIX PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall sell or offer for sale from any
motor vehicle unit on any public street in the city any frozen ice cream mix
product, cones, syrups and toppings, ice cream, novelties or carbonated
beverage for human consumption from any motor vehicle unit without first having
secured a license therefor.
   (B)   (1)   Applicants for licenses under this section must file with the
Mayor a sworn application in writing which shall give the following
information.
         (a)   Name and description of applicant;
         (b)   Address of applicant;
         (c)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold;
         (d)   If employed, the name and address of the employer together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
         (e)   A description of the vehicle used, together with the license
number and serial number;
         (f)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a
clear and distinguishing manner;
         (g)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two
reliable property owners in the county who will certify as to the applicant’s
good character and business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an
investigator to properly evaluate the character and business responsibility;
and
         (h)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance,
the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the application by the Mayor, he or she shall cause
an investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character to be made as
he or she deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
      (3)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Mayor shall notify
the applicant that his or her application is disapproved and that no license
will be issued.
      (4)   If the character and business responsibility of the applicant are
found to be satisfactory, upon payment of the prescribed fee and upon
compliance with the other requirements of this section, the City Clerk shall
issue a license to the applicant signed by the Mayor, City Clerk and the City
Collector.
   (C)   (1)   The fee for a license hereunder shall be $200 for an annual
license covering the period from May 1 to April 30 of the next succeeding year.
      (2)   The Clerk shall issue to each person granted a license hereunder a
suitable certificate or badge bearing the number of the license.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE.  Any operator or person employed by him or her who dispenses
any ice cream mix product, beverage or ingredient from the motor vehicle unit
defined herein.
      HEALTH AUTHORITY.  The City Health Inspector or an authorized
representative of the Mayor.
      MOTOR VEHICLE UNIT.  The term motor vehicle unit shall mean any mobile-
van-type truck with a maximum width of 84 inches, a minimum length of 190
inches and a maximum length of 214 inches, containing a self locking, circular
type serving window, an air tight stainless steel refrigerated storage box, a
steel partition separating cab from serving area, hot and cold running water,
built in septic tank for waste water, a minimum 5,000 watt power generator and
truck marker lights with a minimum of four rear and two front amber safety
blinker lights and 12 amber marking lights, which shall offer for sale to the
public, frozen ice cream mix, cones, syrups and toppings, ice cream novelties,
carbonated beverages and other frozen ice cream mix products.
      OPERATOR.  Any person, who by contract, agreement or ownership takes
responsibility for servicing, operating, driving or maintaining any motor
vehicle unit as defined in this section.
      PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, firm,
institution, association or any other public or private entity.
   (E)   (1)   The health authority or the Mayor’s representative, after proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter the motor vehicle unit within the
city, or its police jurisdiction, for the purpose of inspecting the operation
of the motor vehicle unit.
      (2)   Whenever the health authority or the Mayor’s representative
discovers a violation of any provision of this section, he or she shall notify
the operator concerned.  The notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the condition found and state which section of this
section is violated by the condition;
         (b)   Provide a specific and reasonable period of time for the
correction of the condition; and
         (c)   State that an opportunity for a hearing on inspection findings
will be provided, if a written request for the hearing is filed with the health
authority or the Mayor’s representative within ten days of receipt of notice.
      (3)   Frozen ice cream mix products, ice cream novelties, carbonated
beverages and ingredients, cones, syrups and toppings intended for sale shall
be obtained from sources complying with the regulations of the city and other
applicable state and federal laws and regulations.  The products shall be clean
and wholesome, free from spoilage and shall be processed, prepared, handled and
stored in a manner to be protected against contamination and adulteration. 
Frozen ice cream mix contained in the ice cream mix dispensers shall be
maintained at a temperature not higher than 40°F.
      (4)   All parts of any frozen ice cream mix equipment which come into
direct contact with the ice cream mix shall be effectively cleaned and
bactericidally treated.
   (F)   (1)   The motor vehicle unit shall display a sign on the rear of the
van which shall read, “Caution Children,” shall have a clearly audible sound
system with either a chime or bell tone and shall have marked plainly thereon
the name of the operator with his or her address.
      (2)   The motor vehicle unit shall be kept in a clean and sanitary manner
and condition and the operator thereof shall keep his or her hands clean and
shall wear clean outer garments while engaged in handling any of the products
sold from the motor vehicle unit.
(Ord. 770, passed 5-25-1964) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.02  SALE OF CANDY, SNOW CONES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any candy, snow cones, ice
cream, confection or any food or beverage for human consumption, from any motor
vehicle or any vehicle or cart of any kind on any public street or sidewalk in
the city.
(Ord. 721, passed 2-24-1959) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.03  VEHICLES CARRYING FOODSTUFFS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any vehicle,
including wagons and motor vehicles and vehicles propelled by human power, for
the storage or carrying of any meats, poultry, fish, butter, cheese, lard,
vegetables, bread or bakery products or any other provisions intended for human
consumption, including beverages and milk, in the city for the purpose of
delivering any foodstuffs to any place in the city for use and consumption or
for resale in the city for such purposes unless a license for the vehicle is
first secured and the provisions of this section are fully complied with.
      (2)   Applications for the licenses shall be made to the City Collector
and shall state thereon the name and address of the owner thereof, the name or
names of the persons from whom the deliveries are made and the nature of the
goods carried.  The Collector shall issue the licenses and shall give to the
City Board a list of all licenses issued.
      (3)   The annual fee for the licenses shall be $20 and the license shall
be for one year beginning on January 1 of each calendar year.  The fees shall
be paid in to the City Collector, who shall turn them over to the Comptroller
forthwith.
   (B)   No license fee shall be required for any vehicle used to deliver
foodstuffs from any establishment which is licensed and inspected as a food
dealing establishment in the city, but all provisions of this section shall be
complied with in connection with the vehicles, other than that providing for
the payment of the fee.
   (C)   (1)   All such vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be thoroughly cleaned each day they are so used.  It shall
be unlawful to permit stale food, decaying matter or other waste material to
accumulate in or on any vehicle while it is so used.
      (2)   If unwrapped foodstuffs are transported in any vehicle, the goods
shall be carried in a portion or the vehicle which is screened and protected
against dust and insects.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the President of the city to make or cause to
be made inspections as may be necessary to insure compliance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 480, passed 12-29-1936) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.04  BAKERIES.
   (A)   Any establishment, place or stand used for the manufacture of bread,
buns, rolls, biscuits, cakes, crackers, matzos, pretzels, pastry, doughnuts,
waffles, noodles, macaroni, spaghetti or ice cream cones or any establishment
used for the process of mixing, compounding or baking any food product of which
flour or meal is a principal ingredient for sale to the public shall be deemed
a bakery for the purpose of this section.  A licensed restaurant in which any
of the forgoing food products are mixed and baked for consumption in the
restaurant only shall not be considered a bakery.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain or operate
any bakery, as defined in the foregoing division (A), without first having
obtained a license to do so.  The annual license fee, for any person, firm or
corporation securing a license under this section, shall be $25 and, in
addition thereto, the licensee shall pay an annual fee for each vehicle
operated in the delivery of bakery goods of $10.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to establish, maintain or
operate a bakery, as defined in division (A) above, shall make application in
writing for a license to do so, in accordance with the provisions of the
general licensing provisions of
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances, and shall also state therein the number of
vehicles used for the delivery of bakery goods.  It shall thereupon become the
duty of the city’s Health Officer to make or cause to be made an examination of
the place described in the application for the purpose of ascertaining whether
the lighting, ventilation, sanitary arrangement and equipment of the bakery
conforms to the requirements of this section.  The Health Officer shall endorse
his or her approval on the application and deliver the same to the Mayor for
his or her approval.
   (D)   If, at any time during the term for which a license is granted under
the provisions of this section, the Health Officer shall certify to the Mayor
that the provisions of this section have not been or are not being complied
with or that the public health of any person employed in the bakery is
endangered by its maintenance, the Mayor shall revoke the license thereof.
   (E)   Every place used as a bakery shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition as to its floors, sidewalls, ceilings, woodwork, fixtures, furniture,
tools, machinery and utensils.  All parts of the bakery shall be adequately
lighted at all times and shall be ventilated so as to insure a free circulation
of fresh air as all times.  It shall not be necessary to ventilate at such time
or in a manner that the process of mixing or rising of dough shall, of
necessity, be interfered with or prevented.
   (F)   Every bakery shall be provided with adequate plumbing and drainage
facilities, including well ventilated water closets.  No water closet shall be
in direct communication with a bakery.
   (G)   No person shall sleep in any bakery or in the room where flour or meal
used in connection therewith, or the food product therein, are handled or
stored.
   (H)   No employee or other person shall spit on the floor or walls of any
bakery or place where food products of the bakery are stored.  The smoking,
snuffing or chewing of tobacco in any bakery is prohibited.
   (I)   No person who has consumption, scrofula or venereal diseases or any
communicable or loathsome skin disease shall work in any bakery and no owner,
manager or person in charge of any bakery shall knowingly permit such a person
to be employed in the bakery.
   (J)   All rooms for the storage of flour or meal for use in connection with
any bakery shall be dry and well ventilated and every bakery and room used for
the storage of materials and food products in connection therewith shall be so
arranged that the shelves, cupboards, trays, troughs, buns, cases and all other
appliances for handling and storing the same can be easily removed and
cleaned.  If the floor of any bakery or room is below the adjacent street
level, no material or product shall be stored nearer to the floor than one
foot, no nearer than six inches to any outside wall.
   (K)   (1)   Every bakery shall be kept clean at all times and free from
rats, mice and vermin and from all other matter of an infectious or contagious
nature.
      (2)   Every bakery shall be kept reasonably free from flies and the
doors, windows and other openings of every bakery shall, from April 1 to
September 1, be fitted with self-closing wire screen doors and wire window
screens.
   (L)   The Health Officer and any member of the Board of Health or the Police
Department shall have the right at all times to enter the bakery in order to
make the inspection and record of conditions of any bakery as they may deem
necessary, and if the inspection discloses a lack of conformity with the
provisions of this section, the Health Officer shall require the changes,
alterations or renovations as may be necessary to make the bakery comply with
the provisions herein.
(Ord. 562, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.05  MILK.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MILK. Shall include sweet milk, skim milk, sour milk, buttermilk, and
cream.
      PERSON.   Individual, firm, partnership, society, association, or
corporation.
      (2)   This section shall be construed to apply severally to different
classes of persons licensed hereunder.
   (B)   No person shall engage in the sale, delivery or distribution of milk
within the city without a license therefor as hereinafter provided. Any person
desiring to engage in the sale, delivery or distribution of milk within the
city shall make written application in accordance with the provisions of 
Chapter 110.
   (C)   Any person engaging in the business of the sale, delivery or
distribution of milk in the city  shall pay to the City Collector at the time a
milk license is issued to said person, an annual fee; said fee to be as
follows:
      (1)   For the operation of each and every wagon or other vehicle engaged
in the business of selling, delivery, or distribution of milk: $10.
      (2)   For the maintenance or operation of a place of business where milk
is sold or kept for sale at retail: $10; provided, however, that should the
person applying for a license already have a license to operate one or more
vehicles, then in that case the license fee for operation of a place of
business where milk is sold at retail shall be the sum of $5.
      (3)   For the operation of a wholesale business where milk is sold or
kept for sale the fee shall be the sum of $15.
      (4)   For the dealer who both produces and distributes milk in the city
from a vehicle or in any other manner the sum of $20.
   (D)   The Board of Health of the city is hereby invested with the power of
making rules and regulations regarding sanitary conditions under which milk is
produced, transported, stored and handled. The City Health Officer shall have
authority at all reasonable hours to enter and inspect all places where milk is
kept, transported or produced.
   (E)   Milk is the whole, fresh, clean, lacteal secretion by the complete
milking of one or more healthy cows, properly fed and kept, excluding that
obtained within 15 days before and five days after calving, or such longer
period as may be necessary to render the milk practically colustrum free, and
shall conform to the State Dairy Law in regard to milk fats and solids not
fats. All skimmed milk, buttermilk, and cream shall conform to the standards
and definitions fixed in the State Dairy Law. It shall be unlawful under this
section for anyone to sell, offer for sale, or have in his or her possession
with intent to sell, any milk not conforming to such standards. Milk found in
possession of any person regularly engaged in selling milk shall be evidence of
intent to sell.
   (F)   No milk, except skimmed milk, buttermilk, or sour milk, shall be
peddled or sold at retail in quantities less than one gallon except in original
containers with caps bearing the true name of the articles, the name and
address of the producer, dealer or distributor, and bottles with the net volume
of the contents, in accordance with the Illinois Dairy and Food Law.
   (G)   No dirty or unwashed bottles or cans shall be returned to a producer,
delivery person or store. Persons engaged in selling or distributing milk are
forbidden to receive dirty or unwashed bottles or containers. Milk bottles,
milk cans or other containers for milk shall not be used for any other purpose
other than containing milk or milk products.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any milk containing any
artificial color or preservatives or to which water or any foreign substance
has been added or which has been handled or transported in unclean or
unsanitary containers.
   (I)   All raw milk offered for sale shall be derived from healthy animals
which have been examined by a veterinarian and found to be free from disease
within six months from the time such milk was produced; and shall not contain
more than 100,000 bacteria per cubic centimeter, and shall contain no
pathogenic bacteria.
   (J)   All persons living on farms where such milk is produced or employed
thereon, and all persons  handling or in contact with the milk in dairies or
other places, shall be free from contagious or infectious diseases, and shall
not have been exposed to any person having a contagious disease. No person who
is a typhoid, paratyphoid, diphtheria or septic sore throat carrier shall be
employed in the production or handling of milk. No milk or cream which has been
produced without full compliance with the foregoing provisions of this section
shall be sold or offered for sale in the city.
   (K)   Milk may be delivered at quarantined premises provided that there is
no contact of any kind between inmates and contents of the quarantined premises
and the delivery agent. No milk receptacles shall be taken from such premises
during the period of quarantine; and before being taken away for use such
receptacles shall be thoroughly scalded and sterilized.
   (L)   Every building, room, basement or enclosure or premises occupied or
used as a dairy or milk depot shall be properly and adequately lighted, drained
and ventilated, and shall have adequate plumbing facilities. It shall be
unlawful to employ any such place any person afflicted with a contagious
disease, or one who may carry the germs of such a disease.
   (M)   Any person, who shall engage in the wholesale or retail milk business
shall have each vehicle from which milk is vended conspicuously marked with the
name and address of the vendor on both sides of the vehicle. All vehicles in
which milk is transported must be covered and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and no bottling shall be done in transit. No bottling shall be
permitted in a grocery, butcher shop or other retail store.
   (N)   The City Health Officer or any other person designated by the Board at
Health at reasonable and regular intervals to be determined by the Board of
Health shall investigate and take samples of milk, skim milk, buttermilk or
cream to determine the quality and wholesomeness of the same, and they shall
make or cause to be made an examination of the same to determine whether or not
said products comply with the provisions of this section. For the purpose of
the above examinations any person handling or selling milk or milk products
shall furnish samples of such milk or milk products whenever so required by the
City Health Officer or other person designated by the Board of Health.
   (O)   Any milk from sick or diseased cows, or any milk to which any
artificial color or preservation or to which water or any foreign substance has
been added shall, upon discovery thereof be confiscated, forfeited, and
immediately destroyed by or under the direction of the Board of Health or City
Health Officer, who shall, if done in good faith, to be held harmless in
damages therefor in any suit or demand made.
   (P)   When it appears from the record that this section has been violated
except in those eases in which the violation is provable by a chemical analysis
the City Health Officer shall cause notice of such fact to be given to the
party or parties concerned. The party or parties so notified shall be given an
opportunity to be heard. The notice shall specify the date, hour and place of
the hearing. If after such hearing the City Health Officer shall believe this
section has been violated he or she shall cause the party or parties concerned
to be prosecuted. Provided, however, that in all eases where a violation is
provable, upon a chemical analysis it shall not be deemed necessary before a
prosecution for the said violation is instituted that any preliminary hearing
be held.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.06  REFRESHMENT DEALERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REFRESHMENT DEALER.   Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of selling, to the general public, food or drinks of any kind for
consumption on the premises of such refreshment dealer. All general provisions
of this section relating to REFRESHMENT DEALERS shall apply to each kind of
refreshment dealer mentioned in this section except where the same are in
conflict with other provisions of this section relating specifically to the
particular kind of business.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, Refreshment Dealers are classified as
follows:
      (1)   Restaurant.  Any establishment, place, vehicle, wagon or stand used
for the preparation or serving of meals or lunches for sale to the public.
      (2)   Ice cream parlor.  A place where ice cream, ices and ice cream
beverages are kept and offered for sale.
      (3)   Retail beverage dealer.  Any person, firm or corporation selling,
offering for sale, or keeping with the intention of selling at retail either in
bottles or other containers, for consumption on the premises, any malted,
cereal or vinous non-intoxicating beverages as defined by law, or any soft
drinks, carbonate beverages, fruit juices. waters, milk, buttermilk, chocolate,
tea, coffee, bouillon or other beverages.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation licensed as
a refreshment dealer or carrying on a business under the provisions of this
section to at all times keep the premises where such business is carried on
clean and in proper sanitary condition. All persons employed or working in any
such premises shall be kept clean and cleanly clothed. All utensils,
appliances, vessels, receptacles, refrigerators, pantries, rooms, or any other
places or things whatsoever which are used for the purpose of storing,
preparing or manufacturing must at all times be kept in a clean, wholesome and
sanitary condition. No decayed, unwholesome or impure material of any kind
whatsoever shall be kept, sold or offered for sale by the person, firm or
corporation in such business.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
a refreshment dealer as defined in the division (A) shall make written
application therefor, which shall conform to the general provisions of this
section relating to applications for licenses and which shall describe the
premises where such business is to be carried on. It shall be the duty of the
City Health Officer to cause an investigation to be made of the premises named
and described in such application for the purpose of determining the fitness
and suitability of such premises for such business from a sanitary standpoint.
If the applicant or applicants or its chief officer, if the applicant be a
corporation, is or are of good character and reputation, and if the premises
where such business is to be carried on are proper and suitable from a sanitary
standpoint, a license shall issue in accordance with such application upon such
applicant or applicants paying the license fee hereinafter provided.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer and he or she is
hereby authorized and empowered, to inspect and examine from time to time all
premises, wherein the business of a refreshment dealer is carried on, for the
purpose of ascertaining whether all of the ordinances of the city and the laws
of the state relating to the carrying on of such business are being complied
with at such premises. It shall be the duty of every person, firm or
corporation licensed under the provisions of this section to permit such
inspection to be made and to assist the City Health Officer or his or her
representative in the making of such inspection, and when required to furnish
samples of any materials whatsoever which are kept or offered for sale, which
samples shall be examined or analyzed by or under the direction of the City
Health Officer. A record of such examinations or analysis shall in each case be
made and kept on file in his or her office.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any employer to require, suffer or permit any
person who is affected with any contagious or venereal disease, or who is a
carrier of diphtheria or typhoid infection, to work in any refreshment dealer's
establishment and any person so affected shall be liable to the penalty herein
provided in case he or she works in any refreshment dealer's establishment
while so affected.
   (G)   The annual license fee for restaurants as defined in division (B)(1)
shall be $15.
   (H)   The annual license fee for ice cream parlors as defined in division
(B)(2) shall be $15.
   (I)   The annual license fee for a retail beverage dealer as defined in
division (B)(3) shall be $10.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.07  RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
         (a)   Any building, room, stand, enclosure, place or establishment
used, operated or maintained for the purpose of selling, offering for sale or
keeping with the intention of selling or distributing at retail, any food,
confection, condiment or drink used or intended for human consumption, or any
such article which is an ingredient of or is used for or is mixed with or
enters into the composition of any such food; provided, that for the purpose of
this section the term "food" or "drink" shall not be held to include ice cream,
ices, soft drinks or other beverages consumed or intended for consumption on
the premises, nor milk, cream, cereal or vinous non-intoxicating liquors or
beverages.
         (b)   A RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT shall also be held to include any
place, used as aforesaid, and operated, or maintained for the preparation,
manufacture, packing, bottling or canning of foods, confections, condiments or
drinks sold at retail in the establishment where such articles are so
manufactured or prepared; provided, however, that bakeries, restaurants and
other establishments which are especially licensed and defined by this section,
engaged in making or preparing foods, shall not be considered retail food
establishments for the purpose of this section.
      (2)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain or operate
any retail food establishment without first having obtained a license as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to establish,
maintain or operate a retail food establishment shall make written application
for a license so to do, which shall conform to the general requirements of this
section relating to applications for licenses, and shall set forth the location
and description of the premises where such retail food establishment is to be
conducted. The City Health Officer shall then make, or cause to be made, an
investigation of the premises described in said application for the purpose of
determining the fitness and suitability of such premises for a retail food
establishment from a sanitary standpoint. He or she shall then transmit this
said application to the Mayor together with his or her recommendation for or
against the issuance of a license. If the applicant or applicants, or its chief
officers, if it is a corporation, is or are of good character and reputation,
and the premises where the retail food establishment is to be located are
proper and suitable from a sanitary standpoint, the Mayor shall upon payment of
the license fee hereinafter fixed, issue a license in accordance with such
application.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, retail food establishments are
divided into the following classes, and the person, firm or corporation
establishing, maintaining or operating any retail food establishment, as here
classified, shall procure a license and pay a license fee annually for such
establishment as follows:
      (1)   Class 1. This class shall include grocery stores, fruit stands and
stores, berry stands and stores, candy and nut stores, vegetable stands and
stores, confectionery stores, and all other retail food establishments which
handle food products but do not sell fresh meats, fish, poultry or game, or any
meat products or meat preparations other than such as are contained and sold in
cans, folders, boxes, cartons or similar containers. The annual license fee for
this class shall be $15.
      (2)   Class 2. This class shall include meat markets, poulterers', fish
mongers' shops, establishments operating on the self-help basis, where the
buyer helps himself or herself to his or her purchases without a clerk. The
annual license fee for this class shall be $15.
      (3)   Class 3. This class shall include establishments which handle food
products and also sell fresh meats, fish, poultry, or game, and shall also
include all other retail food establishments not falling under Class 1 or 2 or
falling within both classes. The annual license fee for this class shall be
$25.
   (D)   The Mayor may revoke such license at any time by notice in writing
whenever it shall appear from the recommendation of the City Health Officer or
otherwise, that the licensee has violated the provisions of any law of the
state or of any ordinances of the city relating to the carrying on of the
business named in the license.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation
establishing, maintaining or operating a retail food establishment to keep the
floors, walls, pillars, partitions, ceilings, receptacles, refrigerators,
implements and machinery of every such establishment, and all carts, trucks,
vehicle and containers used for the transportation of food, in a clean and
sanitary condition. For the purposes of the enforcement of this section unclean
and insanitary conditions shall be deemed to exist if the food in the process
of production, preparation, manufacture, packing, storing, sale, distribution,
or transportation is not adequately protected from flies, vermin, dogs, eats,
rats, dust, dirt and from other foreign or injurious contamination; or, if
refuse, dirt, or waste products subject to decomposition and fermentation are
not removed daily; or if the trucks, trays, boxes, buckets or other
receptacles, or the refrigerators, racks, tables, counters, cases, shelves, or
the knives, saws, cleavers, or other utensils, or the machinery used in
handling, cutting, chopping, or mixing, canning or other processes are not
clean, or if the clothing of operatives or other persons employed in the
handling of food is unclean, or if no adequate toilet facilities, soap or clean
towels are provided for employees handling foods.
   (F)   (1)   Meat and other foods, except when in storage or refrigerator
rooms shall not be placed directly on the floor unless kept in suitable
containers. All racks on which meat is laid or hung shall be made of smooth,
hard material, constructed so that they can be readily cleaned. Floor racks and
the openings of boxes or containers must be at least six inches above the level
of the floor.
      (2)   All machinery, containers and utensils must be cleaned at least
once each day with hot water and soap or suitable washing powder and shall be
kept covered when not in use.
      (3)   Meat that has fallen on the floor shall not be used for food
products unless such meat has been trimmed or cleaned sufficiently to remove
all contamination.
      (4)   No operative, employee, or other person shall expectorate on the
utensils, apparatus or on the floors or side walls of any building, room,
basement or cellar where the production, preparation, manufacture, packing,
storing, or sale of any food product is conducted. Operatives, employees,
clerks and all persons who handle candy, bakery goods, meat and similar foods,
or who are engaged in the making or preparation of foods shall wash their hands
thoroughly in clean water before beginning work, or after visiting the toilet.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any employer to require, suffer or permit
any person who is affected with any contagious or venereal disease, or who is a
carrier of diphtheria or typhoid infection, to work in any retail food
establishment and any person so affected shall be liable to the penalty herein
provided in ease he or she works in any retail food establishment while so
affected.
      (6)   No retail food establishment shall be maintained in any building in
which horses, mules or cows are kept or stabled; unless such establishment is
entirely separated by a tight wall from the portion of any such building in
which horses, mules or cows are kept or stabled. The immediate vicinity of all
food establishments shall be kept free from the accumulation of rubbish,
garbage, manure or any other putrefying, decomposing, infectious, or bad
smelling substances.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use in any
retail food establishment, or to bring into or keep in the same with the
intention of selling, any food, condiment, confection or drink which is
unclean, unwholesome, tainted, putrid, decayed, adulterated, poisoned, infected
or in any other manner rendered unsafe or unwholesome for human food. For the
purpose of this section such food products shall be deemed unwholesome for
human food if the same have been contaminated by flies or other insects,
vermin, dust, dirt or other foreign contamination; if they contain any poisons
or deleterious or injurious ingredients in kind and quantities so as to render
such articles injurious or detrimental to health; or if they contain the whole
or part of any uninspected and unpassed meat or meat-food products or if such
articles are or have been submerged in brine or other solutions which are
unclean, sour, putrid, spoiled, or contaminated.
   (H)   The City Health Officer shall make regular inspection of all retail
food establishments licensed under the provisions of this section to ascertain
whether the provisions of this section or of any of the ordinances of the city
relative to the conduct of such establishment are being violated, and he or she
shall make report of any violation thereof to the Mayor.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.08  WHOLESALE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      WHOLESALE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.   Any building, room, enclosure, place or
establishment used for the preparation, manufacture, canning, bottling,
packing, distribution, selling, offering for sale, or keeping with the
intention of selling, or distributing, at wholesale, any article of food
confection, condiment or drink, including soft drinks and carbonated beverages,
used or intended for human consumption or any article which is the ingredient
of or is used for or is mixed with or enters into the composition of any such
food, confection, condiment or drink.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain or operate
any wholesale food establishment without first having obtained a license as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to establish,
maintain or operate a wholesale food establishment shall make written
application for a license so to do, which shall conform to the general
requirements of this section relative to applications for licenses and shall
set forth the location of the premises where such wholesale food establishment
is to be conducted. The City Health Officer shall then make or cause to be
made, an investigation of the premises described in said application for the
purpose of determining the fitness and suitability of such premises for a
wholesale food establishment from a sanitary standpoint. He or she shall then
transmit this said application to the Mayor together with his or her
recommendation for or against the issuance of a license. If the premises where
the wholesale food establishment is to be located are proper and suitable from
a sanitary standpoint the Mayor shall upon the payment of the license fee
hereinafter fixed issue a license in accordance with such application.
   (D)   The Mayor may revoke such license at any time by notice in writing
whenever it shall appear from the recommendation of the City Health Officer or
otherwise that the licensee has violated the provisions of any law of the state
or of any ordinances of the city relating to the carrying on of the business
licensed.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation
establishing, maintaining or operating a retail food establishment to keep the
floors, walls, pillars, partitions, ceilings, receptacles, refrigerators,
implements and machinery of every such establishment, and all carts, trucks,
vehicles, and containers used for the transportation of food, in a clean and
sanitary condition. For the purpose of the enforcement of this section, unclean
and unsanitary conditions shall be deemed to exist if the food in the process
of production, preparation, manufacture, packing, storing, selling,
distribution, or transportation is not adequately protected from flies, vermin,
dogs, cats, rats, dust, dirt and from other foreign or injurious contamination;
or if refuse, dirt or waste products subject to decomposition and fermentation
are not removed daily; or if the trucks, trays, boxes, buckets or other
receptacles, or the refrigerators, racks, tables, counters, cases, shelves, or
the knives, saws, cleavers, or other utensils, or the machinery used in
handling, cutting, chopping, or mixing, canning, bottling or other processes
are not clean, or if the clothing of operatives or other persons employed in
the handling of food is unclean, or if no adequate toilet facilities, soap or
clean towels are provided for employees handling food.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any employer to require, suffer or permit any
person who is affected with any contagious or venereal disease, or who is a
carrier of diphtheria or typhoid infection, to work in any wholesale food
establishment and any person so affected shall be liable to the penalty herein
provided in case he or she works at any wholesale food establishment while so
affected.
   (G)   No wholesale food establishment shall be maintained in any building in
which horses, mules or cows are kept or stabled, unless such establishment is
entirely separated by a tight wall from the portion of any such building in
which horses, mules or cows are kept or stabled. The immediate vicinity of all
wholesale food establishments shall be kept free from the accumulation of
rubbish, garbage, manure or any other putrifying, decomposing, infectious, or
bad-smelling substances.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use in any
wholesale food establishment or to bring into or keep in the same, any article
of food or drink which is unclean, unwholesome, tainted, putrid, decayed,
adulterated, or in any other manner rendered unsafe or unwholesome for human
food. For the purpose of this section such food products shall be deemed
unwholesome for human food if the same have been contaminated by flies or other
insects, vermin, dust, dirt, or other foreign contamination; or if they contain
any poisons or deleterious or injurious ingredients in kind and quantities so
as to render such articles injurious or detrimental to health.
   (I)   The City Health Officer shall make regular inspection of all wholesale
food establishments licensed under the provisions of this section to ascertain
whether the provisions of this section or of any of the ordinances of the city
relative to the conduct of such establishment are being violated, and he or she
shall make report of any violations thereof to the Mayor.
   (J)   Any person, firm or corporation establishing, maintaining or operating
any wholesale food establishment shall pay an annual license fee of $50.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.09  ICE DEALERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business of selling, peddling or delivering ice within the corporate limits
of the city without first having obtained a license so to do.
   (B)   All dealers in ice shall pay an annual license fee of $15; provided,
however, that any person, firm or corporation licensed to keep a coal yard
shall be authorized to deal in ice without the payment of any further license
fee.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall sell or deliver in the city, any
ice for domestic use which shall have been taken from any lake, pond, river,
stream or other body of water, wherever located, which is defiled by sewage,
garbage, ashes, decaying vegetation, refuse or wastes from any industry, or by
any other substance tending to make the ice cut or obtained from such water
impure and unhealthful; nor shall any person, firm or corporation sell or
deliver any except pure and healthful ice, free from nitrites and pathogenic
bacteria and to contain not more than nine-thousands of one part of free
ammonia and nine-thousands of one part of albuminoid ammonia in one hundred
thousand parts; provided, that this section shall not be construed to prohibit
the selling or delivery of impure ice to be used only for packing or cooling
purposes, that is to say, for use in places where it will not come in contact
with articles of food or drink.
   (D)   Every person, firm or corporation selling ice or offering ice for
sale, shall at the time of delivery of any ice sold, if requested to do so by
the purchaser of such ice or any servant or employee of such purchaser to whom
the delivery of such ice is made weigh the quantity of ice delivered and for
that purpose use accurate apparatus for weighing such ice. All ice sold within
the city shall be sold by avoirdupois weight unless it is otherwise especially
agreed upon between the buyer and the seller.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer and he or she is
hereby authorized, to make such inspections as are necessary to secure
compliance with the provisions of this section, and of all ordinances of the
city relative to public health, and he or she shall make immediate report of
all violations thereof to the Mayor.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 113.99
Cross reference:
   Coal yards, see §
127.03
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of §
113.05 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $200 for
the first offense, and for the second offense, the sum of not less than $25 nor
more than $200 and the revocation of his license.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation that shall violate or fail to comply
with any of the provisions of §§
113.06 through
113.08 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense; and
a separate offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which such
person, firm or corporation shall continue any such violation.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
113.09 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for
each offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
CHAPTER 114:  APARTMENTS AND RENTAL PROPERTY; LODGING
Section
Apartments and Rental Property
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Applicability
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   License renewal
   
114.05   Application and license
   
114.06   License approval
   
114.07   Fees
   
114.08   Enforcement
   
114.09   Abatement
Lodging Provisions
   
114.20   License required; fee
   
114.21   Hotels and rooming houses
   
114.99   Penalty
APARTMENTS AND RENTAL PROPERTY
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A residential building designed for three or more dwelling
units.
   OWNER.  The owner of any real property for rent or lease.
   RENTAL UNIT.  Any dwelling unit or structure in which the owner allows
another person or persons to reside for rent, hire or lease, including, but not
limited to any purchase under contract for deed where the seller retains an
interest in the property or a lease/buy-back agreement.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON.  The person or persons who reside within the corporate
limits of the city, designated by an owner who does not reside within the
corporate limits of the city, to receive all notices, letters of violation and
other communications and to handle or forward all communication to the owner. 
Service of a communication upon the RESPONSIBLE PERSON shall be deemed the same
as service upon the OWNER.
   VIOLATION CORRECTION ORDER.  A document issued by the inspection authorities
of the city listing the violations and required corrections to be made within a
stated time.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996)
§ 114.02  APPLICABILITY.
   Every person carrying on the business of renting or leasing property for a
profit without regard to the number of dwelling units owned within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996)
§ 114.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All owners of residential rental units, as above described, shall be
licensed.  It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to conduct, keep, manage
or operate or cause to be conducted, kept, managed or operated, any dwelling,
dwelling unit, apartment house, two-family dwelling, multi-family dwelling,
single-family dwelling for rent, hire or lease or for services rendered without
a license therefor.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.04  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses shall be renewed annually and are due on July 1.
   (B)   Licenses are not transferrable or refundable.
   (C)   All licensing fees shall be pro-rated on a six-month basis, except
renewals which shall only be paid on an annual basis.  All licensing fees shall
be designated to be used to maintain the departments of the Building and Health
Inspector or other departments charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996)
§ 114.05  APPLICATION AND LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   A written application for the license required by this chapter
shall be submitted on forms furnished by the office of the City Clerk.  The
completed application and appropriate fees to be filed and registered with the
office of the City Clerk.
      (2)   Applications shall accurately state the full name the license is to
be issued under; the full name and address of the owner of the buildings or
premises so licensed; the full street address, including all individual
apartment numbers, if applicable, of each rental unit found within the
corporate limits of the city owned by the holder of the license; the full name
and address of the person or persons to reside in each rental unit; the number
of persons so to reside; and the full name and address of the responsible
person who will accept notification concerning the premises.  Licenses are not
transferable from one party to another.
   (B)   Upon the sale of any structure, it shall be necessary for the new
owner or owners to acquire a new license subject to the same conditions as the
original license.
   (C)   Upon the re-rental of any rental unit to a different occupant or
occupants it shall be necessary for the owner to immediately notify the office
of the City Clerk of the change in occupancy status and to amend the license
application to reflect the changed status.  No separate fee will be charged for
the amendment.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.06  LICENSE APPROVAL.
   Upon receipt and registration of the application by the office of the City
Clerk, that office shall authorize inspection of each structure.  Upon written
approval from the Building Inspector that the structure or structures meet the
minimum standards as required by all applicable laws, ordinances, codes and
standards, the license shall be issued to the owner.  No license shall be
issued, or be renewed, in the name of any owner who owns property in the city
on which there are fees for trash hauling, alarm services and any other city
services owed.  Failure to keep all fees current is a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996)
§ 114.07  FEES.
   The fee for licensing shall be $25 per year and shall cover the licensing of
all rental units owned by a single owner or jointly held by husband and wife, a
partnership or corporation.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996)
§ 114.08  ENFORCEMENT.
   Failure to comply with any violation correction order within the prescribed
length of time shall cause the license to be revoked or suspended.  No license
shall be reinstated until all violations have been corrected.  Upon suspension
of a license the rental units in question and each of them shall be vacated and
shall remain unoccupied until the license is reinstated.  Failure to secure the
offending premises and all other rental units owned by the licensee will result
in penalties.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.09  ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever each and every rental unit owned by an owner, as defined
herein, is vacant for a continuous period of six months (180 days) or longer or
each and every rental unit so owned becomes uninhabitable because of fire or
other causes beyond the control of the owner or whenever each and every rental
unit so owned is occupied for a continuous period in excess of six months (180
days) by a person who pays no rent or performs no service in lieu of rent and
the owner receives no benefit from the presence of the person or persons upon
the premises, an abatement of the licensing fee may be issued, by the city’s
Building Inspector or his or her assistant, upon inspection of each and every
rental unit so owned.
   (B)   Before any abatement is granted, a fee of $5 must be paid to the City
Comptroller for an inspection to be performed and a request must be made in
writing and contain the reasons for the abatement; the name, address and phone
number of the applicant; agreement to allow during any granted abatement period
inspection of the rental unit or rental units by the city upon 24-hour notice
or other time mutually agreed to, but not exceeding 72 hours from the time of
the notice, to confirm that each and every rental unit owned by the owner
continues to meet the abatement criteria and provide copies of the monthly
utility bills, if any, during the abatement period, if the reason for the
abatement is that the rental unit or rental units are not inhabited or are
uninhabitable; and agreement that any violation of any one or more of the
provisions for abatement will make the abatement null and void and all charges,
fees, penalties and interest for licensing fees and non-payment of same shall
immediately be assessed and become due and payable.
   (C)   Any abatement request that is allowed shall terminate upon the
violation, directly or indirectly, by the owner of any of the terms and
provisions heretofore stated for granting the abatement, the issuance of an
occupancy permit allowing occupancy of any owned rental unit to any degree, or
the passage of 12 months from the effective date of the abatement, whichever
comes first.  All abatements, no matter when granted, must be renewed on or
before July 1 of each year, with payment of the required $5 inspection fee due
in full at that time.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996)
LODGING PROVISIONS
§ 114.20  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall conduct, keep, manage, operate or cause to be conducted,
kept, managed or operated, either as owner, lessor, lessee, agent or attorney,
any hotel, rooming house or lodging house within the corporate limits of the
city without first having obtained a license from the City Clerk to do so.  The
fee for each license shall be $5 per year for hotels, rooming houses, or
lodging houses with five rooms or less and $1 per room per year for each
additional room over five.
(Ord. 1303, passed 3-26-1996; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.21  HOTELS AND ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HOUSE.   Hotels, rooming and lodging houses.
      PERSON.   Natural persons, co-partnerships, corporations and
associations, and shall include persons of both sexes.
   (B)   The City Health Officer shall examine into and investigate the
character and qualifications of applicants for licenses within the meaning of
this section and report to the Mayor his or her recommendation as to whether or
not a license shall be issued to such applicant.
   (C)   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the Mayor for any
violation of this section.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to any person to conduct a hotel, rooming
house, or lodging house within the city unless such person is of ascertained
good moral character; and when application for such license is made the
applicant shall present himself or herself in person to the City Health Officer
and at such time present to said officer satisfactory proof of good moral
character. When application for a license is made by or on behalf of a co-
partnership, corporation or association, such application shall be made by the
manager, officer, agent, or other persons who will have the charge and
management of such hotel, rooming house, or lodging house.
   (E)   No license as in this section provided shall be transferred or
assigned.
   (F)   No person to whom a license shall be issued, as provided in this
section shall suffer or permit the hotel, rooming house, or lodging house to
which license relates to be used as a house of ill-fame, brothel, bawdy house,
or disorderly house, for the purpose of prostitution, fornication, or lewdness.
   (G)   Every person to whom a license shall have been issued to conduct a
hotel, rooming or lodging house shall at all times keep a standard hotel
register in which shall be inscribed the names and home address of all guests
or persons renting or occupying rooms in such house, which register shall be
signed by the person renting a room or rooms, or by some one under his or her
direction. Such registration must be made, and after the name or names so
inscribed or registered, the manager of the of the house, or his or her agent,
shall write the number of the room or rooms which each guest or person is to
occupy, together with the time when such room is rented. All of which shall be
done before such person is permitted to occupy such room or rooms. Such
registers shall be at all times upon to inspection by any guest of the house
wherein such register is kept and to any officer of the city or the state.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person to write or cause to be written in
any hotel register any other or different name or address than the true name or
address of such person or the name by which such person is generally known.
   (I)   No one room shall be assigned to two persons of the opposite sex
except in the case of children accompanied by parent or guardian, unless such
persons shall be registered as husband and wife.
   (J)   Where a license shall have been issued to any co-partnership,
corporation, or association to conduct a hotel, rooming house, or lodging
house, any person having charge, management, or control of such hotel, rooming
house, or lodging house shall be liable to prosecution for any violation of
this section.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   After the renewal due date, according to §
114.04, there shall be an additional monthly charge of $25.
      (2)   Any person or firm violating the provisions of §§
114.01 through
114.09 shall be guilty of a petty offense.  A fine of not less than $50 and not
greater than $750 at the discretion of the court.  Separate offenses shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
114.20 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense at
the discretion of the court.
      (2)   Separate offenses shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
114.21 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 1302, passed 3-27-1996; Am. Ord. 1303, passed 3-26-1996; Am. Ord. 1612,
passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 115:  TEMPORARY SALES
Section
Personal Property Sales
   
115.01   Intent
   
115.02   Permit required
   
115.03   Applications
   
115.04   Term of permit; conditions
   
115.05   Fee
   
115.06   Permit posted on premises
   
115.07   Hours of sale
   
115.08   Inspections
Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants
   
115.20   Registration required
   
115.21   Fee
   
115.22   Certificate
   
115.23   Exceptions
   
115.24   Revocation
   
115.25   License required
   
115.26   Transient vendors of merchandise
Photographers
   
115.35   Definitions
   
115.36   License required
   
115.37   Application
   
115.38   Fees
   
115.99   Penalty
PERSONAL PROPERTY SALES
§ 115.01  INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate the term and frequency of
personal property sales (such as garage sales, porch sales, basement sales,
yard sales and other similar types of sales, all hereafter referred to as
garage sales) so as not to disturb or disrupt the residential environment of
the area in which the sales are conducted.  It is not the intent of this
chapter to seek control of sales by individuals selling a few of their
household or personal items.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Any person desirous of holding a garage sale as hereinbefore defined, for
resale of used household items, clothing or any personal property items which
are owned by residents of the premises, shall obtain a permit therefore from
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.03  APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permit shall be made to the City Clerk upon forms furnished
by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.04  TERM OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each family participating in a garage sale must make application for
and pay for a permit. Any permit issued shall be for a term not exceeding three
consecutive days during each calendar quarter of the year for each family
participating in any garage sale (a maximum total of four garage sales per year
per family) and no sales shall be conducted on Sunday at any time.  In the
event of inclement weather causing the cancellation or postponement of the
garage sale, the garage sale may resume on the next clear weather day.
   (B)   Failure to resume the garage sale on the next clear weather day will
invalidate the permit and require an application for and issuance of a new
permit for the remaining days of the original garage sale.
   (C)   No charge will be made for the new permit.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.05  FEE.
   The permit for each sale shall be $5 per family.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.06  PERMIT POSTED ON PREMISES.
   The permit shall be posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to
be seen by the public and city inspector.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.07  HOURS OF SALE.
   Each sale shall be conducted between the hours of 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. only.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
§ 115.08  INSPECTIONS.
   Inspectors, police officers or any other officials designated by any city
ordinance to make inspections under the licensing or regulating ordinances, or
to enforce the same, shall have the right of entry to any premises showing
evidence of a garage sale for the purpose of enforcement or inspection, and may
close the premises from which a sale is being conducted or arrest any person
who violates the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1310, passed 6-18-1996)
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 115.20  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business in the city
as a canvasser or solicitor, calling at residences without the previous consent
of the occupant for the purpose of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions or
business of any kind, without first having registered in the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   The registrant shall give his or her complete identification, his or
her signature, the name of his or her employer, the nature of the products or
services in which he or she is interested, the names of the manufacturers of
the products or of the organization which he or she is representing and the
proposed method of operation in the city.
(Ord. 720, passed 2-24-1959) 
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.21  FEE.
   Each registrant shall pay to the City Clerk a registration fee of $3 for the
period expiring 30 days after the date of the registration.
(Ord. 720, passed 2-24-1959)
§ 115.22  CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Each applicant who shows evidence of good character and who pays the
fee provided for herein shall be furnished a certificate indicating that he or
she has registered and showing the dates covered by the registration.
   (B)   Each person shall, at all times while soliciting or canvassing in the
city, carry upon his or her person the registration certificate and the same
shall be exhibited by the registrant whenever he or she is required to do so by
any police officer or by any person solicited.
(Ord. 720, passed 2-24-1959)
§ 115.23  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to officers or employees
of the city, county, state or federal government, or any subdivision thereof,
when on official business, nor to solicitors for non-profit, civic and
eleemosynary organizations soliciting funds for charitable or benevolent
purposes.
(Ord. 720, passed 2-24-1959)
§ 115.24  REVOCATION.
   Any registration may be revoked by the Mayor or the Chief of Police because
of any violation by the registrant of this subchapter or of any other ordinance
of the city, or of any state or federal law, or whenever the registrant shall
cease to possess the qualifications and character required in this subchapter
for the original registration.
(Ord. 720, passed 2-24-1959)
§ 115.25  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RETAIL PEDDLER.   Any person, either for himself, herself or as agent or
solicitor for another person, who shall go about within the corporate limits of
the city, from house to house, from place to place, or from customer to
customer, and sell or offer to sell goods, wares or merchandise or vegetables,
fruits or perishable farm products, by sale at retail and by delivery of the
same to be made at the time and place of sale, or at any other place within the
corporate limits of the city, or who shall occupy any stand for said purpose of
sale on any public street, corner, sidewalk or other public property within the
city. Provided, however, that the provision of this definition shall not be
construed to apply to any person selling such goods, wares and merchandise of
any description, or vegetables, fruits or perishable farm products, raised,
produced, or manufactured by the individual undertaking to peddle the same; nor
to newsboys peddling newspapers within the city.
      SALE AT RETAIL.   Any sales to consumers and not to dealers and not for
purposes of resale, either in the form in which purchased, or any prepared or
manufactured form.
      SALE AT WHOLESALE.   Sales to dealers, or persons, for the purpose of
resale, either in the form in which purchased or any prepared or manufactured
form.
      WHOLESALE TRANSIENT VENDOR.   Any peddler, hawker, huckster, itinerant or
casual vendors whether the same be persons, firms or corporations, who or which
do not maintain within the city a bona fide place of business or establishment
and there carry on their business in a generally permanent and continuous
manner, throughout the year as compared with the manner in which like
businesses engaged in the sale of like products are now generally carried on
and conducted by persons, firms and corporations at established places of
business within the city; and who or which go about within the city, from place
to place, from store to store, or from market to market, and sell or offer to
sell their goods, wares or merchandise, or vegetables, fruits or perishable
farm products, by sale at wholesale and by wholesale delivery to be made at the
time and place of said sale or at any other place within the city, or who or
which shall occupy any stand for said purpose of sale and delivery on any
public, street, corner, sidewalk or other public property within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person firm or corporation, either as
principal or agent, to engage in the business of retail peddler or wholesale
transient peddler, in the city, without haying first obtained a license
according to the classification of licenses issuable hereunder and in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (C)   The Mayor of the city shall, on the application for a retail peddler's
or wholesaler transient peddler's license, issue such license to any such
person or applicant authorizing him or her to peddle within the corporate
limits of the city for the period therein applied for, on the payment of the
said applicant of the following license fee:
      (1)   Where the applicant applies for a retail peddler's license and
desires to carry his or her own goods for purposes of sale hereunder, for one
day the license fee shall be $3; for one week, $15; for one month, $30 and for
any period exceeding one month and not beyond the municipal fiscal year, $50.
      (2)   Where the applicant desires to peddle any merchandise by sale at
retail within the meaning of this section with a horse, truck or vehicle of any
nature, for one day the license fee shall be $5; for one week, $15; for one
month, $25; and for any period exceeding one month and not beyond the municipal
fiscal year, $50.
      (3)   Any applicant desiring to peddle under the meaning of this section
by sale at retail, who shall occupy for such purpose any stand, tent or
structure, on the public street, corner, sidewalk or other public property
within the corporate limits of the city, shall pay a license fee as follows:
$20 for the first week, $15 for the second week, and $10 for each succeeding
week thereafter. After ten weeks no further license fee shall be required.
      (4)   Any applicant desiring to obtain a license, as a wholesale
transient peddler within the meaning of the provisions of this section shall
pay a license fee of $100.
   (D)   No license fee shall be required from any ex-soldier, sailor or
marine; nor from any farmer peddling or selling the products of his or her own
farm; nor from any other person from whom the city is prohibited by state or
federal law from requiring a license fee.
   (E)   The Mayor may grant permission temporarily to any deserving poor or
unfortunate citizen to peddle free or upon such terms as may be agreed upon,
but in any event said permit issued by the Mayor shall not be for a period
exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.26  TRANSIENT VENDORS OF MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRANSIENT VENDOR OF MERCHANDISE.   Any person, firm, association or
corporation engaged temporarily in the retail or wholesale sale of goods,
wares, fruits, vegetables, perishable farm products, or other merchandise of
any other nature in any place in this city and who for the purpose of
conducting such business occupies any lot, building, room, stand, shelf,
counter, tent or structure of any kind. Provided that peddlers who are licensed
as required by ordinance shall not be considered to be transient vendors of
merchandise.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal or agent, to
engage in business as a transient vendor or merchandise in the city without
first obtaining a license to do so.
   (C)   Any person firm or corporation desiring to engage in such business,
shall file a written application in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 110, stating the applicant's name, residence, place where he or she
intends to do business, and the commodity or merchandise to be sold or offered
for sale.
   (D)   The fee for such licenses shall be $50 for each week. No license shall
be issued for less than one week at a time, but it may be renewed from week to
week.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003; Am. Ord. 1716, passed 11-10-2009) 
Penalty, see § 115.99
PHOTOGRAPHERS
§ 115.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINISH.  To describe, include and refer to all work and processes required
to be done or used in reproducing, from any exposed photographic film or plate,
a positive image or likeness of the person or object of whom the exposure was
taken and of making one or more copies thereof and of fixing, toning,
retouching, washing and trimming the photograph and material upon which the
same is reproduced prior to delivery thereof to the purchaser.
   ITINERANT PHOTOGRAPHER.  Any person, firm or corporation who solicits the
taking and selling of finished photographs for profit inn the city any who has
no studio or other place of business equipped therefor within the city.
   RESIDENT PHOTOGRAPHER.  Any person, firm or corporation engaging in the
business of or soliciting the taking and selling of finished photographs for
profit in the city who maintains a studio or other place of business equipped
therefor within the city for six months or more in any one year.
   TRANSIENT PHOTOGRAPHER.  Any person, firm or corporation engaging in the
business of or soliciting the taking and selling of finished photographs for
profit in the city who maintains a studio or other place of business equipped
therefor within the city for less than six months in one year.
(Ord. 618, passed 6-22-1948; Am. Ord. 623, passed 9-28-1948)
§ 115.36  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a residents transient or itinerant photographer to
conduct or carry on his or her business in any manner in the city without first
obtaining a license so to do.
(Ord. 618, passed 6-22-1948; Am. Ord. 623, passed 9-28-1948) 
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.37  APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   A person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business
of a resident, transient or itinerant photographer within the city shall make
application to the City Clerk for a license so to do, and shall state, in an
application, the place or places, where he or she has resided for the last
preceding year, his or her occupation and employment during the period, the
period of time he or she desires to engage in business in the city, and the
number of persons employed, to be employed by him or her or with him or her or
with whom he or she will be associated, in carrying on business in the city.
      (2)   The applicant shall deposit with the application the proper license
fee therefor.
   (B)   A resident photographer’s license may only be issued to an applicant
who either presents sufficient evidence that he or she has been in fact a
resident photographer for the year immediately preceding or posts a bond with
the City Clerk, with surety to be approved by the Mayor, in the amount of
$1,000, conditioned that, in case he or she should not maintain a studio or
other place of business within the city, for six months or more in the year, he
or she will make full payment to the City Clerk of the license fee required if
transient or itinerant photographers, as the case may be, for the period of
time elapsing between the date of issuance of his or her resident
photographer’s license and the time the photographer shall discontinue the
business.
   (C)   Each transient or itinerant photographer shall also deposit with the
City Clerk a bond with surety to be approved by the Mayor, in the sum of $1,000
conditioned upon the faithful performance by the applicant of all contracts
entered into with residents of the city for the taking, finishing and sale of
photographs.
(Ord. 618, passed 6-22-1948; Am. Ord. 623, passed 9-28-1948)
§ 115.38  FEES.
   (A)   The license fees for resident photographers shall be $50 per annum and
an additional license fee of $5 per annum shall be charged on each solicitor or
salesperson employed by the resident photographer.
   (B)   The license shall expire April 30 following the issuance thereof and
shall not be transferable.
   (C)   The license fee for transient photographers shall be $50 for the first
week and $25 for each week thereafter and an additional license fee of $5 per
weak shall be charged for each solicitor or salesperson employed by the
transient photographer.
   (D)   The license fee for itinerant photographers shall be $25 for the first
day and $5 for each day thereafter and an additional license fee of $5 for each
day shall be charged for each solicitor or salesperson employed by the
itinerant photographer.
(Ord. 618, passed 6-22-1948; Am. Ord. 623, passed 9-28-1948)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm of corporation violating any of the provisions of §
115.25 shall be fined a sum not less than $10, nor more than $100 for each
offense; and each day of operation by any party contrary to the provisions of
this article shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
115.26 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 116:  PARKING LOTS
Section
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Frontage consents
   
116.04   License fee; term
   
116.05   Application
   
116.06   Investigation and inspection
   
116.07   Denial or revocation of license
   
116.08   Conditions and standards
   
116.09   Prohibited activity
   
116.10   Filling stations in garages and parking lots
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE.   Any building or premises used for the purpose of storing, housing
or care of four or more automobiles, motor trucks, or any similar motor-driven
vehicles, at a given rate of pay per day, hour, week or month, or any building
or premises used for the business of  repairing, painting, adjusting or
remodeling, for pay of any such automobiles, motor trucks or any similar motor-
driven vehicles.
   PARKING LOT.   Any open-air lot, premises or enclosure used for the purpose
of storing four or more automobiles, trucks or any similar motor-driven
vehicles at a given rate of pay per hour, day, week or month, or used for, the
purpose of displaying such vehicles for sale.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 116.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall manage, conduct or operate a garage or
a parking lot within the city without first having obtained a license to do so.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.03  FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, operate or
maintain a parking lot in any block in the city where a majority of the houses
abutting on both sides of the street in the block are used exclusively for
residence purposes, or residence and retail store purposes, without having
secured the written consent of the owners of a majority of the frontage
abutting on the street on both sides within the block.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BLOCK.  The portion of the street between the two intersections with
other public streets nearest the specified location on each side.
   (B)   (1)   If, on either or both sides of the location, there is no
intersection within 300 feet of the specified location, the block shall be
considered as terminating at a point 300 feet from the center.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         STREET.  Highways, as have been dedicated either by common law or by
statutory dedication, as public streets and are actually in use as such and
STREET shall not be construed to include merely service highways which are
commonly known as alleys.
      (3)   Consents, once given and filed, shall not be withdrawn.  Consents
need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business, whether by
the same proprietor or not.  It shall be unlawful to forge any name to a
petition granting consents, or to falsely represent that the names thereon have
been properly placed thereon if such is not the fact.  These frontage consent
requirements shall not be construed as amending or changing the building
ordinances or any other ordinance relative to the conduct of a business.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955) 
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.04  LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a license to manage, conduct or operate a
garage or parking lot shall be $25. The official licensing year shall begin on
May l of each year and end on April 30 of the next succeeding calendar year.
All licenses shall expire on April 30, in each calendar year.
   (B)   The license fee herein above provided for shall be reduced in
proportion to the number of full calendar months which have expired in the
official license year prior to the issuance of the license, provided that the
full license fee shall be charged and paid for any license issued during the
first three months of the license year.
   (C)   No license issued hereunder shall be assignable or transferrable, nor
so construed as to apply to any other location or premises than those described
in the license, nor shall any person, firm or corporation be authorized to act
or do business under the license other than the person, firm or corporation to
whom it was granted.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 116.05  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall make a written application therefor which
shall contain all necessary information to insure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, including a description of the location, size,
number of cars to be accommodated and a statement of any services other than
parking, or of any commodities for sale, offered to patrons of the parking lots
and file the same with the City Clerk.
   (B)   The frontage consents provided for in §
116.03 shall be attached to and included as part of the application.
   (C)   Upon the application being filed with the City Clerk, accompanied by
the license fee herein provided for, the City Clerk shall forthwith transmit
and forward the application to the Mayor.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955)
§ 116.06  INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, upon receipt of the application from the City Clerk,
shall immediately cause an investigation to be made into the character of the
applicant, and of the premises named and described in the application for the
purpose of determining the fitness and suitability of the premises for the
conduct of the business from a public health, public safety and fire protection
standpoint.
      (2)   The Mayor may designate any officer or employee of the city to make
investigation.  The officer or employee making the investigation shall make a
report to the Mayor within five days giving the result of the investigation,
favorable or unfavorable.  If the investigation discloses satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or applicants or its chief officer, if the applicant is a
corporation, is or are of good character, that the premises where the business
is to be carried on are proper and suitable from a public health, public safety
and fire protection standpoint, and that all the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with, the Mayor shall endorse his or her approval thereon.
      (3)   The Mayor shall immediately notify the applicant of his or her
approval and the application for a license hereunder, endorsed as approved by
the Mayor, shall be, by him or her, returned to the office of the City Clerk. 
The City Clerk shall thereupon issue a license to the applicant for the purpose
and time specified.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make regular
inspections, or cause the same to be made, to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section, and of all ordinances of the city relative to fire
protection and to public health and safety. He or she shall make immediate
report of all violations thereof to the Mayor.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.07  DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any application for a license as provided for by this
chapter is denied by the Mayor, or whenever the Mayor revokes any license
previously granted, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall have
the right to appeal to the City Council.
      (2)   The appeal may be taken by filing a notice in writing of the
intention and desire so to appeal with the City Clerk within ten days of the
time the application is refused or license revoked and notice of the action is
given to the applicant or licensee.
      (3)   The notice of appeal shall operate to stay any revocation of
license.
      (4)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to consider and determine
the appeal at its next regular meeting after the same is filed and its action
upon the appeal shall be final.
   (B)   (1)   Any license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked at any time, upon written notice by the Mayor or by the City Council,
when it shall appear to his or their satisfaction that the licensee has failed
to pay to the city any penalty, fine, debt or liability whatever or has failed
to comply with the provisions of any ordinance of the city or the laws of the
state, applicable to the person, business or place so licensed.
      (2)   The revocation may be in addition to any fine that may be imposed.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955)
§ 116.08  CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   No parking lot shall be established or operated in any place
where the establishment or operation would be in violation of any ordinance of
the city.  Not more than one car for each 200 square feet of area shall be
accepted for parking in any such place.
      (2)   Each parking lot shall have sufficient entrances and exits to
permit the entrance and egress of cars without obstruction to traffic.
   (B)   No driveway to a parking lot shall be constructed, excepting in full
compliance with the ordinances relative to the issuance of permits for
driveways, and it shall be the duty of the operator of each parking lot to
maintain the sidewalk and parkway over which the driveway passes in good
condition.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate any parking lot unless there are
available on the premises adequate fire extinguishers and personnel competent
to use the same.
      (2)   There shall be maintained at each parking lot at least one hand
chemical fire extinguisher having a capacity of one quart of liquid or 2 pounds
of carbon dioxide for each 15 cars for which accommodations are offered, which
extinguishers shall always be maintained in good order and in accessible
places.
   (D)   If any business other than that of operating a parking lot is
conducted on the same premises with a parking lot, the business shall be
conducted in full compliance with all ordinances pertinent thereto, and any
license required for the operation of the business must be procured and the fee
therefor required must be paid.
   (E)   (1)   At the entrance of each parking lot, there shall be posed in
words and figures large enough to be read by prospective patrons a statement of
the rates to be charged and of the closing hours.
      (2)   There shall be at least one attendant on the premises at all times
during which the parking lot is open for business.
      (3)   If a parking lot is maintained in connection with a licensed
establishment serving food for consumption on the premises, and food or drinks
are served to the occupants of cars, sufficient adequate containers must be
maintained for all trash and refuse, and the premises must be kept thoroughly
clean by the proprietor.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to operate a parking lot unless the surface
thereof is at all times kept clean and free from dust.
   (F)   No person, firm or corporation licensed under the provisions of this
section shall permit any gasoline, benzine or other volatile oil to stand open
and exposed in any garage; nor to keep the same except in air-tight containers:
nor shall the floors or walls be permitted to become coated with grease and
oil; nor shall rubbish be permitted to collect in any room or rooms used as a
garage or adjacent thereto. Every garage and the entrances thereto must be kept
in a reasonably clean and safe condition. All garages shall be sufficiently
ventilated so as to permit a free circulation of air and the dissipation of all
poisonous gases and fumes.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.09  PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to serve intoxicating liquor for consumption in
any car parked in a parking lot and it shall be unlawful for any person in a
car parked in a parking lot to drink any intoxicating liquor while therein.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park
or store, in any parking lot, any automobile or motor truck or similar motor
driven vehicles which is not in a condition ready for use, or to park or store
any abandoned, junked or partially disabled motor vehicle, or to park or store
any motor vehicle for the ultimate purpose of wrecking or junking the same in
any lot.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation engaged in
the business of repairing, painting, adjusting or remodeling for pay of
automobiles, motor trucks or similar motor driven vehicles to use any parking
lot as a place for the parking or storage of any vehicles received or in the
possession of the person, firm or corporation, in connection with the business.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any parking lot or
portion thereof as an automobile repair shop.
   (C)   (1)   Any buildings constructed on a parking lot shall be constructed
in full compliance with the ordinances pertaining thereto, and shall have
exterior walls of non-flammable material.
      (2)   No licensee shall permit any gasoline, benzine or other volatile
oil to stand open and exposed in any parking lot nor in any building thereon,
nor to keep the same, except in airtight containers; nor shall rubbish be
permitted to collect in any such building or at any place on the parking lot.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder operating a garage, to
permit smoking therein.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.10  FILLING STATIONS IN GARAGES AND PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation licensed to conduct a garage or
parking lot shall have the privilege of conducting or carrying on the business
of a filling station.
   (B)   For each additional tank over three, an additional license fee of $10
shall be paid without the necessity of obtaining additional licenses.
(Ord. 694, passed 5-17-1955; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
Cross-reference:
   Fuel Sales and Distribution; Filling Stations, see
Ch. 121
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
116.02,
116.06(B),
116.08(F), or
116.09(D) shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and each day that any violation of this section shall occur shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 117:  ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
Sexually-Oriented Businesses or Establishments
   
117.01   Purpose and intent
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Prohibited businesses
   
117.04   Prohibited conduct
   
117.05   Manner of dress
   
117.06   Compliance required
   
117.07   Suspension and revocation of license
   
117.08   Nuisance; injunction
Health Clubs
   
117.20   Designation
   
117.21   License required; fee
   
117.22   Application
   
117.23   Revocation of license
   
117.24   Indecent or immoral behavior prohibited
   
117.25   Sanitary requirements
   
117.26   Adequate plumbing and drainage facilities required
   
117.27   Certificate vouching for employees’ health
   
117.28   Inspection; right of entry
Massage Establishments
   
117.40   Definition
   
117.41   License required
   
117.42   License fee
   
117.43   Examination
   
117.44   Application
   
117.45   Open and public records
   
117.99   Penalty
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES OR ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 117.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is declared to be the purpose and intent of this chapter to protect
the public health, safety, welfare and morals of the community, to promote the
stability of property values, and impose restrictions upon those activities
which pander to gross sexuality in a manner that would detract from the
neighborhood, adversely affect the property values, increase crime and violence
and be repugnant to the morals of the community.
   (B)   In recognition of the protections afforded to the citizens under the
First and Fourteenth Amendments, it is not the intent of this chapter to
inhibit freedom of speech or the press, but rather to deter those of low morals
from imposing their lack of morals upon the rest of the community; and further
recognizing that those parts of a community, which become centers of loose
moral conduct, frequently become places of rowdiness, criminality and indecent
behavior.
   (C)   It is further the belief that just as advertising is designed to
stimulate one’s appetite for desiring, goods or a service, an over-abundance of
preoccupation with sexual displays or material arouses the appetites of those
so preoccupied and encourages violations of the criminal statutes involving
sexual offenses and is contrary to the health, safety and welfare of the
community.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 117.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC.  The material or performance may be purchased or
attended, with or without consideration.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Madison County, Illinois.
   DISSEMINATE.  To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any business in the city that provides a service to patrons
and needs a license for any purpose from the city and/or the state before it
can or continue to operate.
   EXPLICIT SEXUAL CONDUCT.
      (1)   Displaying human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
   KNOWINGLY.  Being aware of the character and the content of the material or
performance.
   NUDITY.  The showing of specified anatomical areas of the human male or
female.
   OBSCENE MATERIAL OR PERFORMANCE.  Applying community standards, the material
or performance is as follows:
      (1)   The predominant appeal of the material or performance taken as a
whole is to prurient interest;
      (2)   The material or performance depicts or describes, in a patently
offensive manner, sexual conduct regulated by the laws of the state or city;
and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, the material or performance lacks serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   OPERATOR.  The owner, operator or manager of any establishment and any
person performing, with or without consideration, in the establishment.
   PERFORMANCE.  Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
other legal entity.
   SERVICE TO PATRONS.  The provision of services in establishments providing,
with or without consideration, food and beverages, alcohol or non-alcohol,
including, but not limited to hostessing, hat- checking, cooking, bartending,
serving, table setting and clearing, waitering and waitressing and
entertaining.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals or pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 117.03  PROHIBITED BUSINESSES.
   All establishments that feature or allow on their premises nudity by their
operators, employees, dancers, strippers, patrons or similar type entertainment
or activity; obscene material or performances; or explicit sexual conduct are
specifically prohibited.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.04  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any operator or employee of or any person in or upon the
premises of any establishment to:
   (A)   Knowingly feature or permit dancer(s), operator(s), employee(s) or any
other persons) to be engaged in nudity, obscene material(s) or performance(s)
or explicit sexual conduct;
   (B)   Knowingly disseminate, distribute or make available any nudity,
obscene material or performance or explicit sexual conduct;
   (C)   Knowingly engage or participate in any nudity, obscene material or
performance, or explicit sexual conduct;
   (D)   Knowingly act or provide any service or performance in a manner as to
expose to public view:
      (1)   His or her specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the specified anatomical areas; or
      (3)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof.
   (E)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above listed acts of
prohibited conduct.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.05  MANNER OF DRESS.
   Each operator and employee of and each person in or upon the premises of any
establishment shall wear clothes of opaque material which shall cover that
operator’s, employee’s or person’s specified anatomical areas.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.06  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No operator, employee or person shall operate any establishment without
complying with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.07  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to other penalties and remedies provided by law, the license of
any establishment may be revoked for violations of this chapter or for
violation of other laws and ordinances.  Any operator or person aggrieved by a
suspension or revocation may appeal in the manner provided by state law and
city ordinances for administrative appeals.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 117.08  NUISANCE; INJUNCTION.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   In addition to any other relief or penalty provided by this chapter,
the City Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an
injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The application for relief may include seeking a temporary restraining
order, temporary injunction and permanent injunction.
(Ord. 1140, passed 2-21-1989)
HEALTH CLUBS
§ 117.20  DESIGNATION.
   Any establishment, place or stand, used for the purpose of physical fitness,
body exercise, body conditioning, body toning, body development or massaging,
where money is charged directly or indirectly for admission to or services
rendered in the establishment, place or stand shall be deemed a health club for
the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
§ 117.21  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain or operate any
health club without first obtaining a license so to do.  The annual license fee
for any person, firm or corporation shall be $150.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
§ 117.22  APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to establish, maintain or operate a
health club, as defined in this subchapter, shall make application in writing
for a license to do so in accordance with the provisions of §
117.20.  It shall thereupon become the duty of the city Health Officer to make
or cause to be made an examination of the place described in the application
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the lighting, ventilation, sanitary
arrangement and equipment of the health club conforms to the requirements of
all the applicable ordinances of the city.  The city Health Officer shall
endorse his or her approval on the application and deliver the same to the
Mayor for his or her approval.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
§ 117.23  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   If at any time during the term for which a license is granted under the
provisions of this subchapter, the city Health Officer shall certify to the
Mayor that the provisions of this subchapter have not been or are not being
complied with, or that the public health or the health of any person employed
in the health club is endangered by its maintenance, the Mayor shall revoke the
license thereof.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
§ 117.24  INDECENT OR IMMORAL BEHAVIOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to own, conduct, give, exhibit or perform any immoral,
immodest or indecent massages, treatments or other exhibitions, shows or
amusements under any license issued under the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.25  SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every place used as a health club shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition as to its floors, side walls, ceilings, woodwork, fixtures,
furniture, tools, machinery and utensils.  All parts of the health club shall
be adequately lighted at all times and shall be ventilated so as to insure a
free circulation of fresh air at all times.
   (B)   Every health club shall be kept clean at all times and free from rats,
mice and vermin and from all matter of an infection or contagious nature.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
§ 117.26  ADEQUATE PLUMBING AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   Every health club shall be provided with adequate plumbing and drainage
facilities, including well ventilated water closets, shower rooms and locker
rooms.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
§ 117.27  CERTIFICATE VOUCHING FOR EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH.
   (A)   Each and every person before beginning his or her employment or job in
the health club shall submit to the city Health Officer a certificate from a
licensed physician in the state, that the person does not have consumption,
scrofula or venereal diseases or any communicable or loathsome skin diseases.
   (B)   No owner, manager or person in charge of any health club shall
knowingly permit such a person to be employed in the health club.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.28  INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city Health Officer, any member of the Board of Health or any member of
the Police Department shall have the right, at all times, to enter the health
club in order to make an inspection and record of the condition of any health
club as they may deem necessary, and if the inspection discloses a lack of
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter, the city Health Officer
shall require changes, alterations or renovations as may be necessary to make
the health club comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973)
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 117.40  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MASSEUR and MASSEUSE.  Any person who, for monetary or non-monetary
consideration, engages in a method of treating the body for remedial,
therapeutical or hygienic purposes by rubbing, stroking, kneading or tapping
the human body or its parts with the hand or an instrument.  The definition
shall not extend to any physician, nurse, chiropractor or medical technician
working under the supervision of a physician, nor shall it include any member
of a hospital staff.
(Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 117.41  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall employ as a masseur or masseuse
any person who has not been licensed to engage in the occupation, pursuant to
the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall engage in the activity of a masseur or masseuse within
the limits of the city unless the person has been licensed so to do or unless
the person is exempted, as provided for under §
117.40.
(Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.42  LICENSE FEE.
   In order for any person to be licensed as a masseur or masseuse, the person
must pay an annual license fee of $75 and furnish proof that he or she has
taken and satisfactorily passed a course of study, amounting to or being
equivalent to 12 semester hours, in physiotherapy at an accredited junior
college or its equivalent or that the person has satisfactorily passed the
examination for license of masseur or masseuse given by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 117.43  EXAMINATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall give an examination for license as masseur or
masseuse, at the times as he or she may direct, provided that the examination
shall be given at least two times in any calender year during the months of
March and August, with 30-day notice before each examination being posted in
the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any person desiring to take the examination for the license as a
masseur or masseuse shall:
      (1)   Make written application to the City Clerk for permission to take
the examination for license as a masseur or masseuse no less than seven days
prior to the date designated for the examination; and
      (2)   Pay the examination fee of $50 to the Comptroller no less than
seven days prior to the date designated for the examination.
(Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 117.44  APPLICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false statement in
his or her application for a test for license or license as a masseur or
masseuse as to the name, age, residential address, proposed employer and/or
employer, education and misdemeanor and/or felony convictions.
(Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974) 
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.45  OPEN AND PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall maintain open and public records containing the names
and addresses of all masseurs and masseuses who have been licensed by the city
and the employer of any person or persons who will be employed as masseurs or
masseuses shall be deemed to have constructive knowledge of the contents
thereof.
(Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974)
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation that shall hereafter establish,
maintain or operate any health club, without first procuring a license so to
do, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $750 for each offense.  A
separate offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which the person,
firm or corporation shall maintain or operate any health club without a license
as aforesaid.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation that violates or fails to comply with
any other provision of §§
117.20 through
117.28 shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $750 for each offense.  A
separate offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which the person,
firm or corporation shall continue any violation or failure.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation that violates or fails to comply
with any provision of §§
117.40 through
117.45 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which
the person, firm or corporation shall continue any violation or failure.
(Ord. 875, passed 6-26-1973; Am. Ord. 888, passed 5-7-1974)
CHAPTER 118:  LAUNDRIES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Hours of operation
   
118.03   Equipment required
   
118.04   Dry cleaning
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY.  Any place, building, structure, room,
establishment or any portion thereof which is used for the purpose of
laundering, washing, drying or cleaning any clothing, wearing apparel,
materials or fabrics, and shall include any place where any self- service
machine is rented for compensation for the laundering, washing, drying and/or
cleaning of any clothing, wearing apparel, materials or fabrics on a time or
per load basis, within the city.
   DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT.  Any place, building, structure, room,
establishment or portion thereof, which is used for the purpose of dry cleaning
of any clothing, wearing apparel, materials or fabrics, and shall include any
place where any self-service machine is rented for compensation for the dry
cleaning of any clothing, wearing apparel, materials or fabrics on a time or a
per load basis, within the city.
(Ord. 769, passed 5-12-1964)
§ 118.02  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any such establishment open for business
between the hours of 12 a.m. and 6 a.m. unless there is an adult attendant in
charge of the premises during the hours.
(Ord. 769, passed 5-12-1964) 
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.03  EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   At all times, there shall be at least two 15-pound CO2 fire extinguishers on
the premises and to be tested annually and the certificate of inspection
attached thereto.
(Ord. 769, passed 5-12-1964) 
Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.04  DRY CLEANING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
engage in or carry on within the city the business of dry cleaning or spotting,
in which gasoline, naphtha, benzine or other volatile oils are used to clean or
renovate any clothing or articles of wearing apparel or any fabric of any kind,
without first obtaining a license, as hereinafter provided, for each dry,
cleaning or spotting establishment proposed to be conducted by such person,
firm or corporation.
      (2)   Every person, firm or corporation keeping or using more than two
quarts of gasoline, naphtha, benzine or other volatile oils for the purposes
above mentioned, for profit or reward, shall be held and is hereby declared and
defined to be a dry cleaner.
      (3)   Every person, firm or corporation keeping or using two quarts or
less of gasoline, naphtha, benzine or other volatile oils for the purposes
above mentioned, for profit or reward, shall be held and is hereby declared and
defined to be a spotter.
   (B)   Applications for such license shall be made in writing in accordance
with the provisions of
Chapter 110. A separate application shall be made for each dry cleaning or
spotting establishment carried on or conducted by the applicant wherever
located within the city.
   (C)   The annual license fee for any person, firm or corporation securing a
license under this section shall be $25. No license granted under the
provisions of this section shall be assigned or transmitted to any other
person, firm or corporation nor shall any such license authorize any person,
firm or corporation other than the licensee named therein to do business or to
act under such license. Such license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
the room where the dry cleaning or spotting is done.
   (D)   No dry cleaning establishment shall be operated in any building which
does not comply with the provisions of any of the ordinances of the city
relating to the construction of buildings. Such establishments shall be kept as
free as possible from flammable wastes, and it shall be unlawful to maintain or
permit a stove or open flame by any kind on the premises; smoking in or on such
premises is prohibited.
   (E)   It shall hereafter be unlawful to establish a dry cleaning
establishment in any place where a majority of the buildings within a radius of
800 feet are used exclusively for residence purposes without first secured the
written consent of the owners of a majority of the lots or parcels of ground
within such radius.
   (F)   The provisions of the code relative to the storage or handling of
flammable liquids must be fully complied with in every dry cleaning
establishment.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see to the enforcement
of the provisions of this section, by making an inspection of such premises at
least once every three months, and if any of the provisions of this section or
of any of the ordinances of the city are being violated it shall be the duty of
the Chief of Police to order the licensee to immediately comply with the
provisions of said ordinances, and upon a failure of the licensee to do so
within 12 hours, the Chief of Police shall report the same to the Mayor, who
shall immediately revoke the license granted under the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) Penalty, see § 118.99
§ 118.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating, failing or refusing to
comply with any of the provisions of §
118.04 shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $25 nor more than $200
for each offense, and a separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as
having been committed for each and every day on which any such person, firm or
corporation shall violate, fail or refuse to comply with any of the provisions
of this section.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 119:  TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   License required; fee; conditions
   
119.03   Number of tobacco vendors restricted
   
119.04   Prohibited sales
   
119.05   Warning signs
   
119.06   Identification required
   
119.07   Minimum age to purchase tobacco
   
119.08   Proximity of certain institutions
   
119.09   Samples and free distribution prohibited
   
119.10   Out-of-package sales
   
119.11   Vendor-assisted sales
   
119.12   Responsibility for agents and employees
   
119.13   Non-retaliation
   
119.14   Suspension and revocation of license
   
119.15   Inspections
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECK.
      (1)   An inspection conducted with the intention of assessing retail
sales of tobacco products to minors and enforcing age-of-sales laws.
      (2)   COMPLIANCE CHECKS are conducted by having designated persons under
the age attempt to purchase tobacco products from vendors.
   LICENSE.  A license issued by the city for the retail sale of tobacco
products.
   LICENSEE.  The holder of a valid license for the retail sale of tobacco
products.
   MINOR.  Any person under the age of 18 years of age.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  An area to which the public is invited or in which the public
is permitted, including but not limited to any right-of-way, mall or shopping
center, park, playground and any other property owned by the city, any school
district or any park district.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAYS.  Open displays of tobacco products and point-of-sale
tobacco promotional products that the public has access to without intervention
of a store employee.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS.  Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco products
   VENDING MACHINE.  Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service
device, which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any form of payment,
dispenses tobacco products.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 119.02  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of selling
cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any form in the city, without first having
obtained a license so to do. Written application for that purpose shall be made
in the manner provided in
Chapter 110; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be held to authorize
the sale or giving away of cigarettes containing opium, morphine, jimpson weed,
belladonna, strychina, cocaine, marijuana or any other deleterious or poisonous
drug or drugs; such license shall authorize the person or corporation therein
named to expose for sale, give away, sell or offer for sale cigarettes, cigars
or tobacco in any form at the place designated therein and there only.
   (B)   The fee for such license shall be $25 per annum.
   (C)   A tobacco retail license is non-transferable, except a new license
will be issued to a tobacco retailer who changes location.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.03  NUMBER OF TOBACCO VENDORS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be no more than 30 licensed tobacco vendors in the
city at any point in time.
      (2)   Licenses will be issued in the order that applications are
received.
   (B)   License will cease to be issued at the time that 30 licenses have been
issued and will not be issued again until the number of licensed vendors is
below 30 due to revocation of a vendor’s license or failure of a vendor to
renew a license.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 119.04  PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away
or deliver tobacco products to any person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   No person or corporation shall expose for sale, sell or offer for sale
or give, to any person or corporation, directly or indirectly, within the city,
any cigarette or cigarettes containing opium, morphine, jimpson weed,
belladonna, stychina, cocaine, marijuana, or any other deleterious or poisonous
drug or drugs.
   (C)   No person or corporation shall sell or furnish any cigarettes, cigars
or tobacco in any form to any minor under 16 years of age except upon the
written order of a parent or guardian of such minor.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.05  WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Signs informing the public of the age-of-sale restriction shall
be posted by every licensee at or near display of tobacco products and on or
upon every vending machine, which offers tobacco products for sale.
      (2)   Each sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
      “THE SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS UNDER
EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A SALE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.”
      (3)   The text of the signs must be in red letters on a white background
and the letters must be at least  inch in height.
   (B)   (1)   In addition, no person may sell or offer to sell cigarettes at
retail, or sell cigarettes at retail using a cigarette vending machine, unless
a sign is posted in a conspicuous place with the following message:
      “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: SMOKING BY PREGNANT WOMEN MAY RESULT IN FETAL
INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH, AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT.”
      (2)   The sign shall be printed on white cards in red letters at least 
inch in height.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 119.06  IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   No licensee shall sell or permit to be sold cigarettes or other tobacco
products to an individual appearing younger than the age of 27 without
requesting and examining photographic identification establishing the
purchaser’s age as 18 years of age or greater.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.07  MINIMUM AGE TO PURCHASE TOBACCO.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to purchase
tobacco products of the license to engage, employee or permit any person under
18 years of age to sell tobacco products on any vendor’s premises.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.08  PROXIMITY OF CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give-away or
deliver tobacco products within 100 feet of any school, child care facility or
other building used for educational or recreational purposes by persons under
18 years of age.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.09  SAMPLES AND FREE DISTRIBUTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly distribute or furnish without charge or at normal
charge, or cause to be furnished without charge or at nominal charge,
cigarettes or other tobacco products, or coupons for cigarettes or other
tobacco products, in any store or public place or at any event open to the
public.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.10  OUT-OF-PACKAGE SALES.
   It is unlawful to sell cigarettes out of the manufacturer’s package with
required health warnings.  It is unlawful to sell cigarettes individually or in
packages of fewer than 20 cigarettes per package.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.11  VENDOR-ASSISTED SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, person, business or tobacco retailer
to sell, permit to be sold, or offer for sale any tobacco product by means of
self-service displays or any other means other than vendor-assisted sales.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.12  RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Every act of omission of any nature constituting a violation of any
provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of the
licensee.
   (B)   The licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if the act or
omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 119.13  NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or customer because
the employee, applicant or customer reported violations of any provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.14  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be suspended or revoked for any violation of this
chapter after notice and opportunity to be heard as follows.
      (1)   In case of the first violation, the license shall be suspended for
not less than 30 consecutive business days nor more than three months from the
date of suspension.
      (2)   In the case of a second violation, the license shall be suspended
for not less than six months nor more than 12 months from the date of
suspension.
      (3)   In the case of a third violation, the license shall be revoked. 
All tobacco merchandise shall be removed from all areas accessible to the
public.
   (B)   The Mayor shall initiate enforcement against license holders who
violate any provision of this chapter and shall conduct hearings upon the
license-holder’s request.  The Mayor and the Police Department shall have the
authority to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Any vendor found to have violated any of the provisions of this
chapter shall pay to the city costs of the hearing on the violation.
      (2)   Costs may include, but not be limited to court reporter’s fees, the
cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all other miscellaneous
expenses incurred by the city or a lesser sum as the Mayor may allow.
   (D)   (1)   The vendor shall pay the costs to the city within 30 days of
notification of the costs.
      (2)   Failure to pay the costs within 30 days of notification is a
violation of this chapter and may cause the levy of an additional fine.
(Ord. 1564, passed 10-9-2001)
§ 119.15  INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer and he or she is hereby
authorized and empowered from time to time to inspect and examine all places
where cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any form are licensed to be sold within
the city with a view of ascertaining whether the laws of the state and the
ordinances of the city in relation to cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any
form, are being complied with at such places, amid it shall be his or her duty
to cause all such laws and ordinances to be vigorously enforced.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003; Am. Ord. 1636, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 119.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, association, partnership or corporation who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be fined for the first offense not more
than $200, not more than $400 for the second offense in a 12-month period, and
not more than $600 for the third or any subsequent offense in a 12-month
period.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
119.04(B) shall be fined not less than $25 and not more than $100.
      (2)   Any person or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
119.04(C) shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who shall hereafter keep for sale, or who shall sell, or
offer to sell any cigarettes, cigars or tobacco in any form, at any place
within the city, without first having procured a license as above provided,
shall be fined not less than $25 and not exceeding $200 for the first offense,
and a further penalty of $25 for each day such person persists in such
violation after a conviction for the first offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003; Am. Ord. 1634, passed 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 120:  JUNK AND SECOND-HAND DEALERS
Section
General Provisions
   
120.01   License required
   
120.02   Consent to property owners
   
120.03   License fee; term
   
120.04   Application
   
120.05   Investigation; approval; bond
   
120.06   Denial of application
   
120.07   Revocation of license
   
120.08   Inspection
   
120.09   Breaking up of certain equipment prohibited
   
120.10   Purchase from intoxicated persons
   
120.11   Lost and stolen articles
Specific Business License Provisions
   
120.20   Pawnbrokers
   
120.21   Scavengers
   
120.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 120.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in, operate, maintain or
carry on the business of a junk dealer, within the limits of the city, or keep,
operate or maintain therein any store, shop or yard, for the purchase, sale,
barter and exchanges dealing in, or storage of junk, rags, scrap metal, bottles
and any second-hand article whatever, without first having obtained a license
so to do.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation which operates and maintains a
business of purchasing, trading, dealing in or storing of motor vehicles for
the ultimate purpose of wrecking or junking the same, or of selling, trading or
dealing in parts of the motor vehicles, shall be included and classed as a junk
dealer under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.02  CONSENT OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   It shall be and is hereby made unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to locate, build, construct, keep, conduct, operate or maintain a junk yard or
junk store, either wholesale or retail, in the city, within 300 feet of any
church, hospital, public or parochial school, or the ground thereof; nor shall
either a junk yard or junk shop be built, constructed, kept, conducted,
operated or maintained on any site where two-thirds of the buildings within a
radius of 300 feet of the proposed site are used exclusively for residence and
retail store purposes or used exclusively for residence purposes, without the
written consent of the majority of the property owners according to the
frontage within a radius of 300 feet of the proposed site of the junk shop or
junk yard, and obtaining a license from the city therefor.  No license shall be
issued unless the petition shall have the signature of owners of the 150 feet
of property immediately adjacent to the site on all sides.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955) 
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.03  LICENSE FEE; TERM.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a license under the provisions of this
chapter shall be $150 and it shall be paid at the time of the filing of the
application for a license.  The official licensing year shall begin on May 1 of
each year and end on April 30 of the next succeeding calendar year.  All
licenses shall expire on April 30, in each calendar year.
   (B)   The license fee herein above provided for shall be reduced in
proportion to the number of full calendar months which have expired in the
official license year prior to the issuance of the license, provided that the
full license fee shall be charged and paid for any license issued during the
first three months of the license year.
   (C)   No license issued hereunder shall be assignable or transferrable, nor
so construed as to apply to any other location or premises than those described
in the license, nor shall any person, firm or corporation be authorized to act
or do business under the license other than the person, firm or corporation to
whom it was granted.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.04  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall make a written application therefor and file
the same with the City Clerk, specifying the particular place where the junk
yard, junk store or junk shop is to be located; a statement to the effect that
the proposed site for the junk yard, junk store or junk shop does not conflict
with the provisions of §
120.02 and that all of the provisions of §
120.02 have been complied with.
   (B)   The written consent of the property owners provided for in §
120.02 shall be attached to aid included as part of the application.
   (C)   Upon the application being filed with the City Clerk, accompanied by
the license fee herein provided for, the City Clerk shall forthwith transmit
and forward the application to the Mayor.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.05  INVESTIGATION; APPROVAL; BOND.
   (A)   The Mayor, upon receipt of such application from the City Clerk, shall
immediately cause an investigation to be made into the character of the
applicant and of the premises named and described in the application for the
purpose of determining the fitness and suitability of the premises for the
conduct of the business from a public health and public safety standpoint.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate any officer or employee of the city to make
the investigation.  The officer or employee making investigation shall make a
report to the Mayor within five days giving the result of the investigation,
favorable or unfavorable.  If the investigation discloses by satisfactory
evidence that the applicant or applicants or its chief officer, if the
applicant is a corporation, is or are of good character, that the premises
where the business is to be carried on are proper and suitable from a public
health and safety standpoint, and that all the provisions of this chapter have
been complied with, the Mayor shall endorse his or her approval thereon.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor shall immediately notify the applicant of his or her
approval.  The applicant shall thereupon, within ten days, execute a bond with
at least two good and sufficient sureties, or by a recognized and qualified
bonding company, to the city, in the sum of $2,000, conditioned upon the
faithful observance of all of the ordinances of the city, now or hereafter
enacted during the continuance of the license, and any person aggrieved by the
acts of any licensee hereunder may sue upon the bond and recover the damages as
he or she shows himself or herself entitled to.
      (2)   If the bond furnished by applicant and the sureties thereon is good
and sufficient and in proper legal form the Mayor shall approve the same, and
the bond, when so approved, together with the application for a license
hereunder endorsed as approved by the Mayor shall be, by him or her, returned
to the office of the City Clerk.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall thereupon issue a license to the applicant for
the purpose and time specified.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.06  DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Whenever any application for a license, as provided for by this
chapter, is denied by the Mayor, or whenever the Mayor revokes any license
previously granted, the applicant or licensee  as the case may be, shall have
the right to appeal to the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The appeal may be taken by filing a notice in writing of the
intention and desire so to appeal with the City Clerk within ten days of the
time the application is refused or license revoked and notice of the action is
given to the applicant or licensee.
      (2)   The notice of appeal shall operate to stay any revocation of
license.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to consider and determine the
appeal at its next regular meeting after the same is filed, and its action upon
the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.07  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license granted under the provisions of this chapter may be
revoked at any time, upon written notice by the Mayor or by the City Council,
when it shall appear to his or their satisfaction that the licensee has failed
to pay to the city any penalty, fine, debt or liability whatever or has failed
to comply with the provisions of any ordinance of the city or the laws of the
state, applicable to the person, business or place so licensed.
   (B)   The revocation may be in addition to any fine that may be imposed.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.08  INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see to the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter, by making an inspection of the premises at
least once every month, and if any of the provisions of this chapter or of any
of the ordinances of the city are being violated, it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to order the licensee to immediately comply with the provisions
of the ordinances, and upon a failure of the licensee to do so within 12 hours,
the Chief of Police shall report the same to the Mayor for further action.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to be inspected to admit thereto for the purpose of making the
inspection the Chief of Police or his or her representative, at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
§ 120.09  BREAKING UP OF CERTAIN EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the provisions of this chapter
to break up old boilers, motor vehicles, iron or other junk, by means of
hammers, sledges or other mechanical devices, in a manner as to disturb the
peace and quietude of the residents in the immediate vicinity of any junk shop
or junk yard, or to burn waste materials, or to do any other act or acts that
may disturb the peace and quietude of the residents or be detrimental to their
health or safety; nor shall any licensee place or store any article whatsoever
upon the sidewalks, parkways or streets of the city, or upon the property of
another, nor shall the licensee conduct the place of business in a manner that
the premises, or the sidewalks in front thereof, are put, kept or permitted to
remain in an unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955) 
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.10  PURCHASE FROM INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation licensed under the
provisions of this chapter to buy, barter or otherwise obtain any article from
any person who is intoxicated, or from any minor, without the written consent
of his or her parents or custodians.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955) 
Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.11  LOST AND STOLEN ARTICLES.
   Every licensee, under the provisions of this chapter, who shall receive or
be in possession of any goods, article or thing of value which may have been
lost or stolen shall upon demand produce the article or thing to any member of
the Police Department asking to examine the same.
(Ord. 693, passed 5-3-1955)
SPECIFIC BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
§ 120.20  PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   The Mayor may, from time to time, grant licenses to persons to
exercise or carry on the business of pawnbrokers within the city; and no person
shall exercise or carry on such business within the city without being duly
licensed as aforesaid.
   (B)   Any person who loans money on deposit or pledge personal property,
bonds,  notes, or other valuable things, or securities, or who deals in the
purchasing of personal property or chooses in action on condition of selling
the same back again at a stipulated price, is hereby defined and declared to be
a pawnbroker.
   (C)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a book in which shall be written in ink at
the time of each and every loan or taking of a pledge an accurate account and
description, in the English language, of all the goods, articles and other
things pawned or pledged, the amount of money, value or thing loaned thereon,
the time of pledging the same, the rate of interest to be paid on such loan,
and the name and residence of the person making such pawn or pledge. No entry
in such book shall be erased, mutilated or changed. The said book, as well as
every article or thing of value pawned or pledged, shall, at all reasonable
times, be open to the inspection of the Mayor or any member of the police force
authorized by the Mayor to inspect the same.
   (D)   No person licensed under this section shall take or receive in pawn or
purchase any article, property or effects from any minor, or claimed by any
minor.
   (E)   Every pawnbroker and landbroker or keeper of a loan office, shall at
the time of each loan, deliver to the person pawning or pledging any goods,
articles or thing, a memorandum or note signed by him or her containing the
substance of the entry required to be made in his or her book by the last
preceding section; and no charge shall be made or received by any pawnbroker or
loanbroker or keeper of a loan office for any such entry, memorandum or note.
   (F)   No person licensed under the provisions of this section shall take any
article in pawn from any person appearing to be intoxicated, nor from any
person known to be a notorious thief or to have been convicted of larceny or
burglary.
   (G)   The annual license fee for a license under the provisions of this
section shall be $25.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 120.21  SCAVENGERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business of scavenger, or collecting or removing of garbage or offal or
other filthy, noxious or unwholesome matter without first having secured a
license so to do. Applications for such licenses and the issuance thereof,
shall comply with the provisions of Ch. 110.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good
character, nor to any company whose officers are not persons of good character.
The City Health Officer shall inspect or cause to be inspected all vehicles
intended to be used by the applicant and shall not issue a license unless these
vehicles comply with the ordinances of the city.
   (C)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be $10, plus $5 for each
vehicle over one used in the business.
   (D)   All vehicles used for such purposes shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. The licensee shall carefully observe all the ordinances of
the city relating to health and nuisances and shall so remove and dispose of
garbage or other filthy, noxious, or unwholesome matter as not to annoy or be
offensive or obnoxious to persons, or dangerous, deleterious or prejudicial to
health. In removing, transporting and disposing of such material or substances,
the same shall be done in such a manner that no part thereof will drop, fall,
drip or remain on any premises, street, alley, public ground or place, and the
same shall be transported in liquid tight carts, wagons or other vehicles and
shall be so effectually closed as to confine the odors and smells arising
therefrom within said receptacle.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 120.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
CHAPTER 121:  FUEL SALES AND DISTRIBUTION
Section
Coal
   
121.01   License required
   
121.02   Definitions; interpretation
   
121.03   License fee
   
121.04   Scales of licensee
Filling Stations
   
121.15   Definitions
   
121.16   Filling stations; licensing
   
121.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Coal Yards, see §
127.03
   Filling Stations in garages and parking lots, see §
116.10
COAL
§ 121.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, association or corporation shall engage in the retail sale,
delivery or distribution of coal, briquets or coke for fuel purposes within the
limits of the city, either as a dealer or distributor, without first obtaining
a license from the city so to do or without complying with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 441, passed 10-11-1932) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 121.02  DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETAIL FUEL DEALER.
      (1)   Any person, firm, association or corporation selling coal, briquets
or coke in any quantity, direct to consumers, except where sold in carload lots
direct to consumer.
      (2)   This definition shall be deemed to include every person, firm,
association or corporation purchasing fuel in carload lots and reselling the
fuel to consumers, whether the resale be made from the car or elsewhere.
   RETAIL FUEL DISTRIBUTOR.  Every person, firm, association or corporation,
draying, trucking, hauling or otherwise delivering or distributing fuel for
fuel purposes from any source or supply, except that of a licensed fuel dealer,
and except such fuel as may be hauled for the personal consumption of the
person hauling.
(Ord. 441, passed 10-11-1932)
§ 121.03  LICENSE FEE.
   Each dealer or distributor selling or delivering fuel to consumers within
the limits of the city shall fist obtain a license from the city so to do,
which shall be obtained by paying to the of the city a yearly license fee of
$200, but which may be paid annually or semi-annually, at the option of the
retail distributor, and application made to the city for the issuing of the
license under the provisions of the general ordinances of the city providing
for the issuing of licenses.  The fee is expressly declared to be for the
purpose of defraying the cost of inspecting, emblems, issuance of licenses and
enforcement of the law pertaining to the licenses.
(Ord. 441, passed 10-11-1932)
§ 121.04  SCALES OF LICENSEE.
   The scales of licensees and the fuel handled by each licensee operating
under the provisions of this chapter shall, at all reasonable times, be subject
to the inspection of the inspector of weights and measures or by an inspector
of the quality of the fuel handled by a licensee.
(Ord. 441, passed 10-11-1932)
FILLING STATIONS
§ 121.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FILLING STATION.   Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or other
place within the city where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either
portable or stationary, and containing ether, carbon bisulphate, gasoline,
naphtha, benzol, hydro-carbon (gas drips), liquefied petroleum gas, acetone,
kerosene, turpentine, or other inflammable liquids having a flash point below
187 F, are kept or located for the purpose of selling, offering for sale, or
distributing any such liquids from such containing tank or tanks; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any place where
such inflammable liquids are kept or sold for medicinal purposes only.
§ 121.16  FILLING STATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall manage, conduct, operate or carry
on the business of a filling station without first having obtained a license
therefor, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The application for such license for the business of managing,
conducting, operating or carrying on a filling station shall conform to the
general provisions of this section relating to applications for licenses, and
shall specify the location of the building, structure, premises, enclosure, or
other place in which it is proposed to keep such filling station, and the
capacity or capacities in gallons of the container or containers, tank or
tanks.
   (C)   All filling stations shall be conducted and maintained in accordance
with the provisions of the ordinances of the city with regard to fire
prevention, and storage of inflammable liquids, and shall be inspected by the
Chief of Police, or by his or her duly authorized representative at least once
every three months.
   (D)   No license granted under the provisions of this section shall be
assigned or transferred to any other person, firm or corporation, nor shall any
such license authorize any person, firm or corporation other than the licensee
named therein to do business or act under such license.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit
smoking in any filling station.
   (F)   The annual license fee for each filling station shall be as follows:
for any station having three tanks or less $25; for each additional tank over
three, $10.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 121.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense;
and each day that any violation of this section shall occur shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 122:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
122.001   General amusements; performances and the like
   
122.002   Billiard and pool tables, bowling alleys and shooting galleries
   
122.003   Clairvoyants, palmists and fortune tellers
   
122.004   Public dance halls and public dances
Raffles
   
122.015   Definitions
   
122.016   Licensing
   
122.017   Application
   
122.018   Limitations
   
122.019   Conduct of raffles
   
122.020   Raffle Manager; bond
   
122.021   Records
   
122.022   Ineligibility
   
122.023   Fee
Coin-Operated Devices
   
122.035   License required
   
122.036   Annual license fee
   
122.037   Permit fee
   
122.038   Application; investigation
   
122.039   List of all vending machines
   
122.040   Unlawful sale of food and drink
   
122.041   Violation; procedure
Mechanical Music Devices
   
122.055   Definitions
   
122.056   License required
   
122.057   Application; fee
   
122.058   Description of machines
   
122.059   License not transferable
   
122.060   Location requirements
   
122.061   Gambling prohibited
   
122.062   Inspection
Gaming Terminals
   
122.075   Definitions
   
122.076   Violations
   
122.077   Licenses
   
122.078   Location restrictions
   
122.079   Funds
   
122.080   Push Tax
 
   
122.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 122.001  GENERAL AMUSEMENTS; PERFORMANCES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall give, conduct, manage, produce,
present, exhibit or offer for gain or profit, where money is charged directly
or indirectly for admission to see, hear or operate the same, any theatrical,
dramatic, operatic or variety performance, circus, carnival, menagerie, show or
other amusement, moving picture show or other exhibition, or any concert or
other musical or minstrel entertainment, lecture, scientific demonstration,
performance of any feats of jugglery, sleight of hand, tricks of Legerdemain or
tricks of any kind, or any exhibition of natural or artificial curiosities or
any panorama show or device, tests of strength of persons, physical endurance
contents, wrestling and boxing or pugilistic contacts, or conduct a skating
rink, within the city, without first having obtained a license so to do.  The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any public entertainment given by
persons not engaged in the giving of the entertainments as a business, nor for
personal gain, the proceeds of which are for the benefit of any religious,
charitable, benevolent or educational institution located in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to hold, conduct, give, exhibit or perform any
immoral, immodest or indecent theatrical or other exhibition, show or amusement
under any license issued under the term of this section.  It shall be the duty
of every person, firm or corporation licensed hereunder to keep and preserve or
cause to be kept and preserved, good order and conduct in and about the place
for which a license is granted.
   (C)   In order that the fee to be paid for any license may be fixed in a
just and equitable manner, all theatricals, exhibitions, shows or amusements
herein above mentioned are divided into classes as set by the city.
   (D)   The owner of any moving picture theater may take out a license for the
period of a year and persons obtaining a license under this section shall be
exempt from the payment of the license fee provided for by the city.
   (E)   No gaming, raffle, lottery or chance gift and distribution of money or
articles of value shall be connected with or be allowed by any person obtaining
a license under the provisions of this section or in any way permitted or held
out as an indictment to visitors.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owner, licensee, manager or person in
charge or control of any hall, place, theater or skating rink, wherein an
amusement is being conducted, at all times during any performance,
entertainment or exhibition, to keep all aisles and passageways free and
unobstructed and to have all doors leading to or from the same hung so as to
open out therefrom.  It shall be the duty of all members of the Police
Department to see that the provisions of this section are strictly enforced
and, in case of violation thereof, forthwith to clear obstructed aisles or
passageways or lobbies and to arrest the offender and offenders.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.002  BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES, BOWLING ALLEYS AND SHOOTING GALLERIES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall, within the city, keep for public
use or let for hire, gain or profit, any pin ball alley, bowling alley,
shooting gallery, any billiard table pool table, pigeon-hole table, bagatelle
table, or any other tables or implements kept for a similar purpose in any
place or public resort, without first having obtained a license so to do.
   (B)   No such alley, gallery or table shall be used by or let or hired to
any minor, nor any minor allowed to frequent the premises where the same is
kept, without the consent of his or her parent or guardian, nor by any
intoxicated person, nor any such person allowed to frequent or remain in said
premises nor any gambling allowed in or upon said premises, and said premises
shall at all times be kept in an orderly and well-governed condition.
   (C)   Any member of the Police Department or the Mayor shall have free
access to all parts of any premises used for a pool or billiard room at all
reasonable hours for the purpose of making inspections to see to the
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
   (D)   A license for any of the purposes named in division (A) hereof may be
granted upon the payment by the applicant of the following annual license fee:
for each billiard table or pool table, $10; for each bagatelle table, pigeon-
hole table or other like table, $5 for each pin ball or bowling alley, the sum
of $10 per year and the additional sum of $5 for each alley in excess of two;
for each shooting gallery and all other games not otherwise enumerated herein,
in the sum of $25.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.003  CLAIRVOYANTS, PALMISTS AND FORTUNE TELLERS.
   (A)   No person or persons in this city shall conduct, manage or pursue the
avocation or business of clairvoyant, astrologist, palmist, fortune teller,
medium, or any like avocation, or pursue for gain, or advertise the same in any
manner; whether by signs, in print, or otherwise, without first having obtained
a license therefor.
   (B)   Such license may be issued by the Mayor, upon payment of a license fee
of $2 per day; or $50 per month, provided that no license shall be issued for a
term less than ten days.
   (C)   The Mayor may refuse to grant any such license or revoke the same when
granted, when he or she is satisfied that such avocation is conducted for
immoral or improper purposes or in an immoral, illegal or improper manner.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.004  PUBLIC DANCE HALLS AND PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to hold or conduct any public dance or to hold or
conduct classes in dancing, or to give instructions in dancing for hire, in any
hall within the limits of the city until the hall or place in which the same
may be held shall first have been duly licensed as a public dance hall. The
annual license fee payable for each license granted hereunder shall be $25.
   (B)   No license for a public dance hall shall be issued until it shall be
found that the place for which it is issued complies with and conforms to all
laws, ordinances, health and fire regulations applicable, thereto, and is
properly ventilated and supplied with separate and sufficient toilet
conveniences for each sex, and is a safe and proper place for the purpose for
which it shall be used. Every person to whom a dance hall license is issued
shall post the same in a conspicuous place in the dance hall governed by such
license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a dance hall license is
issued, or for any person conducting a public dance hall or dancing class under
license from the city, to allow or permit in any dance hall any indecent act to
be committed or any disorder or conduct of a gross, violent or vulgar
character. Any member of the Police Department or other properly constituted
city authority shall be permitted to have access to all public dances and
public dance halls at all times and shall have the power and it shall be the
duty of each of them to cause any dance hall to be vacated whenever any
provision of this section or of any ordinance, rule or regulation concerning
dance halls has been or is being violated, or wherein any ordinance, regulation
or law of any character shall be violated, or whenever any indecent act shall
be committed or when any disorder or conduct of a gross, violent, or vulgar
character shall take place therein.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to include any
dance, entertainment, carnival or exhibition given under the auspices of any
church, lodge, fraternal order, or to any dance, entertainment, carnival or
exhibition the proceeds of which are donated to charity.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.015  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENABLING ACT.  Illinois Public Act Number 81-1365 entitled, “An Act to
Provide for Licensing and Regulating Certain Games of Chance and Amending
Certain Acts Herein Named, as currently set forth in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§
28-1 et seq.”
   NET PROCEEDS.  The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, license fees as provided herein and other
reasonable operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
   RAFFLE.  A form of lottery, as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2,
conducted by an organization licensed under the terms of this subchapter, in
which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; or
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part of
persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.016  LICENSING.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
within the city, without first having obtained a license therefor as provided
in this subchapter.
      (2)   A license hereunder may be issued only to bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a license and which have had during that entire five-year period a bona
fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms, “non-profit,”
“charitable,” “educational,” “religious,” “fraternal,” “veterans” and “labor,”
all referring to organizations and/or institutions established for such
purposes, shall have the same meanings as are given to the terms, pursuant to
Section 2(b) of the Enabling Act.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.017  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any firm, person or organization applying for a raffle license
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall file a written application
therefor in the office of the City Clerk.  The application shall be in writing
and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The area or areas within the city in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued;
      (2)   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (3)   The time of determination of winning chances;
      (4)   The location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined; and
      (5)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization.
   (B)   Any application for a raffle license, filed pursuant hereto, shall be
acted upon by the city within 30 days from the date on which it is filed.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.018  LIMITATIONS.
   The following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and chances
in connection with any raffle conducted within the city.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed $25,000.
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $25,000.
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $100.
   (D)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 365 days.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.019  CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The following limitations shall apply in respect to the conduct of raffles
within the city.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this subchapter.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   (G)   Any license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for only
one raffle and the same may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the
terms of this subchapter or the Enabling Act.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.020  RAFFLE MANAGER; BOND.
   (A)   All operation of and the conduct of raffles within the city shall be
under the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the
organization.  The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum as set by
Council in favor of the organization conditioned upon the honesty of the
manager in the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   The terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the city by filing the same with the office of the City Clerk not
less than 30 days prior to the cancellation of the bond.  The City Council may
waive this bond requirement by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
members of the Council and provided further that a waiver provision as to the
bond shall be contained in the license issued to the applicant organization,
pursuant to this subchapter; provided however, and notwithstanding
any contrary provision contained herein, a license containing the bond waiver
provisions shall be granted only by the unanimous vote of the members of the
licensed organization.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.021  RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined.  All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction and the recipient. 
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   (B)   Each organization conducting raffles pursuant to this subchapter shall
have separate records of each raffle conducted pursuant hereto.  The persons
who account for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles on behalf of the organization shall not be the same person who accounts
for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the city, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this
section.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years
and organizations shall make available their record relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.022  INELIGIBILITY.
   Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein above contained, the following
are ineligible for any license under this subchapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person, defined in divisions (A),
(B) or (C) above, has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in which a
person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person, defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above, is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
   (F)   Any organization in which a person, defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above, is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle, as
defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
§ 122.023  FEE.
   Each application for a raffle license filed pursuant to this subchapter
shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of $5 to be paid at the time
of filing.
(Ord. 1114, passed 6-16-1987)
COIN-OPERATED DEVICES
§ 122.035  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate, maintain or expose for use any vending
machine dispensing any item, including, but not limited to cigarette vending
machines, food or beverage vending machines and/or dispensers of sanitary
products, without first complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.036  ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation who is an operator of one or more vending
machines in the city, who by contract, agreement or ownership takes
responsibility for furnishing, installing, servicing, operating or maintaining
one or more vending machines shall first make application with the City Clerk
for a vending machine operator’s license.  The annual license fee shall be
$250, payable on the date of application and due annually thereafter on the
anniversary date of the application.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 122.037  PERMIT FEE.
   The annual permit fee for vending machines shall be $10  for each machine.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 122.038  APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the City Inspector shall investigate
the machine location to determine compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   A numbered permit shall be issued to the applicant by the City Clerk
after compliance by the operator with the applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The permit shall be conspicuously displayed on each vending machine
for which a license fee has been paid and shall not be transferable.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 122.039  LIST OF ALL VENDING MACHINES.
   Each operator of vending machines shall furnish a list of all vending
machines operated by him or her showing the location in the city before an
operator’s license or any vending machine permit is issued.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)
§ 122.040  UNLAWFUL SALE OF FOOD AND DRINK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to sell, offer or expose
for sale, through vending machines, or to have in possession with intent to
sell therefrom any food, beverage or ingredient which is adulterated or
misbranded.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.041  VIOLATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the City Inspector discovers a violation of any
provision of this subchapter, he or she shall notify the operator concerned.
      (2)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the condition found and state which section of this
subchapter is violated by the condition;
         (b)   Provide a specific and reasonable period of time for the
correction of the condition; and
         (c)   State that an opportunity for a hearing on inspection findings
will be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the City
Inspector within ten days of receipt of the notice.
      (3)   The City Inspector may advise the operator in writing that unless
the violations are corrected within the specified period of time, any license
or permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be suspended or
revoked, in accordance with provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   After an opportunity for a hearing and following the procedures in
§
122.038, an operator’s license or permit may be temporarily suspended, for each
violation, for one to 30 days, by the City Inspector upon violation by the
permit holder of any of the provisions of this subchapter or may be revoked
upon serious or repeated violation of the provisions.
      (5)   Any operator whose license or permit has been suspended may, at any
time, make application for the reinstatement of the license or permit.  Within
ten days after the receipt of a written application, accompanied by, or
including, a statement signed by the operator to the effect that the violated
term or terms of this subchapter have been complied with, the City Inspector
shall make a reinspection.  If the applicant is again complying with the terms
of this subchapter, the license or permit may be reinstated by the City
Inspector.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter,
whenever the City Inspector finds grossly unsanitary or other conditions
involving the operation of any vending machine which, in his or her opinion,
involves a substantial hazard to the public health, he or she may, without
notice or hearing, issue a written order to the operator citing the existence
of the condition and specifying corrective action to be taken and, if deemed
necessary, requiring immediate discontinuance of operation.
      (2)   The order shall be effective immediately and shall apply only to
the vending machine involved.  Any operator to whom the order is issued shall
comply therewith, but upon petition to the City Inspector, shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible.  When necessary corrective action has been taken
and on the request of the operator, the City Inspector shall make a
reinspection to determine whether operations may be resumed.
      (3)   After any hearing held under the provisions of this subchapter, the
City Inspector shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order considered
in the hearing.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-9-1973)
MECHANICAL MUSIC DEVICES
§ 122.055  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT GAME.  Any device by which any game of any kind is
played in, or by means of any type of mechanical machine which is operated by
depositing therein a coin or token.
   MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICE.  Any device for producing, reproducing or playing
musical selections or numbers, either vocal or instrumental, or both, which is
operated by depositing therein a coin or token.  It shall also mean and include
any device which is operated mechanically to render definite musical selections
or numbers selected by the operators or others, as aforesaid, after the direct
or indirect payment therefor.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)
§ 122.056  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall possess, keep, operate or maintain or
permit to be operated, for hire or profit, directly or indirectly, any
mechanical musical device or automatic amusement game, commonly known as
pinball, bagatelle or similar device or any automatic amusement game of any
description, as defined in § 122.55, in or upon any premises or place of
business under his, her or its control and open to the public or any group or
class thereof, within the city, without first having applied for and received a
license for each device or game as herein provided.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.057  APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, desiring a license for any machine or
device hereunder shall file a written application therefor, prior to the
installation of any machine with the City Clerk on a form to be provided by the
Clerk.  The application shall state:
      (1)   The name, residence address of the proprietor and the business
location where the machine or device is to be installed;
      (2)   The type of machine sought to be licensed;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation owning the
machine or device; and
      (4)   The nature of the business conducted on the premises in which the
machine is to be installed.
   (B)   Every application shall be accompanied by a license fee of $10 for
each machine or device to be licensed.  Licenses granted hereunder shall be for
one year and shall expire on April 30 of each year hereafter and may be renewed
annually on or before April 30 by the filing with the City Clerk a written
application for renewal stating the requirements as set forth in division (A)
above, accompanied by the license fee for each renewal.  The license fee for
any license issued in any calendar year after November l shall be one-half of
the annual license fee.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)
§ 122.058  DESCRIPTION OF MACHINES.
   Every license issued hereunder shall describe with sufficient detail for
identification purposes the machine for which it is issued and shall be placed
in a conspicuous place near the machine so that the license shall be easily and
quickly readable and the machine identified, and no device or a machine shall
be played, operated, maintained or used in the premises unless and until this
provision is complied with. Licenses may be summarily revoked by the Mayor for
a violation of this or any other provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)
§ 122.059  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Licenses issued hereunder may be transferred from one device or machine to
another so long as the device or machine is similar to the machine originally
licensed.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)
§ 122.060  LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No machine shall be licensed or shall be placed, maintained, operated or
used in or upon any premises, any entrance to which is within 150 feet of any
entrance to a school, public playground or church, the distance to be measured
along the street line.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.061  GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No mechanical musical device or automatic amusement game shall be used,
operated or maintained in a manner as to constitute or permit gambling in
connection therewith, or in a manner as to create a disturbance to the public
or to become or create public nuisances and no licensee hereunder shall offer
any prize or other reward to any person playing any machine other than free
games on the machine.  The police may seize any machine operated in violation
of this section and the same may be held by the Police Department as evidence
to be used in any suit filed for the a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)  Penalty, see §
122.999
§ 122.062  INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to inspect and examine at least
once every 60 days, each mechanical musical device or automatic amusement game,
licensed hereunder, with the view of ascertaining whether the laws of the state
and the ordinances of the city and the provisions of this subchapter are
complied with in respect to the operation and keeping of the devices and to see
that the same is not being used for illegal purposes.
(Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946)
GAMING TERMINALS
§ 122.075  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions apply:
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. A licensed establishment is a licensed retail
establishment where alcoholic liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise
approved for sale pursuant to a Class A or Class C liquor license.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. A licensed fraternal establishment is a
location where a fraternal organization that derives its charter from its
national parent organization that derives its charter from its national parent
organization regularly meets and that is a not for profit organization so
recognized as such by the state of Illinois and the Internal Revenue Service,
under Section 501(c)8)(10) or (19), or the equivalent of those sections in the
Internal Revenue Codes as now or as hereafter amended.
   LICENSED VETERAN'S ESTABLISHMENT. A licensed veteran's establishment is a
location where a qualified veteran organization that holds a charter from its
national parent organization regularly meets, and is a not for profit
organizations so recognized as such by the State of Illinois and the Internal
Revenue Service, under Section 501(c)(8)(10) or (19), or the equivalent of
those sections in the Internal Revenue Code as now or as hereafter amended.
   TERMINAL OPERATOR. A terminal operator is an individual, partnership,
corporation, or limited liability company, licensed to own, service, and
maintain video gaming terminals for placement in licensed establishments,
licensed fraternal establishments, or licensed veteran's establishments.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. A video gaming terminal is an electronic video gaming
machine that plays or simulates the play of a video game upon the insertion of
cash and is licensed and authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board. Authorized
video gaming terminal games include but are not limited to, video poker,
lineup, blackjack, as licensed and authorized by the Illinois Gaming Board. The
video gaming terminal must utilize a video display and microprocessors in which
the player may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. A
terminal or game that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens, or that is for
amusement purposes only, is not a video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 1811, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 122.076  VIOLATIONS.
   It is a violation of this section, and prohibited by this chapter, to
authorize, permit, maintain, or play at a video gaming terminal, except where a
video gaming terminal and the location, have a valid and current annual Class A
or Class C liquor license issued by the City of Madison and where said terminal
is otherwise compliant with Illinois Gaming Board regulations and compliant
with ILCS Ch. 230, Act 50, §§ 5 et seq.
(Ord. 1811, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 122.077  LICENSES.
   (A)   Video gaming licenses to operate a video gaming location are limited
to qualified licensed establishments, and licensed veteran's establishments.
Further requirements to qualify for or renew an annual license for a licensed
video gaming location, include but are not limited to each of the following:
      (1)   Timely payment of any and all debts or claims due to the city
including but not limited to a $250 annual license fee per video gaming
terminal;
      (2)   Compliance with all requirements of city ordinances and state law,
including but not limited to the Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 5
et seq., as now or as hereafter amended; and
      (3)   Qualification for an possession of a Class A or Class C liquor
license for the designated gaming location.
   (B)   A person may not own, maintain, or place a video gaming terminal in a
licensed establishment, unless he or she possesses a valid and current annual
terminal operator's licenses issued by the State of Illinois an issued by the
city. Requirements for qualifications to obtain an annual terminal operator's
license from the city include the following:
      (1)   Timely payment to the city fo any and all debts or claims due to
the city, including but not limited to a $1,000 annual license fee per terminal
operator per location; and
      (2)   Compliance with all requirements of city ordinance and state law,
including but not limited to the Illinois Video Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act
40, § 5, as now or as hereafter amended/
(Ord. 1811, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 122.078  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No new licensed establishment, new licensed fraternal establishment, or new
licensed veteran's establishment, shall be located:
   (A)   Within 100 feet of a school or a place of worship as defined by the
Religious Corporation Act, unless the school or place of worship moves to or is
established within the restricted area after a license has issued to that
specific licensed establishment, or licensed veteran's establishment, under the
City of Madison Ordinances. For purposes of this section, a SCHOOL means any
elementary or secondary public school, or elementary or secondary private
school, registered with or recognized by the Illinois State Board of Education;
and
   (B)   No new licensed establishment, new licensed fraternal establishment,
or new licensed veteran's establishment, shall be located within 200 feet of
any portion of a public housing complex, public housing project, or public
housing residence.
(Ord. 1811, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 122.079  FUNDS.
   The Office of the Treasurer of the city is authorized and directed to take
all lawful steps necessary to report to and seek distributions from the
Illinois State Local Government Video Gamin Distributive Fund, per ILCS Ch.
230, Act 40, § 60(b), as now or as hereafter amended. The Office of the
Treasurer shall report no less often than annually to the City Council
concerning distributions from the fund. All such funds received from the Local
Government Video Gaming Distributive Fund, and all license fees collected under
this section, shall deposited into the general purposes accounts for the city
and may be used for any general purposes authorized the city.
(Ord. 1811, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 122.080  PUSH TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AMUSEMENT.
         (a)   Any theatrical, dramatic, musical or spectacular performance,
motion picture show, flower, poultry or animal show, animal act, circus, rodeo,
athletic contest, sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment,
including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, skating, dancing,
racing, swimming, or riding on animals or vehicles, baseball, basketball,
softball, football, tennis, golf, hockey, track and field games, bowling,
billiard and pool games.
         (b)   Any entertainment offered for public participation, including,
without being limited to, dancing, carnival, amusement park rides and games,
bowling, billiard and pool games, or any video gaming terminal.
      PERSON. Any natural individual that participates in an amusement,
including a firm, organization, society, foundation, institution, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
public or private corporation, receiver, executor, trustee or other
representative appointed by order of any court, or any other entity recognized
by law.
      PLAY. Each individual push of the video gaming terminal which initiates
the simulation provided by the video gaming terminal. Play shall not include
the push of individual wager amounts, selection of types of games on the video
gaming terminal or entry of any information or printing of winning receipts.
   (B)   Tax rate.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an amusement tax is
imposed upon any person who participates in the play of a video gaming terminal
that takes place within the jurisdiction boundaries of the city.
      (2)   The rate of tax shall be equal to $.01 per play on a video gaming
terminal.
      (3)   The terminal operator of a video gaming terminal may separately
itemize and charge each person who plays a video gaming terminal.
   (C)   Tax additional. The tax imposed in this chapter is in addition to all
other taxes imposed by the State of Illinois or any municipal corporation or
political subdivision thereof.
   (D)   Registration.
      (1)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal(s) located in
the city shall apply for registration as a tax collector with the city no later
than 30 days after commencing such business or 30 days after the effective date
of this section imposing the Push Tax, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   The application shall be submitted to the city on the forms
provided by the city and contain such information as reasonably required by the
city to impose, collect, and audit all amounts related to the Push Tax.
   (E)   Collection, payment, and accounting.
      (1)   It shall be the joint and several duty of every terminal operator
of a video gaming terminal(s) to secure from each person participating in the
play of a video gaming terminal the Push Tax imposed by this section.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, it shall be presumed that the amount
of the Push Tax imposed on each person, unless the taxpayer or tax collector
provides otherwise with books, records, or other documentary evidence, has been
collected from the person by the terminal operator.
      (3)   Push Tax payments accompanied by the tax returns prescribed by the
city shall be remitted to the city on or before the 20th day of the month
following the month in which payment for the Push Tax is made.
      (4)   Every terminal operator of a video gaming terminal to collect the
Push Tax by this section shall be considered a tax collector for the city. All
Push Tax amount collected shall be held by the terminal operator as trustee for
and on behalf of the city. The failure of the operator to collect the tax shall
not excuse or release the person from the obligation to pay the tax.
      (5)   The ultimate incidence of the Push Tax shall remain on the person
and shall never be shifted to the terminal operator.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, in order to
permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the city, no person shall be
entitled to a refund of, or credit for, the Push Tax imposed by the chapter
unless the person files a claim for a refund or credit within one year after
the date on which the Push Tax was paid or remitted to the city.
      (7)   The terminal operator of any video gaming terminal(s) shall be
subject to audit, inspection, and record keeping provisions of this Code.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful for any terminal operator and/or person to
prevent, hinder, or interfere with the city officials, employees, and/or agents
designed to discharge their respective duties in the performance and
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
      (9)   It is the duty of every terminal operator of a video gaming
terminal(s) to keep accurate and complete books and records to which the city's
officials, employees, and/or agents will at all times have full access.
   (F)   Rules and regulations; authorized. The city is authorized to adopt,
promulgate, and enforce any additional rules and regulations pertaining to the
interpretation, collection, administration, and enforcement of this section.
   (G)   Application of City Code. Any citation under this section may be in
addition to any other citations issued by the city under any and all applicable
sections of the City Code.
   (H)   Violations; penalties. It shall be a violation of this section for a
terminal operator to fail to file a report within the time prescribed in this
section.
      (1)   Report required. A terminal operator who falsely reports or fails
to report the amount of Push Tax due as required by this section shall be in
violation of this section and is subject to the suspension and/or revocation of
their terminal operator license. All payments not remitted when due shall be
paid together with a penalty assessment on the unpaid balance at a rate of 1.5%
per month.
      (2)   Suspension or revocation of license. The Local Liquor Commissioner
or his or her designee shall have the power to suspend for not more than 30
days or revoke any video gaming license issued under the provisions of this
chapter for cause, of if he or she determines that a terminal operator shall
have violated any of the provisions of this section, any of the statutes of the
state or any other valid ordinance or resolution enacted by the corporate
authorities of the city. However, no such license shall be revoked or suspended
except after the holding of a public hearing by the Local Liquor Commissioner
or his or her designee. Ten days' notice of the hearing shall be given to the
terminal operator. Alternatively, the terminal operator shall have the
opportunity to engage in a pre-hearing conference and agree to negotiate
penalties rather than proceed to a hearing.
      (3)   Fine imposed. In addition, any terminal operator violating the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of $250 for the first
offense, and $500 for the second offense and $750 for a third offense and
subject to revocation of any license to operate a video gaming terminal for the
third offense.
      (4)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation.
      (5)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any person to
knowingly furnish false or inaccurate information to the city.
(Ord. 1850, 4-28-2020)
§ 122.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
122.001 shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   Each and every day upon which any offense is committed or is
permitted to continue in violation of the provisions of §
122.001 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
122.035 through
122.041 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
122.055 through
122.062 shall upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10, nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   Each day of operation of any device in violation of the provisions
of §§ 1
122.055 through
122.062 shall constitute a separate offense and any material misrepresentation
on the application for license hereunder shall void any license subsequently
granted and subject the applicant to the penal provisions of §§
122.055 through
122.062 as of the date of the granting of the license.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
122.002 or
122.004 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 and not more
than $200 for each offense.
   (F)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
122.003 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $200 for
each offense, and each day such person operates without having first obtained a
license as is herein required, shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (G)   In addition to the penalties set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
hereafter, a violator of one or more of the terms of §§
122.075 et seq.  shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each
offense. Additional penalties include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   The City Liquor Commissioner is authorized to suspend, revoke, or
fine any license holder who violates any provision hereof or State of Illinois
laws with regard to this chapter.
      (2)   Revocation or suspension of a liquor licensed, video gaming
location license, video gaming terminal license, and terminal operator's
license, are authorized under this provision.
(Ord. 562, passed - -; Am. Ord. 598, passed 8-14-1946; Am. Ord. 883, passed 10-
9-1973; Am. Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003; Am. Ord. 18-14, passed 11-14-2017)
CHAPTER 123:  AUCTIONEERS
Section
   
123.01   Auctioneers
   
123.99   Penalty
§ 123.01  AUCTIONEERS.
   (A)   No person shall, within the corporate limits of the city, exercise the
calling of public auctioneer or sell any personal property at a public auction,
except such as may be sold under and by virtue of legal process, without a
license for that purpose, under penalty herein described.
   (B)   The licenses may be issued to any person of full age and good
character, upon the person giving bond in the sum of $200, with security to be
approved by the Mayor, conditioned for observance of all ordinances of the city
applicable to the business so licensed and upon his or her paying, to the City
Collector, the sum herein prescribed therefor.
   (C)   The license may be issued for a period of one day or one year.  The
applicant shall pay for the license as follows:
      (1)   One day:  $5.
      (2)   One year:  $25.
   (D)   No auctioneer shall fraudulently conspire with anyone to induce
bidders more than its true face value for any article offered for sale by him
or her or any artifice or collusion with any bidder or other person shall make
any fraudulent or unreal sale with intention to defraud or to deceive any party
bidding as to the value of any article offered for sale.
(Ord. 562, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 123.99
§ 123.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of §
123.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10, nor more
than $750.
(Ord. 562, passed - -)
CHAPTER 124:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
Maintenance Fees
   
124.01   Definitions
   
124.02   Registration
   
124.03   Maintenance fee
   
124.04   Collection, enforcement and administration
   
124.05   Compliance with other laws
   
124.06   Existing franchises and licenses
   
124.07   Waiver and fee implementation
   
124.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications Municipal Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, see ILCS
Ch. 35,  Act 635, §§ 1 et seq.
MAINTENANCE FEES
§ 124.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the city, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of the telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, or any other expense whatsoever.  In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within the city, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
termination point within the city and charges for that portion of the
interstate inter-office channel provided within the city.
         (a)   Charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office channel
provided in the city shall be determined by the retailer as follows:
            1.   For interstate inter-office channels having two channel
termination points, only one of which is in the city, 50% of the total charge
imposed; or
            2.   For interstate inter-office channels having more than two
channel termination points, one or more of which are in the city, an amount
equal to the total charge multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the number of channel termination points within the city and the denominator of
which is the total number of channel termination points.
         (b)   Prior to January 1, 2004, any method consistent with this
section or other method that reasonably apportions the total charges for
interstate inter-office channels among the states in which channel terminations
points are located shall be accepted as a reasonable method to determine the
charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office channel provided within
the state for that period.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
            1.   The fee imposed by this section;
            2.   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221
or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §§ 9-202, 9-221, 9-
222, and 9-222.1);
            3.   Amounts collected under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-17, the
Illinois Municipal Code;
            4.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act (ILCS
Ch. 35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.);
            5.   911 surcharges; or
            6.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the city;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content;  (The equipment includes,
but is not limited to the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement.)
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including the equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein the charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under Section 9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of the exemption and during the
period of time specified by the city;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering the services;
         (g)   Bad debts;  ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is
related to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise
deductible or excludable that has become worthless or  uncollectible, as
determined under applicable federal income tax standards.  If the portion of
the debt deemed to be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and
pay the tax on that portion during the reporting period in which the payment is
made.)
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the city.
         (j)   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if:
            1.   Those charges are aggregated with other charges for
telecommunications that are taxable;
            2.   Those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill
or invoice; and
            3.   The retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden or proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the city has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal city property that
is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not include
city buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they
are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE.  Any like term, any
retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse, other place of business or any agent or other representative
operating within the state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether the place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether the
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL.  The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent  corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one corporation to another corporation is not greater than the
gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not for
sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS.  The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received.  If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment, as defined by the location in
the state where bids are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  Messages or information transmitted through use of
local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph
services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange services, private line
services, specialized mobile radio services or any other transmission of
messages or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities.  Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall also include WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS, as hereinafter defined. 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the  information for purposes other than transmission.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by him or
her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end
communications.  Retailer access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of inter- company facilities and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision and used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for
resale.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable services
through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1954 (47
USC 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the city
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CFR 76.1550 et seq.) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER, RETAILER or CARRIER.  Every person engaged in
the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail, as defined in
this section.  The city may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of
business within the state, who, to the satisfaction of the city, furnishes
adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the fee.  When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of the retailer to pay the fee upon all of the
gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within the city.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  Cellular mobile telephone services, personal
wireless services, as defined in Section 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (P.L. 104-104), 42 USC S332(c)(7), as now or hereafter amended,
including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(ILCS Ch. 35, Act 635, § 10)  (Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 124.02  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider, as defined hereby, shall register
with the city within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter or
becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a form to be
provided by the city, provided, however, that any telecommunications retailer
that has filed a return pursuant to
§ 124.05(C) shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the city
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by
§ 124.04(C), as the case may be, to the city within 30 days from the date of
the occurrence of any charges in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the city.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 124.03  MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1.0% of all
gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses
within the city for telecommunications originating or received in the city.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the city infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the city by telecommunications retailers. 
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this subchapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set forth in §
124.04.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on municipal fee, see ILCS Ch. 35, Act 635, § 20
§ 124.04  COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the city infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the city, the infrastructure maintenance
fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the city not later
than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in which a bill is
issued to the customer; provided, however, that the telecommunications retailer
may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the city infrastructure maintenance
fee collected by it to reimburse itself for expenses incurred in accounting for
and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the city shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the City Comptroller,
which shall contain information as the City Comptroller may reasonably require.
   (D)   (1)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected
pursuant to this subchapter and any infrastructure maintenance fee collected by
the telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the city.
      (2)   The charge imposed under division (A) above by the
telecommunications retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall constitute a debt
of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who provides the services
until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the
original charge for the services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then the amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, on to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the City Comptroller may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for the
credit.  However, no claim for the credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless:
      (1)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the city within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      (2)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   Gross charges for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act
(ILCS Ch. 35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.);
      (2)   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      (3)   Gross charges for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in § 8-11-12 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
      (4)   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in § 2202 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch.
220, Act 5, §§ 9-202, 9-221, 9-222, and 9-222.1).
   (G)   The city shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the books
and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this subchapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
city for the city infrastructure maintenance fee.  Any underpayment of the
amount of the city infrastructure maintenance fee due to the city by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the city, plus 5% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs incurred by
the city in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 5% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit.  The sum shall be paid to
the city within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The City Comptroller, or his or her designee, may promulgate further
or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
124.02.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 124.05  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of- way, including standards relating to free standing
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of- way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 124.06  EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the city entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 124.07  WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The city hereby waives all fees, charges and other compensation that
may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the city by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing city franchise, license or
similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the city
imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.  This waiver
shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance fee,
provided for in this subchapter, is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the city
has a franchise or, in the alternative, by November 12, 1997, give notice along
with a certified copy of this subchapter to the State Municipal League for
inclusion in the League's group mailing of the required notice of the waiver.
   (C)   The city infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
subchapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the city provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the city has an existing franchise,
license or similar agreement that the city waives all compensation under the
existing franchise, license or similar agreement during such time as the fee is
subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the retailer and remitted to
the city.  The infrastructure maintenance fee shall apply to gross charges
billed on or after the effective date as established in the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
§ 124.99  PENALTY.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of
§§ 124.01 through
124.07 shall be subject to a fine not more than $750 for each offense.  A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1380, passed 10-7-1997)
CHAPTER 125:  ADVERTISING
Section
Billboards and Outdoor Advertising
   
125.01   Definitions
   
125.02   License required
   
125.03   License fees
   
125.04   Prohibited conduct
   
125.05   Identification required
   
125.06   Maintenance
Handbills
   
125.15   License required; fees
   
125.16   Copy to be filed
   
125.17   Prohibited conduct
   
125.99   Penalty
BILLBOARDS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
§ 125.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLBOARDS. Any billboard, fence, sign, banner, wall or structure erected
for advertising purposes or upon which any advertisement is shown or whereupon
any posts, bill, printing, painting device, or other advertising matter of any
kind, whatsoever, may be placed, stuck, tacked, posted, printed, pasted,
fastened or otherwise affixed. But this defini-display official notices issued
by any court, or any public office or posted by any public officer in the
performance of public duty, or to be used to display announcements of meetings
to be held upon premises whereon such billboards or bulletin boards are
displayed or used to advertise any business conducted on the premises where
such billboard or bulletin board is located. Nor shall it be held to include a
real estate sign advertising for sale or rent the property whereon it stands
provided, however, that said real estate sign shall exceed 20 square feet in
size.
  OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Advertising on any billboard, fence, sign, banner, wall
or structure erected for advertising purposes or otherwise, or the placing
thereof of any poster, bill, printing, painting device or any advertising
matter of any kind whatsoever, and the pasting, posting, painting, printing,
nailing or tacking, or otherwise fastening of any handbill, card, banner, sign,
poster, advertisement or notice of any kind upon any property or place of an
kind, character or description.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 125.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or carry on the business of
outdoor advertising or the business of the erection, use or maintenance of
billboards as defined in  §
125.01 hereof until after such person, firm or corporation shall in addition to
obtaining the license as provided for herein, have filed with the City Clerk of
the city, a bond in the sum of $2,000 with sureties to be approved by the
Mayor. The condition of such bond to be that such person, firm or corporation,
so engaged in the business of outdoor advertising or the business of the
erection, use or maintenance of billboards as defined in division (A) hereof
shall faithfully comply with all provisions of this section and shall further
save and keep the city, and its officials harmless from all damage, liability,
losses or judgments that may be claimed against the city by reason of the
negligent erection or negligent maintenance of any billboard or any outdoor
advertising structure as defined in §
125.01 hereof.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)  Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.03  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or carry on the
business of outdoor advertising or the business of the erection, use or
maintenance of billboards as defined in §
125.01 hereof without paying a license fee as hereinafter provided in this
section.
   (B)   The license fee imposed in this section shall be $25 per year.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.04  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, except a
public officer or employee in performance of a public duty, to paste, paint,
print, nail, tack or otherwise fasten any card, banner, hand bill, sign,
poster, or advertisement or notice of any kind or cause the same to be done on
any curbstone, lamp post, hydrant, bridge or tree upon a public street or
public property within the city, except as may be required by the ordinances of
the city, or the laws of the state or the United States. Any advertisement
prohibited by this section may be taken down, removed or destroyed by anyone.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall scatter, daub or leave any paint,
waste, glue or other substance used for painted or affixing advertisement
matter upon any public street or sidewalk, or scatter or throw or permit to be
scattered or thrown, any tills, waste, matter, papers, cloth or materials of
whatsoever kind removed from ground sign boards, roof sign boards, wall
bulletins or banners, on any public street or on private property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to post any advertisement on any premises without
the consent of the owner or occupant of such premises. Such consents must be in
writing and be filed with the City Clerk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any outdoor advertiser to post or display any
advertisement of an obscene or immoral character or any advertisement tending
to promote or cause a riot or breach of the peace, or any advertisement for an
unlawful gathering, or advertisements for unlawful sales.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to mutilate or disfigure any lawful sign or
advertisement in the municipality.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.05  IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   There shall be placed and maintained on the top of each ground sign board,
roof sign board, wall bulletin or banner, the name, plainly printed, of the
person, firm or corporation owning or who is in possession, charge or control
of the same, for advertising purposes.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.06  MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of each outdoor advertiser to keep all grass and weeds,
and all growth excepting trees and ornamental shrubbery, cut down so that the
same shall not grow to a greater length than ten inches within six feet of any
billboard or sign board used by said advertiser; provided that this obligation
shall extend only to property controlled by the advertiser.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
HANDBILLS
§ 125.15  LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to carry,
distribute or circulate, or cause to be distributed or circulated, any
handbills along or upon the sidewalks, streets, or other public place within
the city, without first having obtained a license so to do.
   (B)   Licenses may be issued for one day, one week, or one month, but not
beyond the municipal year. The license fee for such licenses shall be as
follows: For one day, $3; for one week, $10; for one month, $15; for one year,
$25.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.16  COPY TO BE FILED.
   No handbill shall be distributed or circulated within the city unless a copy
thereof is filed with the City Clerk prior to its distribution or circulation.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.17  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself, herself or another,
to distribute or carry for the purpose of distributing, along or upon the
streets, sidewalks, or other public place within the city, any handbill which
may invite to or make public, the holding of any meeting, gathering, or
assembly of persons to be held for the purpose of advocating riots, affrays,
disturbances or disorderly assemblies in any public or private place, or for
the purpose of advocating any acts which if performed, would be contrary to the
laws of the state or of the United States.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself, herself or another,
to distribute or carry for the purpose of distributing, along or upon the
streets, sidewalks, or other public place within the city, any handbill which
may invite to, make public, or advertise the holding of any meeting, gathering
or assembly to be held or advertised or announced to be held by any assembly,
society, organization or association which advocates the reformation or
overthrow of the existing form of government, by force, or any unlawful means,
or which shall invite, solicit or request any person to become a member of, or
attend a meeting of any society, organization, or association which advocates
crime or violence as a means of accomplishing the reformation or overthrowing
of the existing form of government.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself, herself or another,
to distribute or carry for the purpose of distribution, along or upon any
street, sidewalk, or any public place within the city, any handbill which shall
advertise or make public the holding of any meeting to be held for the purpose
of advocating violence or crime as a means to hinder, or overthrow, or prevent
the operation or conduct of any established business.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under the provisions of
this subchapter, to throw, cast or scatter any handbills along or upon any
street, highway, or other public place within the city, or to post, paste, nail
or otherwise fasten any handbill on any lamppost, curbstone, sidewalk, tree,
telegraph, telephone or electric light post, fire hydrant, or upon any other
property of the city over which it has control, or upon any billboard, wall,
door, gate, fence or other private property without the consent of the owner
thereof.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 125.99
§ 125.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
125.02 through
125.06 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense; and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
125.15 through
125.17 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $3 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
CHAPTER 126:  WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
Specific License Requirements
   
126.01   Blasting
   
126.02   Deadly weapons dealers
   
126.03   Gunpowder, explosives, petroleum and combustible materials
   
126.99   Penalty
SPECIFIC LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 126.01  BLASTING.
   (A)   No blasting operations shall be permitted within the city except upon
special license to be granted by the Mayor and upon such conditions and
restrictions as shall be necessary for the protection and safeguarding of life
and property.
   (B)   Previous to the issuance of any such license, applicants shall furnish
and file with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of $5,000 with sureties,
approved by the Mayor, conditioned for the payment of any loss, damage or
injury, resulting to persons or property by reason of the use of such
explosives, and for the strict observance of the ordinances of the city
relating to the subject of such explosives.
   (C)   The fee for such licenses shall be $10 for each blasting operation.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 126.02  DEADLY WEAPONS DEALERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
the business of selling or to sell or give away to any person within the city,
any pistol, revolver, derringer, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, stiletto, brass or
iron knuckles, or billies or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instruments of like character which can be concealed on the person, without a
license so to do as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license authorizing the
sale of the deadly weapons mentioned in division (A) hereof shall make
application in writing to the Mayor, setting out in such application the full
name and residence of the applicant, if an individual, and if a firm or
corporation, the name and residence of each of its members or officers. Such
applicant shall also set out the location at which it is intended or desired to
conduct such business. Upon receipt of such application it shall be the duty of
the Mayor to issue a license to the applicant upon a payment to the City
Collector of an annual license fee of $25.
   (C)   Every person, firm or corporation who is licensed to deal in deadly
weapons under the provisions of this section, shall make out and deliver to the
Chief of Police, every day before the hour of 12:00 p.m., a legible and correct
report of every sale or gift made under authority of said license during the
preceding 24 hours, which report shall contain the date of such sale or gift,
the name of the purchaser or donee, with his or her address and age, the
number, kind, description and price of such weapon, and the purpose given by
such person for the purchase of such weapon.
   (D)   In case the Mayor shall be satisfied that any licensee has violated
any provision of this section, then he or she shall revoke the license of such
person, firm or corporation from the selling of such weapons, and the money
paid for such license shall be forfeited to the city and no other such license
shall be issued to such licensee for a period of three years thereafter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell,
barter, or give away to any person within the city, any pistol, revolver,
derringer, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, stiletto, brass or iron knuckles, or
billies or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instruments of like
character which can be concealed on the person, except to licensed dealers and
to persons who have secured a permit for the purchase of such articles from the
Chief of Police, as hereinafter required.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase any pistol, revolver,
derringer, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, stiletto, brass or iron knuckles, or
billies or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instruments of like
character which can be concealed on the person, without first securing from the
Chief of Police a permit so to do. Before any such permit is granted an
application in writing shall be made therefor, setting forth in such
application the name, address, age, height, weight, complexion, nationality and
other elements of identification of the person desiring such permit, and the
applicant shall provide such evidence of good character as the Chief of Police
in his or her discretion may require.
   (G)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to refuse such
permit to:
         (a) All persons having been convicted of any crime;
         (b) All minors.
      (2)   Otherwise, in case he or she shall be satisfied that the applicant
is a person of good moral character, it shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police to grant such permit upon the payment of a fee of $1.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to exhibit
for sale in show cases or show windows, on counters or in any public manner,
any pistol, revolver, derringer, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, stiletto, brass or
iron knuckles, or billies or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or
instruments of like character, or to display any signs, posters, or display
cards suggesting the sale of any such weapon.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 126.03  GUNPOWDER, EXPLOSIVES, PETROLEUM AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall store, keep, sell or transport
within the city, any turpentine, tar, pitch, resin, hemp, cotton, gunpowder,
nitro-glycerine, petroleum, or any of the products thereof, including fuel oil,
coal oil, arid gasoline, fire crackers, torpedoes, or other sorts of fire
works, or other similar combustible explosive materials, without first having
obtained a license therefor; provided that any person may keep gunpowder for
his or her own use in any quantity not exceeding two pounds at one time; and
provided further that this section shall not apply to persons having small
amounts of said substances in their possession for household or medicinal uses.
   (B)   Every person, firm or corporation licensed under the provisions of
this section shall pay an annual license fee of $25; provided that persons who
hold licenses to conduct another business in which the above articles are
usually sold, shall not be required to obtain a license to sell or store the
aforesaid articles.
   (C)   No person to whom any license may be granted shall deposit or keep in
store exceeding 50 pounds of gunpowder or any other like explosive substance,
within the city unless the same shall be kept in a secure, fireproof powder
house, or magazine, built for that purpose and located at least 300 feet from
any other occupied building; nor shall such person, at his or her place of
business, or elsewhere in the city, keep on hand at any one time, for sale or
delivery, exceeding 50 pounds of gunpowder, or any other like explosive
substance, which shall be kept in a tin or other metallic canisters, containers
or cases, stored in a part of the building remote from any fire, lamp or gas
light and where it can be easily removed in case of fire.
   (D)   No person shall carry or convey any gunpowder or any other like
explosive substance, in or through any street, avenue, alley or other public
place in a careless or negligent manner, or in any quantity exceeding two
pounds, except, the be enclosed in secure canisters, containers, case nor shall
remain with the same in any street, alley or other public place, longer than
may be necessary for the carrying or transportation thereof from one place to
another.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to manufacture
anywhere within the city any gunpowder, gun cotton, giant powder, dynamite,
nitro-glycerine or other high explosive or similar material.
   (F)   It shall, be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep,
store, transport, sell or use any crude petroleum, fuel oil, benzine, gasoline,
naphtha, ether, coal oil or other like volatile combustibles or compounds in
such a manner or to cause such circumstances as will jeopardize life or
property; nor shall the same be permitted to stand open and exposed in any
building or other place; nor shall the same be kept stored or transported
except in air-tight containers; nor shall the floors or walls of any building
used for the keeping or storing of said materials be permitted to become coated
with grease and oil; nor shall rubbish be permitted to accumulate in any part
thereof.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, or a member of the Police
Department, under his or her supervision to inspect, at least four times
yearly, the premises occupied or used by any person licensed under the
provisions of this section, to ascertain whether the provisions of this section
and of all ordinances of the city relative to fire prevention, health and
safety are being complied with and he or she shall have the authority to
require any licensee to take all necessary measures to properly safeguard life
or property.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 126.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
126.01 or
126.02 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200 for each offense,
and every day on which any violation is committed, or is permitted to continue,
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 127:  INDUSTRIAL BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
127.01   Definitions
   
127.02   Blacksmith shops, foundries, and machine shops
   
127.03   Coal yards
   
127.04   Electrical contractors
   
127.05   Lumber yards and lumber store houses
   
127.06   Slaughter houses
   
127.99   Penalty
§ 127.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLACKSMITH SHOP.  Any place used for the purpose of shoeing horses or
mules or for the purpose of repairing the wood or metal parts of wagons.
      ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR.  Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of installing or altering, by contract, equipment, and electrical
appliances for the utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat or
power, not including radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of
sounds and signals, and not including apparatus, conductors, and other
equipment installed by or for public utilities, including common carriers,
which are under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission for use in
their operation as public utilities; and does not include employees employed by
such contractor to do or supervise such work, it shall be unlawful for any
person registered under the provisions of this section to install any
electrical appliances, wiring or fixtures without strict compliance with the
ordinances of the city relative to such installation.
      FOUNDRY.  Any place used for the purpose of heating, molding, shaping or
casting metals.
      MACHINE SHOP.  Every workshop in which machines are made or metal parts
thereof are repaired or where parts of machines or tools, implements, dies,
gears, screws or other metal articles are cut, filed, shaped or repaired by
means of a lathe or other machinery.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
§ 127.02  BLACKSMITH SHOPS, FOUNDRIES, AND MACHINE SHOPS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall keep, conduct or operate any
blacksmith shop, foundry or machine shop, within the city, without first having
obtained a license therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to locate,
build, construct, operate or maintain any blacksmith shop, foundry or machine
shop within 200 feet of any building or grounds thereof, used for and as a
hospital, church or public or parochial school; nor shall any person, firm or
corporation locate, build, construct, operate or maintain any blacksmith shop,
foundry or machine shop in any block in which the majority of the buildings on
both sides of the street are used exclusively for residential purposes, without
the written consent of a majority of the property owners according to frontage
on both sides of such street in such block. Such written consent shall be
obtained and filed with the application for a license under the provisions of
this section.
   (C)   No building, structure or part thereof used for the purpose of a
blacksmith shop, foundry or machine shop shall be so used as to constitute a
nuisance or endanger the health or property of the employees or of the public;
all floors and other surfaces around any machine or work bench shall be kept in
good order and repair and suitable and convenient sanitary receptacles shall be
provided for receiving waste and cloths used in and about said businesses for
the purpose of cleaning machines or parts thereof or which are intended for any
other use. No person suffering from any actively contagious or infectious
disease shall be employed in or about any machine where cutting compound or
fluid is used. All such cutting compound or fluid shall be kept free from
infectious or harmful matter.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the city health officer to inspect all
premises used for the purpose of a blacksmith shop, foundry or machine shop, at
least once every three months, and at such other times as he or she may deem
necessary, to insure compliance with the provisions of this section and of all
ordinances of the city and regulations of the Board of Health to safeguard the
health and safety of the public.
   (E)   The fee for a license to keep, conduct or operate a blacksmith shop,
foundry or machine shop shall be $25 per year.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 127.99
§ 127.03  COAL YARDS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct, maintain or keep a coal
yard within the fire limits of the city without first having obtained a license
so to do. The license fee for such license shall be $25 per annum.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to pile any coal in such a manner so that it can
fall down upon adjoining property or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public place, or in such a manner as may be dangerous and detrimental to public
safety.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to establish any coal yard in the city where a
majority of the houses within a radius of 300 feet are used exclusively for
residential purposes without first having obtained the written consent of the
owners of two-thirds of the lots or parcels of ground within such radius.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make such inspections
or cause the same to be made, as may be necessary to insure compliance with the
provisions of this section, and of all ordinances of the city relative to fire
protection and to public health and safety and he or she shall make immediate
report of all violations thereof to the Mayor.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 127.99
Cross-reference:
   Fuel Sales and Distribution, see
Ch. 121
§ 127.04  ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
electrical contractor without first having obtained a certificate of
registration therefor as is herein required. Application for such certificate
shall be made to the Mayor.
   (B)   The annual fee for registering as an electrical contractor shall be
$25. No certificate of registration shall be transferred.
   (C)   Any electrical contractor who is registered as such in any other city
or village in the state shall not be required to pay a fee for being registered
in this city; but every person, firm or corporation doing business in this city
as an electrical contractor shall secure a certificate of registration. Such
certificate shall be issued without charge to electrical contractors registered
as such under the ordinances of another city or village in this state.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 127.99
§ 127.05  LUMBER YARDS AND LUMBER STORE HOUSES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, conduct, maintain,
keep or own a lumber yard or lumber store house in the city without first
having obtained a license so to do. The license fee for such licenses shall be
$25 per annum.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning or
operating a lumber yard or a lumber store house to have the same equipped with
sufficient fire fighting apparatus to handle any small fire which may start,
and to prevent its spread. No shavings, waste, rubbish or other combustible
material shall be permitted to accumulate on such premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to pile or stack lumber in such a manner that the
lumber overhangs or is in danger of falling onto any adjoining property or
street, alley or other public place. All lumber shall be stacked in a compact
manner.
   (D)   It shall hereafter be unlawful to establish any lumber yard or lumber
store house anywhere in the city where a majority of the houses within a radius
of 300 feet are used exclusively for residence purposes without having secured
the written consent of the owners of two-thirds of the lots or parcels of
ground within such radius.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make an inspection, or
cause the same to be made, at least once every three months, to insure
compliance with the provisions of this section and of all ordinances of the
city relative to fire protection and he or she shall make immediate report of
all violations thereof to the Mayor.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 127.99
§ 127.06  SLAUGHTER HOUSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person. firm or corporation within the
city or within one mile of the present or future city limits, to engage in the
business of slaughtering animals for food, packing them for market, or cleaning
the intestines thereof, or rendering offal, fat, bones or scraps therefrom, or,
of any dead carcasses or animal matter whatever, or to engage in the
manufacture or production of fertilizer or glue therefrom or the manufacture of
the same into fertilizing matter, or changing the form thereof in any manner by
the use of heat, steam, fire or chemicals, or otherwise, without previously
having obtained a license for such business.
   (B)   The Mayor shall from time to time, cause to be issued licenses to such
persons or corporations as shall apply therefor and shall produce to him or her
satisfactory evidence of their good character to exercise and carry on such
business in the manner following and not otherwise.
   (C)   Any person or corporation desiring a license under the provisions of
this section within the city or within one mile of the present or future limits
thereof, shall make written application therefore to the Mayor, in which
application shall be described the location at which said business is proposed
to be carried on. Such application shall be accompanied by evidence that the
applicant, if an individual, or the person or persons in charge of the
business, if a corporation, is or are persons of good character or reputation,
and are suitable persons to be entrusted with the conduct of such business.
   (D)   The annual license fee to conduct the business of rendering, packing
meat for shipment, slaughtering, glue making, soap making, or any business of
the character herein authorized, shall be $200. In addition thereto all persons
or corporations conducting a rendering business shall pay an annual fee of $10
for each rendering tank, and no two plants for conducting any of the businesses
herein authorized shall be carried on under one license.
   (E)   Any license granted under the provisions of this section may be
revoked upon written notice by the Mayor whenever it shall appear to his or her
satisfaction that the parties so licensed have violated any of the provisions
of this or any other ordinance of the city, or any law of the state, relating
to said business of slaughtering, rendering, packing, and manufacture of
fertilizer or glue, or other by-products of animal matter.
   (F)   No owner or person in possession, charge or control of a slaughter
house shall slaughter cattle, sheep or hogs between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and
4:00 a.m. or on Sundays without first notifying the City Health Officer. No
carcass of any dead animal shall be brought into any slaughter house in the
city.
   (G)   The keeping and slaughtering of live stock and the preparation and
keeping of all meat, fish, birds, fowls, and the rendering of all animal matter
and the manufacture of glue and all by-products from animal matter shall be
conducted in that manner which is or is generally reputed or known to be the
best adapted to secure and continue their safety and wholesomeness as food, and
to avoid all offensiveness of such keeping, slaughtering, rendering and
manufacturing. All offensive odors arising from the handling of meat or other
animal matter, melting or rendering, the treating of and caring for offal,
blood or any other material stored or manufactured shall be destroyed by
combustion, condensation, or other means equally effective, and according to
the best and approved means and process, and not allowed to escape into the
outside air.
   (H)   No offal or butcher's refuse shall be conveyed through any street,
avenue, alley or public place within the city without a permit from the City
Health Officer, and when so conveyed shall be in vehicles constructed of one or
more tight compartments.
   (I)   It shall constitute, and is hereby declared to be a nuisance, for any
person to so steam or boil, or in any way render any animal substance as to
occasion any offensive smell, or which by undergoing such process so taints the
airs as to render it unwholesome or offensive to the smell or detrimental to
health, within the limits of the city, or within a distance of one mile
therefrom. The City Health Officer or any member of the Board of Health shall
be permitted free entrance at all hours of the day or night to all buildings
used for the purposes specified in this section and to make free and
unrestrained examination of all apparatus or utensils used in such manufacture,
or in the disposition of gases generated in such manufacture and all matters
and things relative to the health of the community.
   (J)   No animals shall be slaughtered or the meat or any part thereof
dressed or hung wholly or partly, within any streets, avenue or sidewalk or
public alley or place; nor shall any blood or dirty water or other substance
from such animal meat, or place of killing, or the appurtenances thereof, be
allowed to run, fall or to be in any such street, avenue, sidewalk, public
alley or place. Every slaughter house or any part thereof, shall at all times
be kept adequately and thoroughly ventilated, and no blood shall be allowed to
remain therein over night, and adequate underground connections shall be made
from every such building with a public sewer, and the floor of any building on
which slaughtering is done, and any yard connected therewith shall be cemented
and paved with brick or other suitable material, so as not to absorb blood, and
so as to carry all liquid into the sewers. No substances, other than liquid,
shall be deposited or caused to run into the sewers of the city, nor shall such
an amount of such liquid be deposited or run into said sewers, at any time, as
will overtax their capacity, thereby causing such liquid to overflow from said
sewers into any street, alley, lot, dwelling house, building, or other place in
the city.
   (K)   No person shall boil any offal, swill or bones, nor any fat, tallow or
lard, except while the same is fresh and otherwise inoffensive, nor shall the
business of bone crushing, bone boiling, bone grinding, bone burning, shell
burning, gut cleaning, nor the skinning of or making of glue from any dead
animal or part thereof, nor the storage or keeping of scrap, fat or grease or
offensive animal matter be permitted or conducted at any place within the
limits of the city, or within one mile thereof, in such a manner as to generate
any offensive or deleterious gas, vapor deposit or exhalation that is dangerous
or detrimental to life or health. Every person engaged in the business of
boiling or rendering of fat, lard or animal matter, shall cause the scrap or
residuum to be so dried or otherwise prepared as effectually to deprive such
material of all offensive odors, and to preserve the same entirely inoffensive
immediately after the removal thereof from the receptacles in which the
rendering process may be conducted.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to carry on,
establish, prosecute or continue within the city, or within one mile thereof,
the occupation, trade or business of skinning or rendering dead animals not
proper for use as food, and every such establishment or place of such business
existing within the city limits or within one mile thereof, is hereby declared
a nuisance, and such trade, occupation or business shall be forthwith abated
and discontinued.
   (M)   No person or corporation shall use any packing or slaughter house or
any place which is occupied for the purpose of slaughtering or rendering
cattle, sheep and hogs or dressing, cleaning, treating or preparing for
shipment and canning, meats and other foodstuff by hand or machinery, for
housing, sheltering and harboring of its employees or other persons or cause or
permit the same to be used as sleeping quarters and living apartments by such
employees or other persons. Any such house or place so used or occupied for
sleeping or living purposes is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (N)   For the purpose of carrying any of the provisions of this section into
effect it shall be the duty of the City Health Officer to cause to be detailed
a sufficient number of police immediately upon complaint of any citizen to make
a through and systematic examination of any plant or plants and building or
buildings, and to ascertain and report any violations of this section and for
this purpose investigators shall be permitted at all times to visit or enter
upon any building, lot or ground within the city limits and make examination
thereof. Whenever any nuisance shall be found upon any such premises the City
Health Officer is hereby authorized and directed to cause the same to be
summarily abated in such manner as he or she may direct.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 127.99
§ 127.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
127.02 through
127.05 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or corporation who violates, disobeys, or refuses to
comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of §
127.06, or who refuses or neglects to obey any rule, order, or sanitary
regulation made by the City Health Officer or Board of Health under the
authority of §
127.06, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than  $200 for each offense.
      (2)   Any person or corporation who shall hereafter engage in the
business of slaughtering live stock or rendering animal matter, or the
manufacture of any of the by-products of animal matter at any place within the
city, or within one mile of the limits thereof, without first having obtained a
license as herein provided, shall be fined not less than $25 and not exceeding
$200 for each offense, and a further penalty of $25 for each and every day such
person or corporation continues in such violation after the first offense.
Provided, that in all cases where a urn-sauce shall be found in any building or
upon any ground or other premises used for slaughtering, rendering, or the
conduct of any business mentioned in this section, 24 hours notice shall be
given in writing signed by the City Health Officer, to the owner or occupant of
such building or other premises, where he or she is known and can be found, to
remove such nuisance, and in case of his or her neglect or refusal to abate the
same, in accordance with such notice, the City Health Officer is hereby
authorized in his or her discretion to cause the same to be summarily abated in
such manner as he or she may direct, and such person or corporation shall be
chargeable with the expense which may be incurred in the abatement or removal
of such nuisance, to be collected by suit or otherwise, in addition to the fine
and penalty herein provided for.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 128:  SPECIFIC LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
128.01   Barber shops
   
128.02   Building movers
   
128.03   Expressmen, draymen and carters
   
128.04   Florists
   
128.05   Household pet dealers
   
128.06   Real estate and insurance brokers
   
128.07   Taxicab and taxicab drivers
   
128.08   Undertakers
   
128.99   Penalty
§ 128.01  BARBER SHOPS.
   (A)   A barber shop is a place where hair is cut, cleansed, treated or
dressed, or the face shaved or beard trimmed for hire, and where also manicure,
chiropody or massage treatments are sometimes furnished for hire. This
definition shall also include hair-dressing establishments and beauty shops
commonly patronized by women.
   (B)   Every barber shop, hair-dressing establishment and beauty shop now
operating or hereafter operating in the city shall be open at all reasonable
times for inspection by the City Health Officer and the owner or owners, or
manager and all employees therein shall conform strictly with all the
provisions and regulations of this section.
   (C)   No person shall be employed in a barber shop, hair-dressing
establishment or beauty shop in the city as a barber, hair-dresser, manicurist,
masseur or masseuse, chiropodist or attendant who is suffering from any
communicable disease.
   (D)   All places used as barber shops, hair-dressing establishments, or
beauty shops, together with the furniture fixtures, tools, implements, linen
and other appliances, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.
   (E)   Every barber shop, hair-dressing establishment and beauty shop shall
be equipped with and use running hot and cold water.
   (F)   At least one clean towel, one clean face cloth or sanitary paper shall
be used for each customer.
   (G)   The common use of powder puffs or sponges is hereby prohibited.
   (H)   No alum or other astringent shall be used in stick form. Such
astringent, if used at all, must be used in powder form.
   (I)   No owner or employee of any barber shop or hair-dressing establishment
shall permit any person to use the head-rest of any barber's chair or hair-
dressing chair under his or her control unless said head-rest shall be covered
with a fresh towel or sanitary paper for each customer. Shaving mugs, including
shaving soap and brushes, must be thoroughly scalded before being used for each
customer.
   (J)   No person affected with any disease of the face or head shall have the
same barbered or treated in any manner in a barber shop or hair-dressing
establishment in the city, nor shall any person with hand or hands diseased be
manicured therein.
   (K)   Every person in every barber shop or hair-dressing establishment in
the city, while serving customers shall wear a clean, washable apron or coat,
which shall be kept clean.
   (L)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain or operate
any barber shop, hair-dressing establishment or beauty shop, as defined in
division (A), without first having obtained a license as hereinafter provided.
   (M)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to establish,
maintain or operate a barber shop, hair-dressing establishment or beauty shop,
as defined in division (A) of this section, shall make written application for
a license so to do, in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 110, upon which application shall be stated the training and experience
of the applicant, the time or place where the said applicant obtained his or
her required diploma or state license, and the place or places at which, it is
intended or desired to conduct said barber shop or hair-dressing establishment.
      (2)   The City Health Officer shall then make an investigation of the
premises, named in such application, for the purpose of determining the fitness
and suitability of said premises for the conduct of such business from a
sanitary standpoint. He or she shall also cause an investigation to be made of
the applicant and the qualifications, mentioned in the application to determine
whether the applicant is of good character and reputation and to determine if
all the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state relative to the
operation and maintenance of barber shops and hair-dressing establishments have
been complied with, and also if all the necessary precautions are and will be
taken in said establishment to prevent the spread of contagious or communicable
diseases.
      (3)   The City Health Officer upon completion of such investigation,
shall transmit such application to the Mayor together with a recommendation for
or against the issuance of such a license. If the applicant or applicants or
its chief officer (if the applicant be a corporation) is or are of good moral
character and repute, and the person or persons employed hold the proper state
license in every case where the same is required, the Mayor shall, upon payment
of such applicant of the license fee herein fixed, authorize the issuance of a
license to conduct a barber shop, hair-dressing establishment or beauty shop.
   (N)   The annual license fee for a barber shop, hairdressing establishment
or beauty shop shall be $10 for each establishment employing not more than
three persons, and in addition thereto $3 for each additional person employed
in such an establishment.
   (O)   The City Health Officer, may at any time, recommend the revocation of
any license issued under the terms of the foregoing sections, and the Mayor
shall revoke such license whenever it shall appear to his or her satisfaction
from the recommendations of the City Health Officer, or otherwise, that the
licensee has violated the provisions of any ordinance of the city, or of any
law of the state relating to the carrying on the business named in such
license.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.02  BUILDING MOVERS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall move any building on, through or
over any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the city without
first having obtained a permit to do so. Applications for such permits shall be
made in writing to the Mayor and shall state thereon the proposed route and the
number of days it is intended that the building should occupy any portion of
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. The Mayor shall refer such
applications to the Superintendent of Streets for his or her approval.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the intended route by the Superintendent of
Streets, a fee of $10 for each day or fraction thereof that it is intended that
the building shall occupy any portion of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place shall be paid to the City Collector. An additional payment of $10
for each day or fraction thereof over and above the time stated on the permit
during which any building shall occupy any such street, alley, sidewalk or
other public place, shall be paid.
   (C)   Every person, firm or corporation applying for a permit under this
section shall submit with such application a bond in the sum of $2,000 with at
least two good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the Mayor, conditioned
on the applicant's compliance with all provisions of this section, and agreeing
to pay and holding the city harmless from any claim, loss, damage or liability
which may result by reason of the occupation of any street, sidewalk, alley or
other public place by the building or structure moved.
   (D)   Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a house or structure which is
being moved, warnings to that effect shall be placed by the Superintendent of
Streets so as to warn vehicles and persons from entering that portion of the
street which is so blocked. The person, firm or corporation moving any building
through the streets shall keep warning signs and lanterns or lights at night on
the building to prevent accidents.
   (E)   No building shall be moved over, on or across any public street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way in the city unless the consent of the
owners of two-thirds of the lots within a radius of 300 feet of the proposed
new location to such new location of the building is first obtained in writing
and filed with the City Clerk.
   (F)   Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with wires or cables of a
public utility in moving a building the terms of all special franchise
ordinance governing shall apply and the bond therein specified shall be given.
Notice to the local agent of such utility shall be given in any event. If no
such terms apply then the Superintendent of Streets shall estimate the expense
of fixing the wires and the bond to be given to cover this. Either party
dissatisfied with his or her decision may appeal to the Mayor who shall
thereupon determine the fair cost and bond.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.03  EXPRESSMEN, DRAYMEN AND CARTERS.
   (A)   No person shall, within the limits of the city, pursue the occupation
of a public expressman, carter, wagoner, drayman, or any like occupation for
the carriage of goods, wares, merchandise, or other property, or in pursuing
such occupation either obtain or deliver the same for hire, profit or gain,
without a license, for which license he or she shall pay an annual license fee
of $15. The fact that such person may have procured a license from another
municipality within or outside of the state to pursue such occupation shall not
exempt such person from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Every vehicle used for such business shall have printed thereon in a
place easily visible from the side of the vehicle, the name and address of the
owner in letters legible to one of normal eyesight at a distance of 25 feet.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.04  FLORISTS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business or pursue
the occupation of a florist, within the city, without first having obtained a
license to do so.
   (B)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be $10.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.05  HOUSEHOLD PET DEALERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of dealer in birds,
cats, dogs or other household pets in the city without first having obtained a
license therefor.
   (B)   Premises used for such purposes shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be thoroughly cleaned at least once a day. No refuse shall
be allowed, to accumulate thereon for a longer period than 24 hours; and the
premises shall be kept well ventilated.
   (C)   Any diseased animals on such premises shall be kept in separate
quarters so that there shall be no danger of a spread of any disease from one
animal to another.
   (D)   The City Health Officer shall make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The fee to be paid for such licenses shall be $10 per annum.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.06  REAL ESTATE AND INSURANCE BROKERS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or conduct the business
of real estate or insurance broker without first being licensed therefor.
Applications for licenses shall be made in writing in accordance with
Chapter 110, and no license shall be issued to anyone who has not obtained a
certificate of registration as required by laws of this state.
   (B)   No such license shall be issued to anyone who has been found guilty of
fraudulent practices in violation of the state statute in relation to real
estate or insurance brokers, and real estate or insurance brokers licenses may
be revoked for such fraudulent practices.
   (C)   The annual fee for such licenses shall be $25.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.07  TAXICAB AND TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRIVER.  Every person in charge of, or operating, any taxicab as herein
defined either as agent, employee or otherwise.
      OWNER.  Any person, firm, corporation or association, who has bona fide
legal title or control, direction, operation, maintenance, leasing or the
collection of revenues derived from such taxicabs so operated for hire on the
streets of the city.
      TAXICAB.  All motor vehicles propelled and operated for passenger hire
subject to call from a stand, station or garage, or otherwise operating for
hire, except motor buses running and operating on established routes and
funeral vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate, or be in
charge of any taxicab without first having obtained a license so to do.
      (2)   Applicants for such licenses shall file with the Mayor an
application in writing upon blanks to be furnished by the City Clerk. Said
application shall state the experience of the applicant in driving motor
vehicles, the physical condition, including the eyesight and hearing of the
applicant, and whether such person has ever been convicted for violation of the
motor vehicle, or traffic ordinances or laws, either city, county, state or
federal; and the number of times, if any, and the various offenses charged.
      (3)   In case such application is for an original license and not the
renewal of a license previously issued, such application shall be accompanied
by the signed statement of a practicing physician that applicant is physically
fit to operate a taxicab and has no uncorrected defects in eyesight and no
impairment of hearing.
      (4)   The Mayor shall investigate the facts stated in said application
before issuing such license, and shall not grant such license to any person who
is less than 18 years of age, or who is not physically or morally a person who
should be permitted to operate such taxicab, or where the safety of the public
might be endangered by the granting of such license. Every license so granted
shall entitle the holder thereof to drive a licensed taxicab for one current
license year upon the payment of the license fee.
   (C)   No person, firm, corporation or association shall use or occupy any
street, alley, or other public place within the limits of the city for the
purpose of carrying passengers for hire without first obtaining a license
therefor.
   (D)   Any person, firm, corporation or association desiring a license for
any taxicab shall:
      (1)   File an application with the Mayor upon a form provided for that
purpose setting forth the name, business and residence address of the
applicant, a full description of the motor vehicle for which a license is
desired (make, model, motor and engine number, number of passengers that may be
accommodated in any such motor vehicle), place where such motor vehicle is to
be kept when not in use, the number and kinds of other motor vehicles owned by
said applicant, the state license number of such motor vehicles and any such
other information as the Mayor may from time to time desire.
      (2)   Exhibit satisfactory proof to the Mayor that the provisions of the
statutes of the state relating to carriage of passengers for hire have been
complied with.
      (3)   Pay to the City Collector the license fee hereinafter provided for
the full annual period for which such license is issued, which fee, in event
such license is not issued, shall be refunded by the City Collector to such
applicant. In the event said applicant fully complies with the foregoing
conditions and other provisions of this section and pays the license fee
hereinafter specified for such taxicab, the Mayor shall issue or cause to be
issued, the license applied for, which shall be attested by the City Clerk and
the City Collector and shall authorize the use of such motor vehicle for the
transportation of persons for hire upon the streets and public thoroughfares of
the city for the remainder of the calendar year during which such license is
issued.
   (E)   The following license fees shall be paid:
      (1)   For each original Driver's License, or renewal thereof, $2.
      (2)   For each taxicab license, or renewal thereof, $100 provided that
any licensee hereunder may obtain a license to operate additional taxicabs not
to exceed three in number without the payment of any further license fee; for
each additional taxicab over three an annual license fee of $25 shall be paid.
All licenses issued hereunder shall terminate on April 30 of each year. No
license shall be issued for less than a year unless less than six months of the
fiscal year remains, in which case one half of said license fee shall be paid.
   (F)   There shall be kept in the office of the City Collector a complete
record of each taxicab license and of each license issued to a driver, and of
all renewals, suspensions and revocations thereof, which record shall be kept
on file with the original applications for licenses.
   (G)   Any articles left by any passenger in any taxicab licensed hereunder,
shall be immediately delivered by the driver thereof to the Police Department
of this city.
   (H)   No taxicab shall be managed, operated or controlled so as to violate
any parking or traffic ordinances of this city, nor stand or be managed,
operated or controlled so as to obstruct traffic, or so as to interfere with
the free movement of traffic upon any street, alley or public way in this city.
   (I)   When any passenger hires the service of any taxicab as herein defined,
such passenger shall be immediately loaded in such taxicab and shall
immediately be taken to his or her or her destination by the nearest traveled
route as the condition of the streets or public ways permit, unless otherwise
requested by such passenger or passengers.
   (J)   No unemployed taxicab, as herein defined, shall stand or be permitted
to stand upon any portion of the public streets or alleys or public places of
this city, except for such time as is necessary to load or unload passengers,
excepting in such portions of the public streets, alleys or other public ways
of this city as shall be from time to time designated by the City Council as
taxicab stands and allotted to the particular licensee in question.
   (K)   Other than no more passengers shall defined, operating on the of the
city than there is for.
   (L)   No person shall operate a taxicab or cause the same to be done unless
the taxicab is in a condition thoroughly safe for the transportation of
passengers, clean, of good appearance, well painted, and in good mechanical
condition. Every owner of a taxicab shall furnish semi-annually to the Chief of
Police, and at which other times as the Chief of Police may require a proof of
the good mechanical condition of each taxicab, which shall consist of a
certificate from the operator of a public garage designated by the Chief of
Police, indicating that mechanical inspection of the taxicab has been made by
such person or his or her agent, and that the steering apparatus. brakes and
lighting equipment are in good operating condition. The owner shall be required
to furnish such certificate at his or her own expense.
   (M)   No person shall drive any taxicab, as herein defined, in this city who
is under 18 years of age, nor while under the influence of any intoxicating or
spirituous liquor.
   (N)   No person, firm, corporation or association shall operate a taxicab in
the city unless such taxicab shall have painted in letters at least two inches
in height on at least one door on each side of the taxicab the name of the
owner thereof. If the taxicab is owned by a corporation such fact shall be
indicated and if operating under a firm name, the name of the actual owner or
owners shall be registered in the office of the City Collector. If any person,
owns more than one taxicab a distinguishing number shall be placed on each
taxicab in the manner hereinbefore provided in regard to the name of the owner.
   (O)   It shall be the duty of the police officers to summarily arrest any
person violating provisions of this section, and to cause the removal from the
streets of the city of any taxicab operated or parked in violation of the
provisions of this section, and to immediately appear before the Police
Magistrate or a Justice of the Peace and make proper complaint thereto.
   (P)   The Mayor shall have the right to revoke any license issued hereunder
for the violation of any of the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.08  UNDERTAKERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or
maintain an undertaking establishment in the city without first having obtained
a license to do so. Applications for such license shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of
Chapter 110.
   (B)   No undertaking establishment shall be used for the purpose of exposing
or exhibiting the body of any deceased person to the public, other than to
friends and relatives of the deceased.
   (C)   Every undertaking establishment shall be conducted in compliance with
the rules and regulations of the Board of Health and in such a manner as not to
subject the public or any person to contagious diseases. Such establishments
shall at all times be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer and he or she is
hereby authorized and empowered to inspect and examine all undertaking
establishments from time to time for the purpose of ascertaining whether all of
the ordinances of the city and the regulations of the Board of Health are being
complied with at such establishments. A record of each inspection shall be made
and kept on file in his or her office, and a copy thereof shall be furnished to
the Mayor. The City Health Officer, upon making such inspection, shall issue a
certificate showing that such undertaking establishment is conducted in
compliance with the city ordinances, and the regulations of the Board of
Health, if such inspection warrants.
   (E)   It shall hereafter be unlawful to establish an undertaking
establishment in any place where a majority of the buildings within a radius of
400 feet are used exclusively for residence purposes without first having
secured the written consent of the owners of a majority of the lots or parcels
of ground within such radius.
   (F)   The fee for a license to operate or maintain an undertaking
establishment shall be $25 per year.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003) 
Penalty, see § 128.99
§ 128.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner, barber, hair-dresser, beauty shop operator, or other
operative or employee of such barber shop, hair-dressing establishment or
beauty shop violating any of the provisions of §
128.01, shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense;
and every day that such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
128.02 shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $100 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or neglect to comply
with any of the provisions of §
128.03 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
128.04 or
128.08 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $10 nor more than
$100.
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
128.05 or
128.07 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $200 for each offense and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
128.06 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense,
and each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 1612, passed 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 129:  CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
Section
   
129.01   Definitions
   
129.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
129.03   Public nuisance declared
§ 129.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (PA. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION or INFUSER. A facility operated by
or organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (PA. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION or PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION or TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 1840, passed 1-7-2020)
§ 129.02  CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the city. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aid, abet or assist in the operation within the city of any of the following:
   (A)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
   (D)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
   (E)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor;
   (F)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 1840, passed 1-7-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 129.03  PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the city
in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 1840, passed 1-7-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
   TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   School attendance; truancy
   
130.02   Soliciting contributions
   
130.03   Theft
   
130.04   Trespassing
   
130.05   Property damage
   
130.06   Curfew
   
130.07   Paved municipal parcels and lots
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  SCHOOL ATTENDANCE; TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Madison, Illinois.
      PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate or any other legal
entity or their legal representative, agent or assigns.
      TRUANT.  A child subject to compulsory school attendance and who is
absent without valid cause from the attendance for a school day or portion
thereof.
      VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE.  Illness, death in the immediate family or
family emergency and shall include such other situations beyond the control of
the student, as determined by the Board of Education in each district, or other
circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the parent for the safety or
health of the student.
   (B)   Compulsory school age; exemptions.
      (1)   Every child between the ages of seven and 16 years shall attend
some public school in the district wherein the child resides the entire time it
is in session during the regular school term, except as provided in ILCS Ch.
105, Act 5, § 10-19.1, as amended; provided, that the following children shall
not be required to attend the public schools:
         (a)   Any child attending a private or a parochial school where
children are taught the branches of education taught to children of
corresponding age and grade in the public schools and where the instruction of
the child in the branches of education is in the English language;
         (b)   Any child who is physically or mentally unable to attend school,
the disability being certified to the County Superintendent of Schools or the
Superintendent of the Public Schools, which the child should be attending by a
competent physician; or who is excused for temporary absence for cause by the
principal or teacher of the school which the child attends;  (The exemptions in
this division (B)(1)(b) do not apply to any female who is pregnant or the
mother of one or more children, except where a female is unable to attend
school due to a complication arising from her pregnancy and the existence of
the complication is certified to the County Superintendent of Schools or the
Superintendent of the Public Schools which the child should be attending by a
competent physician.)
         (c)   Any child necessarily and lawfully employed according to the
provisions of the law regulating child labor may be excused from attendance at
school by the County Superintendent of Schools or the Superintendent of the
Public School which the child should be attending, on certification of the
facts by and the recommendation of the School Board of the Public School
District in which the child resides; and  (In districts having part time
continuation schools, children so excused shall attend such schools at least
eight hours each week.)
         (d)   Any child over 12 and under 14 years of age while in attendance
at confirmation classes.
      (2)   Whoever has custody or control of any child between the ages of
seven and 16 years shall cause the child to attend some public school in the
district wherein the child resides the entire time it is in session during the
regular school term, except as provided in ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, § 10-19.1, as
amended.
   (C)   Enrolled pupils below seven or over 16.
      (1)   Every child who is below the age of seven years or above the age of
16 years and who is enrolled in any of grades 1 through 12 in the public school
shall attend the public school in the district wherein he or she resides when
it is in session during the regular school term unless he or she is excused
under divisions (B)(1)(a) through (d) above.
      (2)   Any person having custody or control of a child who is below the
age of seven years or above the age of 16 years and who is enrolled in any
grade one through 12, in the public school shall cause him or her to attend the
public school in the district wherein he or she resides when it is in session
during the regular school term unless he or she is excused under divisions (B)
(1)(a) through (d) above.
   (D)   Punishment for certain offenses.  Any person who induces or attempts
to induce any child to be absent from school unlawfully, or who knowingly
employs or harbors, while school is in session, any child absent unlawfully
from school for one or more consecutive school days, is guilty of violations of
this section.
   (E)   Presumptions.  Whenever a child subject to the provisions of this
section is truant, the presumption is created that the person having custody or
control of the child knowingly and willfully permitted the child to be truant,
but that presumption may be rebutted.
   (F)   Construction.  The provisions of this section shall in no way be
construed to limit or reduce the authority granted to the respective school
officers, teachers or truant officers in the Illinois School Code, ILCS Ch.
122, Act 26, as amended.
(Ord. 1035, passed 10-25-1983) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02  SOLICITING CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required.  No person shall stand on any street, highway or
roadway within the corporate limits of the city for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle unless the person shall satisfy
all the requirements of this section and unless a solicitation permit has been
obtained from the City Clerk.
   (B)   Authorized intersections.  Solicitation conducted on a street, highway
or roadway within the city pursuant to a permit issued under the authority of
this section shall be undertaken only at the following intersections:
      (1)   Madison Avenue and Sixth Street;
      (2)   Madison Avenue and Twelfth Street.
   (C)   Authorized times.  Any solicitation conducted on a street, highway or
roadway within the city pursuant to a permit issued under the authority of this
section shall be undertaken only between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 5 p.m.
   (D)   Eligible agencies.  Any person conducting solicitation under the
authority of this section shall be affiliated with an eligible soliciting
agency which shall be:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization
as provided by ILCS Ch. 225, Act 460, §§ 1 et seq., “An Act to regulate
solicitation and collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for
violations thereof, and making an appropriation therefor.”
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fund raising activity; and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   (E)   Application for permit.  A person seeking issuance of a solicitation
permit under this section shall file an application therefor with the City
Clerk on forms of the City Clerk’s specifications.  An application for a
solicitation permit shall be filed with the City Clerk not less than 30 days
nor more than 90 days before the date on which such agency proposes to conduct
the solicitation. The application for a solicitation permit shall set forth and
include the following:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person executing the
application;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of the
particular soliciting agency;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person acting as
chairman of the solicitation program for which the application is being made;
      (4)   The date of the proposed solicitation;
      (5)   The intersection(s) at which the solicitation is proposed;
      (6)   The number of persons (not to exceed six) to be stationed and
actively engaged in the solicitation of occupants of motor vehicles at any
given time;
      (7)   The time at which the proposed solicitation will begin and
terminate;
      (8)   A statement that the soliciting agency agrees to the assumption of
the liability for any injuries to person or property as provided in division
(D)(3), supra and agrees to provide with the application evidence of insurance
covering such liability;
      (9)   An agreement, signed by the applicant, to indemnify, hold harmless
and defend the city and its officers, employees, contractors and agents of and
from all liability and claims of liability for injury to persons or property
which shall be caused by or related in any way to the activity to be carried on
by the applicant pursuant to the terms of the permit granted hereunder. In
addition, the applicant shall furnish and maintain a general policy of
liability insurance designating the city and its officers, employees, agents
and contractors as additional insureds. The policy of insurance shall have a
combined single limit coverage of $1,000,000 and shall be paid in full and be
noncancellable during the entire time period for which the permit application
is made. Certification of such insurance in force shall be submitted by the
applicant along with the permit application; and
      (10)   Any additional information which the City Clerk finds reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (F)   Issuance of permit; notice of decision.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall refer the application to the City Council
which may issue a solicitation permit as provided for in this section when,
from a consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, the City Council finds that:
         (a)   The conduct of the solicitation will not substantially interrupt
the safe and orderly movement of traffic at the location(s) requested;
         (b)   The conduct of such solicitation and the concentrations of
persons involved therein will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of or ambulance service to contiguous areas in the city.
      (2)   The City Council shall act upon the application for a solicitation
permit at the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring at least five
days after the filing of the application. The City Clerk shall notify the
applicant of the approval or rejection of the application within five days of
such action by the City Council.
   (G)   Contents of permit; permit to be present at solicitation site. Each
solicitation permit issued pursuant to this section shall state the name of the
organization and/or agency involved, the particular intersections) at which the
solicitation is to be undertaken and the date and time period during which the
solicitation is to be undertaken. One permit shall be issued for each location
used and said permit shall be in the possession of one of the persons
soliciting at each location at all times.
   (H)   Age requirements, safety vests.  Any person engaged in solicitation as
authorized by this section shall be 16 years of age or more and shall wear a
high-visibility vest or other such garment.
   (I)   Penalty.  Any person, firm, association, partnership or corporation
violating any provision of this section shall be subject to a fine in an amount
not less than $50 nor greater than $750 per each offense.
(Ord. 961, passed 4-1-1980; Am. Ord. 1568, passed 12-18-2001) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03  THEFT.
   A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains, by deception, control over property of the owner;
   (C)   Obtains, by threat, control over property of the owner; or
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him or
her to believe that the property was stolen and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing the use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of the
use or benefit.
(Ord. 819, passed 5-13-1969) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04  TRESPASSING.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits criminal trespass to real property when he or
she:
         (a)   Knowingly and without lawful authority enters or remains within
or on a building; or
         (b)   Enters upon the land of another, after receiving prior to the
entry notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is forbidden;
         (c)   Remains upon the land of another, after receiving notice from
the owner or occupant to depart;
         (d)   Presents false documents or falsely represents his or her
identity orally to the owner or occupant of a building or land in order to
obtain permission from the owner or occupant to enter or remain in the building
or on the land;
         (e)   Intentionally removes a notice posted on residential real estate
as required by ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1505.8(l) before the date and time set
forth in the notice; or
         (f)   Enters a field used or capable of being used for growing crops,
an enclosed area containing livestock, an agricultural building containing
livestock, or an orchard in or on a motor vehicle (including an off-road
vehicle, motorcycle, moped, or any other powered two-wheel vehicle) after
receiving, prior to entry, notice from the owner or occupant that the entry is
forbidden or remains upon or in the area after receiving notice from the owner
or occupant to depart.
      (2)   For purposes of this division (A), this section shall not apply to
being in a building which is open to the public while the building is open to
the public during its normal hours of operation, nor shall this section apply
to a person who enters a public building under the reasonable belief that the
building is still open to the public.
   (B)   (1)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within
the meaning of division (A) if the person has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, including a valid court order as defined by ILCS Ch. 725,
Act 5, § 112A-3 granting remedy (2) of ILCS Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-14(b), or if
a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted
or exhibited at the main entrance to the land or the forbidden part thereof.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(3), as an
alternative to the posting of real property as set forth in division (B)(1),
the owner or lessee of any real property may post the property by placing
identifying purple marks on trees or posts around the area to be posted. Each
purple mark shall be:
            1.   A vertical line of at least eight inches in length and the
bottom of the mark shall be no less than three feet nor more than five feet
high. Such marks shall be placed no more than 100 feet apart and shall be
readily visible to any person approaching the property; or
            2.   A post capped or otherwise marked on at least its top two
inches. The bottom of the cap or mark shall be not less than three feet but not
more than five feet six inches high. Posts so marked shall be placed not more
than 36 feet apart and shall be readily visible to any person approaching the
property. Prior to applying a cap or mark which is visible from both sides of a
fence shared by different property owners or lessees, all such owners or
lessees shall concur in the decision to post their own property.
         (b)   Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be construed to authorize
the owner or lessee of any real property to place any purple marks on any tree
or post or to install any post or fence if doing so would violate any
applicable law, rule, ordinance, order, covenant, bylaw, declaration,
regulation, restriction, contract, or instrument.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of the owner’s
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on such land at the request of or by occupancy, leasing, or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or the owner’s agent, nor to anyone
invited by such migrant worker or other person so living on the land to visit
him or her at the place that person is so living upon the land.
   (D)   (1)   A person shall be exempt from prosecution under this section if
the person beautifies unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial
properties located within any municipality.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division (D), UNOCCUPIED AND ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY means any real estate:
         (a)   In which the taxes have not been paid for a period of at least
two years; and
         (b)   Which has been left unoccupied and abandoned for a period of at
least one year.
      (3)   For the purpose of this division (D), BEAUTIFIES means to
landscape, to clean up litter, or to repair dilapidated conditions on, or to
board up windows and doors.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall be liable in any civil action for money damages
to the owner of unoccupied and abandoned residential and industrial property
which that person beautifies pursuant to division (D) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be exempt from
prosecution for criminal trespass for entering, securing, or maintaining an
abandoned residential property.
         (b)   No mortgagee or agent of the mortgagee shall be liable to the
mortgagor or other owner of an abandoned residential property in any civil
action for negligence or civil trespass in connection with entering, securing,
or maintaining the abandoned residential property.
         (c)   For the purpose of this division (E)(2) only, ABANDONED
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means mortgaged real estate that the mortgagee or agent of
the mortgagee determines in good faith meets the definition of abandoned
residential property set forth in ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1200.5.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a person from entering a building or
upon the land of another for emergency purposes.  For purposes of this division
(F), EMERGENCY means a condition or circumstance in which an individual is or
is reasonably believed by the person to be in imminent danger of serious bodily
harm or in which property is or is reasonably believed to be in imminent danger
of damage or destruction.
   (G)   Division (A)(1)(d) of this section does not apply to a peace officer
or other official of a unit of government who enters a building or land in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (H)   (1)   A person may be liable in any civil action for money damages to
the owner of the land he or she entered upon with a motor vehicle as prohibited
under division (A)(3) of this section.  A person may also be liable to the
owner for court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
         (a)   The measure of damages shall be:
            1.   The actual damages, but not less than $250, if the vehicle is
operated in a nature preserve or registered area as defined in §§ 3.11 and 3.14
of the Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act;
            2.   Twice the actual damages if the owner has previously notified
the person to cease trespassing; or
            3.   In any other case, the actual damages, but not less than $50.
         (b)   If the person operating the vehicle is under the age of 16, the
owner of the vehicle and the parent or legal guardian of the minor are jointly
and severally liable.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (H) the following definitions
apply:
         LAND.  Includes but is not limited to land used for crop land, fallow
land, orchard, pasture, feed lot, timber land, prairie land, mine spoil nature
preserves and registered areas.  LAND does not include driveways or private
roadways upon which the owner allows the public to drive. 
         OWNER.  The person who has the right to possession of the land,
including the owner, operator or tenant. 
         VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as provided under Section 1-217 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code.
   (I)   This section does not apply to the following persons while serving
process:
      (1)   A person authorized to serve process under ILCS 735, Act 5, § 2-
202; or
      (2)   A special process server appointed by the circuit court.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Knowingly damage any city property.
      (2)   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosion, damage city property.
      (3)   Knowingly start a fire on city land.
      (4)   Knowingly deposit on city land or in a city building any stink bomb
or any offensive- smelling compound which thereby tends to interfere with the
use by the city of its land or buildings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY means anything of value
including but not limited to real estate, money, commercial instruments,
written instruments representing or embodying rights concerning anything of
value, labor, or services, things affixed to or found on land or part of or
affixed to any building, electricity, gas, or water.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Additional prohibitions; felonies, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1
§ 130.06  CURFEW.
   (A)   Finding and purpose.
      (1)   The City Council hereby finds there has been a significant
breakdown in the supervision and guidance normally provided by certain parents
for juveniles or minors under 18 years of age which has resulted in juveniles
or minors being involved in a wide range of unacceptable behavior including
vandalism, noisy and rowdy behavior, breaking and entering, public drinking of
alcoholic beverages and littering, harassment of residents, and more serious
violent crimes.
      (2)   The City Council further finds that the offensive activities of the
juveniles or minors are not easily controlled by existing laws and ordinances
because the activities are concealed whenever police officers are present and
that the establishment of reasonable curfew regulations will enable the
community and the city to better control the free and unobstructed access to
the sidewalks, streets, and public places by the majority of residents and will
enable the police to act reasonably and fairly to prevent the violation of laws
and ordinances by juveniles or minors.
      (3)   The City Council further finds and has determined that a new and
different curfew ordinance will meet a very real local need and that curfew
ordinances in other communities have been a factor in minimizing juvenile or
minor delinquency. A curfew in the city is particularly appropriate in view of
the basic residential nature of the community and the sense of the community
that there is a proper time for the cessation of outdoor activities of
juveniles or minors. That this attitude of the community is reflected in the
curfew hours declared by this section, which takes into consideration the
danger hours of nocturnal crime.
      (4)   The City Council further finds and has determined that the city is
basically a family community and that parental responsibility for the
whereabouts of children is the accepted norm of a substantial majority of the
community. Legal sanctions to enforce such responsibility have had demonstrated
effectiveness in many communities over the years. The City Council has
determined that as parental control increases there is a likelihood that
juvenile or minor delinquency will decrease, that there is a need for nocturnal
curfew for juveniles or minors in the City of Madison, and that the
establishment of a curfew applicable to juveniles or minors will reinforce the
primary authority and responsibility of parents and guardians over juveniles or
minors in their care and custody.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCOMPANIED.  To go along with or be associated with under individualized
supervision.
      ADULT.  Any person 18 years of age or older.
      ADULT SPONSORED.  Adult persons underwrite or promote an activity and the
adult persons take responsibility for the juvenile or minor.
      ADULT SUPERVISED.  Adult persons are present at the activity and the
adult persons take full responsibility for the juvenile or minor.
      DIRECT ROUTE.  The shortest path of travel through a public place to
reach a final destination, without any detour or stop.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any similar
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.  A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a juvenile or minor or a public or the person of a juvenile or minor or a
public or private agency with whom a juvenile or minor has been placed by a
court.
      IN LOCO PARENTIS.  A person who stands in place of or acts instead of a
parent or is charged, factitiously, with parent’s rights, duties, and
responsibilities.
      JUVENILE.  Any person under the age of 18 or, in equivalence phrasing,
any person 17 years of age or less.
      LOCO PARENTIS.  See IN LOCO PARENTIS.
      MINOR.  See JUVENILE.
      OPERATOR.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT.  A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, step-parent,
or surrogate parent of another person.
      PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.  Evidence that, in the judgment of the law, is
sufficient to establish a given fact, or the group or chain of facts,
constituting the city’s claim and, if not rebutted or contradicted, is
sufficient to sustain a judgment in favor of the issue(s) which it supports.
      PUBLIC.  Relating to or affecting the whole people of the city, state, or
whole community and not limited or restricted to any particular class of the
community.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
vacant lots, common areas of schools, parks, playgrounds, parking lots, public
buildings, public housing developments, hospitals, apartment houses, motels,
hotels, office buildings, transport facilities, shops, shopping centers or
plazas, places of amusement or entertainment, and similar areas that are open
to the use of the public.
      REMAIN.  Means to stay behind, to tarry, and to stay unnecessarily upon
the streets, including the congregating of groups (or of interacting juveniles
or minors) totaling three or more persons in which any juvenile or minor
involved would not be using the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such
as passage or going home. To clarify that, numerous exceptions are expressly
defined in this section so that this is not a mere prohibition of presence of
juveniles or minors. More and more exceptions become available with increasing
years and advancing maturity as appropriate in the interest of reasonable
regulations.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.  Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
      SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for
pedestrian travel in the city, including any grass plots or other grounds found
within such portion of a street, or the walkways for pedestrian travel in a
public place.
      STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel in the city. The term street applies irrespective
of what it is called or formerly named, whether alley, avenue, court, road, or
otherwise. The term street shall also include driveways for vehicular travel in
a public place.
      SURROGATE PARENT.  A person other than a parent who stands in loco
parentis to the child by virtue of his or her voluntary assumption of parental
rights and responsibilities or is appointed by a juvenile court as a child’s
advocate in the educational decision-making process in place of the child’s
natural parents or guardian.
      TIME OF NIGHT.  The prevailing standard of time generally observed at
that hour by the public in the city, prima facie the time then observed in the
City Police Station.
      YEARS OF AGE.  Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to
(but not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday,
making it clear that 17 or less years of age be treated as equivalent to the
phrase “under 18 years of age.”
   (C)   Curfew.  It shall be unlawful for any juvenile or minor to be or
remain in or upon the sidewalks, streets or public places within the city at
night during the period ending at 5 a.m. and beginning at 12 midnight on Friday
and Saturday nights, and at 10 p.m. on all other nights.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   In the following exceptional cases a juvenile or minor in or upon
the sidewalks, streets, or public places within the city during the nocturnal
hours prescribed for juveniles or minors in division (C) above shall not,
however, be considered in violation of this section:
         (a)   When accompanied by a parent of such juvenile or minor;
         (b)   When accompanied by an adult, at least 21 years of age who is
not the parent, and who is authorized by a parent of such juvenile or minor to
take the parent’s place in accompanying the juvenile or minor for a designated
period of time and purpose within a specified area;
         (c)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion or freedom of
speech;
         (d)   When engaging in the duties of bona fide employment or traveling
directly, without undue delay or detour, from home to the place of employment
or from the place of employment to the home;
         (e)   When involved in an emergency;
         (f)   When attending an official school, religious, or recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a public or private
school, a civic organization, a religious organization or another similar
entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile or minor, or going to or
returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school, religious,
or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a public or private school, a civic organization, a religious organization or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the juvenile or minor; or
         (g)   When married, been married, or had the disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense for the owner, operator, or employee of an
establishment to prosecution under division (F) and division (G) below that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a juvenile or minor was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (E)   Responsibility of parent.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person
having the lawful care, custody, and control of any juvenile or minor to allow
or permit such juvenile or minor to violate the curfew hours established by
division (C). The fact that prior to the present offense by such juvenile or
minor a parent of such juvenile or minor was informed by a police officer of
the city of a separate violation of this section by such juvenile or minor
which occurred within one year next preceding the present offense, shall be
prima facie evidence that such parent allowed or permitted the present
violation. Any parent who shall have made a missing person notification to the
Police Department shall not be considered to have allowed or permitted any
person under the age of 18 years to violate this section.
      (2)   This section is intended to hold a neglectful or careless parent of
a juvenile or minor responsible. It shall be no defense that a parent was
indifferent to the activities or conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile or
minor.
   (F)   Responsibility of operators.  It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or organization operating or in charge of any establishment or other place
of business to permit any juvenile or minor to loiter, loaf or idle in such
place of business during the curfew hours established by division (C), except
when accompanied by a parent or other adult person having the care, custody and
control of such juvenile or minor as provided by this section. Whenever the
owner or person in charge or in control of any establishment or other place of
business during the hours prohibited by and in violation of division (C) shall
find juveniles or minors loitering, loafing or idling in such place of
business, he or she shall immediately order such juvenile or minor to leave and
if such juvenile or minor refuses to leave the place of business, the operator
shall immediately notify the Police Department and inform them of the
violation.
   (G)   Responsibility of hotels and the like.  It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating a hotel, motel, lodging or rooming house,
or any agent or servant or employee of such person, firm or corporation
operating a hotel, motel, lodging or rooming house, to permit any juvenile or
minor to visit, loiter, idle, wander or stroll in any portion of such hotel,
motel, lodging or rooming house during the curfew hours established by division
(C), except when accompanied by a parent or other adult person having the care,
custody and control of such juvenile or minor as provided by this section.
   (H)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a juvenile or minor is
in or upon any sidewalk, street, or public place in violation of this section
and before taking any enforcement action under this section, the police officer
shall notify the juvenile or minor that he or she is in violation of this
section and shall require the juvenile or minor to provide his or her name,
age, address, telephone number, how to contact his or her parent, and the
juvenile or minor’s reason for being in or upon the sidewalk, street, or public
place.
      (2)   In determining the age of the juvenile or minor, in the absence of
convincing evidence, a police officer shall use his or her best judgment in
determining age.
      (3)   Every police officer while on duty is hereby authorized to detain
any juvenile or minor violating this section, but shall immediately upon taking
custody of the juvenile or minor notify the parent of the juvenile or minor.
The person so notified shall, as soon as reasonably possible thereafter, report
to the Police Department for the purpose of taking custody of the juvenile or
minor and shall sign a document indicating that such parent is taking custody
of such juvenile or minor.  If the parent cannot be notified or if no response
is received from the parent within a reasonable period of time, the Police
Department shall take whatever action is deemed necessary in the best interest
of the juvenile or minor.
      (4)   In lieu of issuing a citation or making an arrest of a juvenile or
minor in violation of this section, a police officer may contact a parent of
the juvenile or minor and request that the parent either take the juvenile or
minor home or make arrangements for a person over 18 years of age to take the
juvenile or minor home.
      (5)   In the case of a violation of this section by a juvenile or minor,
the police officer shall by certified mail or direct service send or deliver to
a parent written notice of the curfew violation with a warning that any
subsequent violation within one year of the date of the violation will result
in full enforcement of this section, including enforcement of parental
responsibility and of applicable penalties.
      (6)   If it shall appear that any juvenile or minor taken into custody
for a violation of this section is growing up in mendicancy or vagrancy, or is
incorrigible, for lack of a proper parental care or has no home, proper
proceedings shall be taken by the Police Department to have such juvenile or
minor placed in the care of a state institution as provided by law.
   (I)   Penalty.  Any person, firm, corporation, or entity violating any
provision of this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1316, passed 7-16-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Chouteau Island curfew, see §
96.04
   Hours parks, playgrounds, ball diamonds, Fire Station Recreation Are, and
other recreation areas open to the public, see §
96.03
§ 130.07  PAVED MUNICIPAL PARCELS AND LOTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to gather, assemble, congregate and/or
loiter in a group of three or more persons, or to park a motor vehicle on paved
parcels or lots owned by the city as particularly described as follows:
      (1)   1678 - 1682 3rd Street;
      (2)   1700 3rd Street;
      (3)   1800 3rd Street;
      (4)   312 - 320 Madison Avenue;
      (5)   1500 - 1504 7th Street; and
      (6)   1430 - 1440 7th Street.
   (B)   Any person operating or occupying as a passenger a motor vehicle on
said parcel(s) or lot(s) while visiting or attending a business, park or
municipal facility adjacent thereto is exempt from the provisions thereof.
   (C)   Any parcel or lot regulated by this section shall be conspicuously
posted with a sign notifying the public of the applicability of this section.
(Ord. 1765, passed 9-9-2014)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
city for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined not
more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating §
130.01 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $750, for each offense. 
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person and/or soliciting agency violating §
130.02 or any part hereof shall be subjected to the payment of a fine of not
less than $25 or more than $750 for each offense.
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.03 shall, upon being convicted a first time, be fined not less than $5, nor
more than $200.
      (2)   A person convicted of such theft a second or subsequent time, or
after a prior conviction of any type of theft, shall be fined not less than
$200 and not more than $750 for each offense.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
130.07 shall, upon conviction or plea of guilty, be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 and no more than $500.
(Ord. 819, passed 5-13-1969; Am. Ord. 961, passed 4-1-1980; Am. Ord. 1035,
passed 10-25-1983; Am. Ord. 1765, passed 9-9-2014)
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
Deadly Weapons
   
131.01   Unlawful use of weapons
   
131.02   Exemptions
   
131.03   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition
   
131.04   Confiscation and disposition of weapons
Air Rifles
   
131.10   Definitions
   
131.11   Selling, renting, or transferring to children; prohibition
   
131.12   Carrying or discharging on public streets
   
131.13   Permissive possession
   
131.14   Permissive sales
   
131.15   Seizure and removal
Statutory reference:
   Firearms and ammunition registration, ILCS Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01 through
16.3
   Boarding aircraft with weapons, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 545, §§ 0.01 through 7
DEADLY WEAPONS
§ 131.01  UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly:
      (1)   Sell, manufacture, purchase, possess, or carry any bludgeon, black-
jack, slung-shot, sand- club, sand-bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle weapon
regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly referred
to as a switch-blade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring, or other device in the handle of the
knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike blade
as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed gas,
but which shall not be deemed to include crossbows, common or compound bows
and/or underwater spearguns in accordance with ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(e);
      (2)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character;
      (3)   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, any firearm in a church, synagogue, mosque, or other building,
structure, or place used for religious worship;
      (4)   Carry on or about his or her person or in any vehicle, a tear gas
gun projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a non- lethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person 18 years of age or
older;
      (5)   Set a spring gun;
      (6)   (a)   Carry or possess any firearm, stun gun or taser or other
deadly weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or
at any public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental
body or any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a
place where a showing, demonstration, or lecture involving the exhibition of
unloaded firearms is conducted;
         (b)   This subsection does not apply to any auction or raffle of a
firearm held pursuant to a license or permit issued by a governmental body, nor
does it apply to persons engaged in firearm safety training courses; or
      (7)   Sell, manufacture, or purchase any explosive bullet.  EXPLOSIVE
BULLET shall mean the projectile portion of an ammunition cartridge which
contains or carries an explosive charge which will explode upon contact with
the flesh of a human or an animal.  CARTRIDGE means a tubular metal case having
a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap or primer at the rear end
thereof, with the propellant contained in the tube between the projectile and
the cap.
   (B)   A STUN GUN or TASER, as used in division (A), means:
      (1)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a length of wire
and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable of disrupting
the person’s nervous system in such a manner as to render him or her incapable
of normal functioning; or
      (2)   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out a current capable of disrupting the person’s nervous system in
such a manner as to render him or her incapable of normal functioning.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(1)-(3), (5), (8), (11)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning silencers on guns; machine guns; possession of
weapon while hooded, robed and/or masked; or possession of weapons on school or
university grounds (all of which are felonies), see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 24-
1(a)(6), (7), and (9) and § 24-1(c)(2) respectively
§ 131.02  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
131.01(A)(3) does not apply to or affect any of the following:
      (1)   Peace officers or any person summoned by a peace officer to assist
in making arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting
the officer.
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of an offense, while in the performance of their official duty, or while
commuting between their homes and place of employment.
      (3)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard or the Reserve Officers Training Corps,
while in the performance of their official duty.
      (4)   Special agents employed by a railroad or a public utility to
perform police functions or guards of armored car companies while actually
engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment or commuting
between their homes and places of employment; watchmen while actually engaged
in the performance of the duties of their employment.
      (5)   Persons licensed as private security contractors, private
detectives or private alarm contractors or employed by a private security
contractor, private detective, or private alarm contractor agency licensed by
the Department of Professional Regulation if their duties include the carrying
of a weapon under the provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm,
Private Security and Locksmith Act of 2004, while actually engaged in the
performance of the duties of their employment or commuting between their homes
and places of employment.  Persons exempted under this division shall be
required to have completed a course of study in firearms handling and training
approved and supervised by the Department of Professional Regulation as
prescribed by Section 28 of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private
Security and Locksmith Act of 2004, prior to becoming eligible for this
exemption.  The Department of Professional Regulation shall provide suitable
documentation demonstrating the successful completion of the prescribed
firearms training. Such documentation shall be carried at all times when such
persons are in possession of a concealable weapon.
      (6)   Any person regularly employed in a commercial or industrial
operation as a security guard for the protection of persons employed and
private property related to that commercial or industrial operation while
actually engaged in the performance of their duty or traveling between sites or
properties belonging to the employer, and who, as a security guard, is a member
of a security force registered with the Department of Professional Regulation;
provided, that the security guard has successfully completed a course of study,
approved by and supervised by the state Department of Professional Regulation
consisting of not less than 40 hours of training which shall include theory of
law enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of weapons.  A person
shall be considered eligible for this exemption if he or she has completed the
required 20 hours of training for a security officer and 20 hours of required
firearm training and has been issued a firearm authorization card by the state
Department of Professional Regulation. Conditions for the renewal of firearm
authorization cards issued under the provisions of this section shall be the
same as for those cards issued under the provisions of the Private Detective,
Private Alarm, Private Security and Locksmith Act of 2004.  Such firearm
authorization card shall be carried by the security guard at all times when he
or she is in possession of a concealable weapon permitted by his or her firearm
control card.
      (7)   Agents and investigators of the Illinois Legislative Investigating
Commission authorized by the Commission to carry the weapons specified in §
131.01(A)(3) while on duty in the course of any investigation for the
Commission.
      (8)   Persons employed by a financial institution as a security guard for
the protection of other employees and property related to that financial
institution, while actually engaged in the performance of their duties,
commuting between their homes and places of employment, or traveling between
sites or properties owned or operated by the financial institution, and who, as
a security guard, is a member of a security force registered with the
Department; provided that any person so employed has successfully completed a
course of study, approved by and supervised by the state Department of
Professional Regulation, consisting of not less than 40 hours of training which
includes theory of law enforcement, liability for acts, and the handling of
weapons.  A person shall be considered to be eligible for this exemption if he
or she has completed the required 20 hours of training for a security officer
and 20 hours of required firearm training and has been issued a firearm
authorization card by the state Department of Professional Regulation. 
Conditions for renewal of firearm authorization cards issued under the
provisions of this section shall be the same as for those issued under the
provisions of the Private Detective, Private Alarm, Private Security and
Locksmith Act of 2004. The firearm authorization card shall be carried by the
security guard at all times when he or she is in possession of a concealable
weapon permitted by his or her firearm control card. For purposes of this
division, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means a bank, savings and loan association,
credit union, or company providing armored car services.
      (9)   Any person employed by an armored car company to drive an armored
car while actually engaged in the performance of his or her duties.
      (10)   Persons who have been classified as peace officers pursuant to
ILCS Ch. 20, Act 2910, §§ 0.01 et seq.
      (11)   Investigators of the Office of the State’s Attorneys Appellate
Prosecutor authorized by the board of governors of the Office of the State’s
Attorneys Appellate Prosecutor to carry weapons pursuant to ILCS Ch. 725, Act
210, §§ 1 et seq.
      (12)   Special investigators appointed by a State’s Attorney under ILCS
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005.
      (13)   Probation officers while in the performance of their duties, or
while commuting between their homes, places of employment or specific locations
that are part of their assigned duties, with the consent of the chief judge of
the circuit for which they are employed.
      (14)   Court security officers while in the performance of their official
duties or while commuting between their homes and places of employment, with
the consent of the Sheriff.
      (15)   A person employed as an armed security guard at a nuclear energy,
storage, weapons, or development site or facility regulated by the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission who has completed the background screening and training
mandated by the rules and regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
      (16)   Manufacture, transportation, or sale of weapons to persons
authorized under (A)(1) through (14) of this section to possess those weapons.
   (B)   Section
131.01(A)(1) does not apply to the purchase, possession, or carrying of a
black-jack or slung-shot by a police officer.
   (C)   Section
131.01(A)(5) does not apply to any owner, manager, or authorized employee of
any place specified in that division or to any law enforcement officer.
   (D)   Section
131.01(A)(6) does not apply to:
      (1)   Members of the Armed Services or Reserve Forces of the United
States or the Illinois National Guard, while in the performance of their
official duty.
      (2)   Bona fide collectors of antique or surplus military ordinance.
      (3)   Laboratories having a department of forensic ballistics, or
specializing in the development of ammunition or explosive ordnance.
      (4)   Commerce, preparation, assembly, or possession of explosive bullets
by manufacturers of ammunition licensed by the federal government, in
connection with the supply of those organizations and persons exempted by
division (D)(1) above, or like organizations and persons outside this state, or
the transportation of explosive bullets to any organization or person exempted
in this section by a common carrier or by a vehicle owned or leased by an
exempted manufacturer.
   (E)   An information or indictment based upon a violation of any provision
of this subchapter need not negative any exemptions contained in this
subchapter.  The defendant shall have the burden of proving such an exemption.
   (F)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or affect the
transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol or revolver, stun gun,
taser, or other firearm consigned to a common carrier operating under license
with the state or the federal government where such transportation, carrying,
or possession is incident to the lawful transportation in which the common
carrier is engaged. Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit, apply to, or
affect the transportation, carrying, or possession of any pistol, revolver,
stun gun, taser, or other firearm not the subject of and regulated by ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7) or division (B) of this section above, which is
unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box, shipping box, or other
container by the possessor of a valid firearm owner’s identification card.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2(a), (d), (e), (g)-(i))
§ 131.03  UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful possession of firearms or
firearm ammunition when:
      (1)   He or she is under 18 years of age and has in his or her possession
any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the person; or
      (2)   He or she is under 21 years of age, has been convicted of a
misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or adjudged delinquent, and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (3)   He or she is a narcotic addict and has any firearms or firearm
ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (4)   He has been a patient in a mental institution within the past five
years and has any firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession. For
purposes of this division (A)(4):
         (a)   MENTAL INSTITUTION means any hospital, institution, clinic,
evaluation facility, mental health center, or part thereof, which is used
primarily for the care or treatment of persons with mental illness;
         (b)   PATIENT IN A MENTAL INSTITUTION mean the person was admitted,
either voluntarily or involuntarily, to a mental institution for mental health
treatment, unless the treatment was voluntary and solely for an alcohol abuse
disorder and no other secondary substance abuse disorder or mental illness; or
      (5)   He or she is a person with an intellectual disability and has any
firearms or firearm ammunition in his or her possession; or
      (6)   He or she has in his or her possession any explosive bullet.  For
the purposes of this section, EXPLOSIVE BULLET  means the projectile portion of
an ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which
will explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal.  CARTRIDGE 
means a tubular metal case having a projectile fixed at the front thereof and a
cap or primer at the rear end thereof with the propellent contained in the tube
between the projectile and the cap.
   (B)   Unlawful possession of firearms, other than handguns, and firearm
ammunition is punishable under §
130.99.  Unlawful possession of handguns is a felony punishable under
appropriate state law.  The possession of each firearm or firearm ammunition in
violation of this section constitutes a single and separate violation.
   (C)   Nothing in (A)(1) of this section prohibits a person under 18 years of
age from participating in any lawful recreational activity with a firearm such
as, but not limited to, practice shooting at targets upon established public or
private target ranges or hunting, trapping, or fishing in accordance with the
Wildlife Code or the Fish and Aquatic Life Code.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.04  CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS.
   Upon conviction of an offense in which a weapon was used or possessed by the
offender, any weapon seized may be confiscated by the trial court for further
disposition consistent with state law.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6)
AIR RIFLES
§ 131.10  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
131.10et seq., the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   AIR RIFLE. Any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, B-B gun,
paint ball gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm which impels
a breakable paint ball containing washable marking colors or, a pellet
constructed of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a force
that reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm.
   DEALER. Any person, copartnership, association or corporation engaged in the
business of selling at retail or renting any of the articles included in the
definition of AIR RIFLE.
   MUNICIPALITIES. Include cities, villages, incorporated towns and townships.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-0.1)
§ 131.11  SELLING, RENTING, OR TRANSFERRING TO CHILDREN; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   A dealer commits selling, renting, or transferring air rifles to
children when he or she sells, lends, rents, gives or otherwise transfers an
air rifle to any person under the age of 13 years where the dealer knows or has
cause to believe the person to be under 13 years of age or where the dealer has
failed to make reasonable inquiry relative to the age of the person and the
person is under 13 years of age.
   (B)   A person commits selling, renting, or transferring air rifles to
children when he or she sells, gives, lends, or otherwise transfers any air
rifle to any person under 13 years of age except where the relationship of
parent and child, guardian and ward or adult instructor and pupil, exists
between this person and the person under 13 years of age, or where the person
stands in loco parentis to the person under 13 years of age.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.12  CARRYING OR DISCHARGING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   A person under 13 years of age commits carrying or discharging air
rifles on public streets when he or she carries any air rifle on the public
streets, roads, highways or public lands within this state, unless the person
under 13 years of age carries the air rifle unloaded.
   (B)   A person commits carrying or discharging air rifles on public streets
when he or she discharges any air rifle from or across any street, sidewalk,
road, highway or public land or any public place except on a safely constructed
target range.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-2)
§ 131.13  PERMISSIVE POSSESSION.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this subchapter, it is lawful for any
person under 13 years of age to have in his or her possession any air rifle if
it is:
   (A)   Kept within his or her house of residence or other private enclosure;
   (B)   Used by the person and he or she is a duly enrolled member of any
club, team or society organized for educational purposes and maintaining as
part of its facilities or having written permission to use an indoor or outdoor
rifle range under the supervision guidance and instruction of a responsible
adult and then only if the air rifle is actually being used in connection with
the activities of the club team or society under the supervision of a
responsible adult; or
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when the air rifle is fired, discharged or operated in a manner as not to
endanger persons or property and then only if it is used in a manner as to
prevent the projectile from passing over any grounds or space outside the
limits of the grounds or residence.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-3)
§ 131.14  PERMISSIVE SALES.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not prohibit sales of air rifles:
   (A)   By wholesale dealers or jobbers;
   (B)   To be shipped out of the state; or
   (C)   To be used at a target range operated in accordance with §
131.13 or by members of the Armed Services of the United States or veterans’
organizations.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-4)
§ 131.15  SEIZURE AND REMOVAL.
   Any police officer shall seize, take, remove, or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner, any air rifle sold or used in any manner in violation of
this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-5)
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Litter
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
132.03   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
132.04   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
132.05   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
132.06   Receptacles required in public areas
   
132.07   Power of court to order removal of litter
Drug Paraphernalia
   
132.20   Definitions
   
132.21   Offenses and penalties
   
132.22   Civil forfeiture
Cannabis or Other Illegal Substances
   
132.30   Definitions
   
132.31   Prohibitions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
LITTER
§ 132.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of §§
132.01 through
132.07 the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings
ascribed to them respectively.
   LITTER.  Any discarded, used, or unconsumed substance or waste.  LITTER may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings, or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle, as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et
seq., motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any
nauseous or offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to injure any
person or create a traffic hazard, potentially infectious medical waste as
defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360; or anything else of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature, which has been discarded, abandoned, or otherwise disposed
of improperly.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  As defined in Ch. 71 of this Code of Ordinances.
§ 132.02  DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause, or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding, or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this city, or upon or into any
river, lake, pond, or other stream or body of water in this village unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the state Pollution
Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container intended
by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of
litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance, or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter, including but not limited to potentially infectious
medical waste as defined in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360, when the emergency
situation no longer exists.
   (B)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person who
is convicted of violating this section.
   (C)   An individual convicted of this section by disposing of litter upon a
public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required to maintain
litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that highway,
including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over the section
of highway in question, the site where the offense occurred, as provided in
Section 50 of the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway Act.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 4 and 8)
§ 132.03  DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream, or
body of water in this city except as permitted under §
132.02 (A)(1) through (5).  Nor shall any person transport, by any means,
garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business, farm, or
other site to and deposit the material in, around, or on top of trash barrels
or other receptacles placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
   (B)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person who
is convicted of violating this section.
   (C)   An individual convicted of this section by disposing of litter upon a
public highway may, in addition to any other penalty, be required to maintain
litter control for 30 days over a designated portion of that highway,
including, at the discretion of the agency having jurisdiction over the section
of highway in question, the site where the offense occurred, as provided in
Section 50 of the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway Act.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 5 and 8)
§ 132.04  ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of
which the person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as
to constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be
blown or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of
another person.
   (B)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person who
is convicted of violating this section.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, §§ 6 and 8)
§ 132.05  PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped, or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated
§ 132.03, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9)
§ 132.06  RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this chapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation, or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained receptacles for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE
TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS includes, but is not limited to commercially operated
parks, campgrounds, drive-in restaurants, automobile service stations, business
parking lots, car washes, shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas,
industrial parking lots, boat moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and
bathing areas, airports, roadside rest stops, drive-in movies, and shopping
malls;  and PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR ASSEMBLAGE, RECREATION, OR AS A
PUBLIC WAY includes, but is not limited to any property that is publicly owned
or operated for any of the purposes stated in the definition in this division
for PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS  but
excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas located thereon.
   (C)   If no litter receptacles are placed on property described in this
section, the owner or person in control of the property shall be fined $100 for
violating this section.  If the owner or person in control of the property has
placed litter receptacles on his or her property but the number or size of the
receptacles has proved inadequate to meet the needs of the numbers of people
coming on or using his or her  property as indicated by the condition and
appearance of that property, and the owner or person in control has failed to
provide sufficient or adequate receptacles within ten days after being made
aware of that fact by written notice from the police, he or she shall be fined
$25 for each receptacle not so provided and maintained.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10)
§ 132.07  POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   (A)   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not
in lieu of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties, or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court.
   (B)   A mandatory minimum fine of $50 must be imposed against any person who
is convicted of violating this section.
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8)
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 132.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.  The term includes, but is not limited to, Cannabis,
as Cannabis is defined in the Cannabis Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 3
et seq., and "controlled substances" as the term is used in the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 102 et seq.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.  All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of the
Controller Substance Act of this state, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.,
or in violation of other state or federal laws. It includes, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagation, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devised, used, intended for use, or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is or contains a
controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of any
controlled substance;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring any controlled substance;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dexterous and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding any controlled substance;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of any controlled
substance;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in paranterally injected controlled substances into
the human body;
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as marijuana cigarettes, that have become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs;
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers;
         (n)   Glass tubes designed for smoking "crack" or similar substances,
approximately four inches in length and up to a half inch in diameter. Said
tubes are sold singularly or also as packaging for certain novelty items,
including, but not limited to, miniature roses.
(Ord. 1687, passed 5-1-2007)
§ 132.21  OFFENSES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Possession of drug paraphernalia.  It is unlawful for any person to
use, or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, re-pack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia.  It is unlawful for any
person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, ingest, inhale, or otherwise
introduced into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor.  Any person 18 years of age
or over who violates division (B) of this section by delivering drug
paraphernalia to a person under 18 years of age is guilty of special offense
and upon conviction may be fined not more than $750 nor less than $25.
   (D)   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia.  It is unlawful for any person to
place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any
advertisement, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote
the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 1687, passed 5-1-2007)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.22  CIVIL FORFEITURE.
   All drug paraphernalia as defined in §
132.20 shall be subject to forfeiture under the Illinois Revised Statutes,
including but not limited to the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 600, §§ 1 et seq.
(Ord. 1687, passed 5-1-2007)
CANNABIS OR OTHER ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES
§ 132.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa, whether growing
or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and
any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such
plant, its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives,  including the naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly or by extraction,
or independently by means of chemical syntheses; but shall not include the
mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made
from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such plant
which is incapable of germination.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession of cannabis, with or without consideration, whether or not there is
an agency relationship.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other
than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in § 10 of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, which are intended to be
used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting,
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis in
violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act, as amended from time to time.
It includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing cannabis;
      (2)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing
the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis;
      (3)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home
for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
cannabis;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
cannabis by private persons;
      (5)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body
including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes;
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Carburetor pipes;
         (e)   Electric pipes;
         (f)   Air driven pipes;
         (g)   Chillums;
         (h)   Bongs.
      (6)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section; or
      (7)   Any other item defined as DRUG PARAPHERNALIA by the Drug
Paraphernalia Control Act, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1801, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 132.31  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess, use or
deliver any cannabis, any substance containing cannabis, or any other substance
the use and/or possession of which is illegal under any Illinois statute or
code of city ordinance ("the illegal substance"). This section shall only apply
to possession, use, and delivery of such substance in an amount not exceeding
ten grams.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use, suffer, permit,
or allow the violation of the provisions of this section in any motor vehicle,
vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area of which
such person is the owner, lessee, permittee, bailee, legal possessor, or
occupier thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit his or her
residence to be used by an invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward
in a manner that constitutes a violation of this section. A parent or guardian
is deemed to have permitted his or her residence to be used in violation of
this section if he or she knowingly authorizes, enables, or permits such use to
occur by failing to control access to the residence.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in any motor vehicle,
vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area when said
person knows or reasonably should know, that one or more other persons located
in such motor vehicle, vessel, house, apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or
other area are in possession of cannabis, any substance containing cannabis
prohibited by Illinois statute, or other illegal substance.
   (E)   Whenever a person is present within any motor vehicle, vessel, house,
apartment, room, shed, yard, premises, or other area of which such person is
the owner, lessee, permitee, bailee, legal possessor, or occupier at the time
that a violation of the provisions of this section occurs therein, said
presence shall be prima facie evidence that such person had knowledge of such
violation.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this subchapter to the contrary,
pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, as it
may be amended from time to time ("the Act"), the immunities and presumptions
set forth in the Act related to the medical use of cannabis are hereby
incorporated herein by reference to the extent applicable.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person who knowingly possesses an item of
drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body, or in preparing cannabis
for that use, is guilty of a violation of this section. This division does not
apply to a person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or
needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
(Ord. 1801, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates §
132.21 is guilty of a crime and upon conviction may be fined not more than $750
nor less than $25.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
132.30 or
132.31 shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each and every
violation therein.
(Ord. 1687, passed 5-1-2007; Am. Ord. 1801, passed 10-18-2016)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
133.01   Child sex offenders residence prohibitions
§ 133.01  CHILD SEX OFFENDERS RESIDENCE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The following definitions apply to this section.
      (1)   CHILD SEX OFFENDER.  Includes any person required to register his
or her residence address with any state, or with the federal government, as a
result of his or her conviction as a sex offender, where the victim of that sex
offense was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense. A CHILD SEX
OFFENDER includes, but is not limited to, any person required to register under
the Illinois Sex Offender Registration Act, ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150, § 1 et seq.,
as now or as hereafter amended, where the victim was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense. A CHILD SEX OFFENDER further includes, but is not
limited to, any person who has been convicted of any of the following statutory
offenses, or convicted of attempting to commit any of the following statutory
offenses, as now or hereafter amended, involving a victim under the age of 18
years:
         (a)   Sexual exploitation of a child (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-9.1);
         (b)   Predatory criminal sexual assault of a child (ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5, § 12-14.1);
         (c)   Indecent solicitation of a child (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6);
         (d)   Public indecency committed on school property (ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5, § 11-9);
         (e)   Child luring (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 10-5(b)(10));
         (f)   Aiding and abetting child abduction (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 10-
7 or ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 10-5(b)(10));
         (g)   Soliciting for a juvenile prostitute (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-
15.1);
         (h)   Patronizing a juvenile prostitute (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-
18.1);
         (i)   Exploitation of a child (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-19.2);
         (j)   Child pornography (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-20.1);
         (k)   Criminal sexual assault (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-13);
         (l)   Aggravated criminal sexual assault (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-
14);
         (m)   Aggravated criminal sexual abuse (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-16);
         (n)   Kidnaping or aggravated kidnaping (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 10-
1 or 10-2);
         (o)   Unlawful restraint or aggravated unlawful restraint (ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, §§ 10-3 or 10-3.1).
      (2)   SCHOOL.  Any real property used primarily for educational or child
care purposes, including but not limited to, elementary schools, middle
schools, high schools, dance studios, licensed child day care facilities, and
pre-schools.
      (3)   LOITER.  Standing or sitting idly, whether or not the person is in
a vehicle or remaining in or around property that is from time-to-time
frequented by persons under the age of 18 years.
      (4)   PARK.  Any playground, walking track, athletic field, gymnasium,
basketball court, baseball diamond, or other real estate owned or controlled by
a school or unit of a local government, that is designated primarily for
recreation. The term PARK includes ancillary restrooms and vehicle parking lots
designated for use primarily by park patrons or school students and their
families.
      (5)   PUBLIC POOL.  Any parcel of real estate containing any natatorium
or other improved real estate, designated or intended for swimming, water
recreation, or water sports, whether operated or owned by a public entity, or
to which memberships are sold to the public.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to reside within 500 feet of
any of the following:
      (1)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons under
the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The real property comprising any park; or
      (3)   Any public pool.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any child sex offender to loiter on any public
property, public right-of-way, or area designated for parking of motor
vehicles, within 500 feet of any of the following, unless the person loitering
is with a child under the age of 18 years and the person loitering is a parent,
step-parent, aunt, uncle, cousin, sibling, or step-sibling, of that child is
under the age of 18 years:
      (1)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons under
the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The real property comprising any park; or
      (3)   Any public pool.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person, corporation, business, partnership,
trust, manager, or other entity, to enter into any lease agreement, or to renew
any lease agreement, letting residential real estate to a child sex offender,
where the lot line of the residential property is within 500 feet of any of the
following:
      (1)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons under
the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The real property comprising any park; or
      (3)   Any public pool.
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating divisions (B) or (C) of this
section shall be subject to a fine of between $50 and $750, with each day a
violation continues constituting a separate offense. Any person, corporation,
business, partnership, trust, manager, or other entity guilty of violating
division (D) of this section shall be subject to a fine of between $50 and
$750, revocation of business license, or both. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. Any person, corporation, business,
partnership, trust, manager, or other entity violating division (D) of this
section shall be presumed to have had knowledge of the tenant's status as a
child sex offender, where that tenant's name, photo, or other identifying
information appears on the Illinois State Police statewide sex offender
database, as published on the internet on the Illinois State Police World Wide
Web home page, per the Sex Offender and Child Murderer Community Notification
Law, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 152, § 101 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (F)   In the event a court of competent jurisdiction should declare the
terms of any portion of this section invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of
this section shall remain in full force and effect.
   (G)   All distances designated in this section shall be measured from the
lot line of the park property, public pool property, or school property, and
from the lot line of the subject residence.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a child sex offender from residing
within 500 feet of any property, if that residence is owned or leased by the
child sex offender before the effective date of this section.  This section is
intended to apply to and to prevent such new residential lease agreements, and
renewals of expired residential leases, entered into after the effective date
of this section.  This section shall take effect 30 days after passage.
   (I)   The restrictions against child sex offenders in this section, shall
apply to any child sex offender for ten full years after the final day of his
or her last parole, discharge, or release from confinement in any penal
institution or hospital, whichever is latest. Where a child sex offender was
never confined in any penal institution, hospital or such facility, said ten
years shall run from the date of his or her last felony conviction.
(Ord. 1666, passed 5-2-2006)
   TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   MOBILE HOMES
      
155.   ZONING
         
APPENDIX A:   CORNERS
         
APPENDIX B:   LOTS
         
APPENDIX C:   SIGN AREA
         
APPENDIX D:   TIEDOWN REQUIREMENTS
         
APPENDIX E:   MINIMUM DISTRICT REGULATIONS
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
APPENDIX A:  BASIC TYPES OF LOTS
         
APPENDIX B:   ILLUSTRATION OF A TYPICAL LOT
         
APPENDIX C:   SIGHT LINES AT CORNERS
         
APPENDIX D:   HORIZONTAL CURVES
         
APPENDIX E:   REVERSE CURVES
         
APPENDIX F:   TYPICAL STREET CROSS SECTION
         
APPENDIX G:   CURB AND GUTTER
         
APPENDIX H:   INLETS
         
APPENDIX I:   CURB RAMPS
      
157.   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITE APPROVAL
      
158.   CANNABIS
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Land Use Plan
   
150.01   Adoption of future plan
Enforcement; Hearing Procedure
   
150.15   Adoption of state regulations
   
150.16   Definitions
   
150.17   Code Hearing Department
   
150.18   Code hearing procedure
   
150.19   Subpoenas
   
150.20   Default
   
150.21   Continuances; representations
   
150.22   Evidence at hearings
   
150.23   Retaliatory action against occupants prohibited
   
150.24   Defenses
   
150.25   Findings, decisions and orders
   
150.26   Fines and sanctions
   
150.27   Administrative review law to apply
   
150.28   Dispositions of violations
   
150.29   Sanctions and findings to run with property
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of Building Code, see §
151.02
   Minimum Housing Standards, see
Ch. 152
   Playground and Recreation System, see §
96.01
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 91
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
LAND USE PLAN
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF FUTURE PLAN.
   The comprehensive future land use plan for the areas within the corporate
boundaries of the city and located in Sections 31 and 32, T3N, R9W, S36, T3N,
R10W and S6, T2N, R9W of the 3rd Principal Meridian, Madison County and St.
Clair County, Illinois, as designated on the map captioned "Proposed Future
Land Use Map" and prepared by John H. Hales, Illinois Professional Land
Surveyor, No. 2929, in October 1997 as Job No. 251684, as revised by Ordinance
1621, passed July 29, 2003, and Ordinance 1631, passed March 9, 2004, copies of
which are incorporated herein by reference, shall be and hereby are approved
and adopted.
(Ord. 1392, passed 1-27-1998; Am. Ord. 1621, passed 7-29-2003; Am. Ord. 1631,
passed 3-9-2004)
ENFORCEMENT; HEARING PROCEDURE
§ 150.15  ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   Division 31.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31.1,
captioned “Building Code Violations,” as it now exists and as it may be amended
from time to time, shall be and hereby is adopted by the city.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  A full-time city employee whose duties include the
inspection or examination of structures or property in the city to determine if
zoning or other code violation exist.
   CODE.  Any city zoning, trash, debris, building or housing code or ordinance
that establishes zoning, construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire
prevention, sanitation or other health and safety standards that are applicable
to structures in a city.
   HEARING OFFICER.  A city employee or an officer or agent of the city, other
than the City Building Inspector, any other city inspector, or city law
enforcement officer, whose duty it is to:
      (1)   Preside at an administrative hearing called to determine whether or
not a code violation exists;
      (2)   Hear testimony and accept evidence from city employees issuing or
regarding the code violation, Inspector, the building owner and all interested
parties relevant to the existence of a Code violation;
      (3)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      (4)   Issue and sign a written finding, decision and order stating
whether a code violation exists.
   PROPERTY OWNER.  The legal or beneficial owner of a structure.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.17  CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Code Hearing Department, the function of
which is to expedite the presentation and correction of code violations in the
manner set out in 65 ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1, et seq., and this
subchapter.
   (B)   The adoption of this subchapter does not preclude the city from using
other lawful methods to enforce the provisions of its code.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint a Hearing Officer or Officers, with the
approval of the City Council, on an annual basis, from May 1 to April 30 next
following, or to complete the balance of the term of a duly appointed Hearing
Officer.
   (D)   The compensation to be paid the Hearing Officer shall be determined by
separate ordinance.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.18  CODE HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When a Building Inspector finds a code violation while inspecting a
property, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation
notice and report form, indicating the name and address of the property owner,
the type and nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was
observed, the names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the
property where the violation is observed.
   (B)   The violation report form shall be forwarded by the Building Inspector
to the Code Hearing Department where a docket number shall be stamped on all
copies of the report, and a hearing date noted in the blank spaces provided for
that purpose on the form. The hearing date shall not be less than 30 days nor
more than 40 days after the violation is reported by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   One copy of the violation report form shall be maintained in the files
of the Code Hearing Department and shall be part of the record of hearing, one
copy of the report form shall be returned to the Building Inspector so that he
or she may prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the
hearing on the date indicated, and one copy of the report form shall be served
by first class mail on the property owner along with a summons commanding the
property owner to appear at the hearing. If the name of the property owner of
the structure cannot be ascertained or if service on the property owner cannot
be made by mail, service may be made on the property owner by posting or
nailing a copy of the code violation report form on the front door of the
structure where the code violation is found, not less than 20 days before the
hearing is scheduled.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.19  SUBPOENAS.
   At any time prior to the hearing date the Hearing Officer assigned to hear
the case may, at the request of the Building Inspector or the attorney for the
city, or the property owner or his or her attorney, issue subpoenas directing
witnesses to appear and give testimony at the hearing.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.20  DEFAULT.
   If on the date set for hearing the property owner or his or her attorney
fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the property owner in default and
shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of
a code violation.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.21  CONTINUANCES; REPRESENTATIONS.
   No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing Officer in proceedings
under this subchapter except in cases where a continuance is absolutely
necessary to protect the rights of the property owner. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance authorized by a Hearing
Officer under this section shall not exceed 25 days. The case for the city may
be presented by the Building Inspector, by any other city employee or by an
attorney designated by the city. However, in no event shall the case for the
city be presented by an employee of the Code Hearing Department. The case for
the property owner may be presented by the owner, his or her attorney, or any
other agent or representative.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.22  EVIDENCE AT HEARINGS.
   At the hearing, a Hearing Officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and
accept and evidence relevant to the existence or nonexistence of a code
violation relating to a property or structure indicated. The strict rules of
evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply to hearings
authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.23  RETALIATORY ACTION AGAINST OCCUPANTS PROHIBITED.
   No action for eviction, abatement of a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer
or other similar proceeding shall be threatened or instituted against an
occupant of a dwelling solely because such occupant agrees to testify or
testifies at a code violation hearing.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.24  DEFENSES.
   It shall be a defense to a code violation charge under this subchapter if
the property owner, his or her attorney, or any other agent or representative
proves to the Hearing Officer’s satisfaction that:
   (A)   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at
the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed;
   (B)   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupant(s)
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the property owner to maintain the
dwelling free of such violations, the current occupant (s) continue to cause
the violations;
   (C)   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the
property owner or his or her agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the
purpose of correcting the code violation.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.25  FINDINGS, DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   At the conclusion of the hearing the Hearing Officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether or
not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as “findings, decision, and order.” The findings, decision, and
order shall include the Hearing Officer’s finding of fact, a decision whether
or not a code violation exists based upon the findings of facts, and an order
ordering the property owner to correct the violation or dismissing the case in
the event a violation is not proved.
   (B)   If a code violation is proved, the order may also impose the sanctions
that are provided in the code for the violation proved. A copy of the findings,
decision, and order shall be served on the property owner within five days
after it is issued; service shall be in the same manner as the report form and
summons are served pursuant to §
150.18(C) above. Payment of any penalty or fine and the disposition of fine
money shall be in the same manner as set forth in the code and this subchapter.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.26  FINES AND SANCTIONS.
   The city adopts by reference all current and future city ordinances, and
those provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31.1-1, et seq., governing
property or zoning codes applicable to structures or properties relative to
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation and
other health and safety standards in the city, for its enforcement and
adjudication within the geographical boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.27  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW TO APPLY.
   The findings, decision, and order of the Hearing Officer shall be subject to
review in the Circuit Court of Madison County, Illinois, and the provisions of
the Administrative Review Act (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.), and all
amendments and modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto
are adopted and shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review
of the final findings, decision, and order of a Hearing Officer under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.28  DISPOSITIONS OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction or costs imposed remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the
failure to properly invoke, judicial review procedures under the Administrative
Review Act shall be a debt due and owing the city and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period for judicial review under the
Administrative Review Act may be sought for a final determination of the code
violation, the city may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court for purposes
of obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the city from consolidating multiple findings, decisions,
and orders against a person in such a proceeding. Upon commencement of the
action, the city shall file a certified copy of each included findings,
decision, and order, which shall be accompanied by a certification that recites
facts sufficient to show that the findings, decision, and order was issued in
accordance with this subchapter and applicable state law. Service of the
summons and a copy of the petition may be made on the property owner(s) by any
method provided by Section 2-203 of the Code of Civil Procedure, ILCS Ch. 735,
Act 5, § 2-203, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, provided that
the total amounts of fines, other sanctions and costs imposed by the findings,
decision, and order does not exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
§ 150.29  SANCTIONS AND FINDINGS TO RUN WITH PROPERTY.
   The order to correct a code violation and the sanctions imposed by the city
as the result of a finding of a code violation under this subchapter shall
attach to the property as well as to the property owner so that a finding of a
code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring
the property to another owner. Any subsequent transferee or owner of property
takes subject to the findings, decision, and order of a Hearing Officer under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1416, passed 4-21-1998)
CHAPTER 151:  GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Inspections for certain housing
   
151.02   Adoption of building code
   
151.03   Property numbering
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  INSPECTIONS FOR CERTAIN HOUSING.
   (A)   Upon the application of any resident of the city for a housing
inspection to determine the resident’s ability to qualify for a federal
preference, as provided for by federal law and regulations, for public housing
and/or the Section 8 Housing Assistance program, the Building Inspector of the
city shall conduct an inspection of the applicant’s housing to determine if it
is substandard housing as determined by federal law and regulations and certify
the substandard housing, if found, to the County Housing Authority.
   (B)   There shall be a fee of $25 for each inspection to determine
substandard housing for federal preference, which fee shall be paid at the time
of the application the inspection.
(Ord. 1240, passed 5-10-1994)
§ 151.02  ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Clerk, being marked and designated as “The 2006 International
Building Code” hereinafter referred to as the “Building Code,” be and is hereby
adopted as the building code of the city, for the control of buildings,
structures and premises as therein provided and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the 2006
International Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions, changes, if any described in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Amendments. The following sections in the Building Code are hereby
revised as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1: Insert in this Section the phrase: “. . .the City of
Madison, Illinois,. . .” in place of “. . .(NAME OF JURISDICTION). . .” so that
this Section now reads as follows:
      “101.1 Title: These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of
the City of Madison, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as ‘this code.’”
      (2)   Subparagraph 121.2.1 Qualifications shall be and hereby is deleted
in its entirety from Section 121.0 MEANS OF APPEAL; and the phrase “. . . shall
possess the qualifications required for board membership, and. . .” located
immediately after the words “Alternate members” at the beginning of the second
sentence in Subparagraph 121.2.2 Alternate members shall be and hereby are
deleted so that said Subparagraph now reads as follows:
      “121.2.2 Alternate members: The chief appointing authority shall appoint
two alternate members who shall be called by the board chairman to hear appeals
during the absence or disqualification of a member. Alternate members shall be
appointed for five years or until a successor has been appointed.”
      (3)   Section 112.3.1:  Insert in this Section the following building
permit fee schedule in place of “. . . (JURISDICTION TO INSERT APPROPRIATE
SCHEDULES) . . .” so that this Section now reads as follows:
CITY OF MADISON, ILLINOIS
PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
A. In addition to the following fees, all fees and costs for professional expertise
needed by the city to perform inspections on its behalf shall be added to and included
in such fees
B. Construction, alteration, additions, repair or maintenance of buildings and
structures:
  1. Single-family and multiple-family residential structure and accessory structures
      a.  Less than $1,000                                              $25
                                                                            $50 plus
      b.  $1,000 or more                                                $5/1,000
                                                                            over
                                                                            $1,000
                                                                            $100/1st
                                                                            $10,000
    2. Commercial and Industrial                                          plus $5/
                                                                            $1,000
                                                                            over
                                                                            $10,000
    3. Decks, ramps and accessory building (including non- residential)   $40
    4.  Fence permit                                                     $40
    5.  Boilers                                                          $50
    6.  Mechanical (heating and air conditioning)                        $25
Inspection fee if failed after second inspection                            $25
    7.  Solar                                                            $50
    8.  Residential roof permits                                         $50
    9.  Commercial roof permits                                          $75
C. Removal or demolition of buildings and structures                        $50
D.  Relocation of buildings or structures                                  $75
E.  Excavation/locating (dig permit)                                       $20
                                                                            Rate
                                                                            charged by
F.  Plumbing inspection                                                    licensed
                                                                            plumbing
                                                                            inspector
                                                                            $35 plus
G.  Electrical inspection (for service only)                               $15/100
                                                                            additional
                                                                            amps
H.  Sewer line tap-on inspection/sewage disposal system                    $200
I.  Lateral inspection fee                                                 $50
J.  Temporary utility/work permit                                          $25
K.  Certificate of occupancy (includes initial and final inspection)
                                                                            $60 plus
                                                                            $20 for
                                                                            each
   1.   Unfurnished and unoccupied premise                            inspection
                                                                            after 2nd
                                                                            failed
                                                                            inspection
                                                                            100 plus
                                                                            $20 for
                                                                            each
   2.   Furnished or occupied                                         inspection
                                                                            after 2nd
                                                                            failed
                                                                            inspection
   3.   Pre-inspections                                               $75
L.  Mobile home courts/parks, including water, pad, sewers, electrical and $50 per
incidentals                                                                 pad
M.  Mobile homes as granted by a special use permit                        $.25/s.f.
N.  Swimming pools (including electrical inspection and certificate of     $35
occupancy)
                                                                            $50/1st
                                                                            $5,000
                                                                            plus $3/
O.  Radio towers, bleachers, and miscellaneous structures                  $1,000 of
                                                                            estimated
                                                                            costs over
                                                                            $5,000
                                                                            $25/1st 25
                                                                            s.f. plus
                                                                            $.25/s.f.
P.  Commercial and industrial signs/billboards                             over 25
                                                                            s.f. or
                                                                            $2/$1,000,
                                                                            whichever
                                                                            is more
Q.  Miscellaneous typed letters.                                           $30
   There shall be no refunds on permits once application filed with city
 
      (4)   Section 116.4: Replace the language in this Section with the
following:
      “116.4 Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision of
this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of
an approved plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provision of this code, shall be guilty of an
Ordinance violation, punishable by a fine of not more than $750 for each
offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.”
      (5)   Section 117.2: Insert in this Section the phrase “. . .Two Hundred
Fifty Dollars ($250) . . .” in place of the first “. . .(AMOUNT). . .” and the
phrase “. . .Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750). . .” in place of the second “.
. .(AMOUNT). . .” so that said Section now reads as follows:
      “117.2  Unlawful continuance: Any person who shall continue any work in
or about the structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation of unsafe
condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than Two Hundred Fifty Dollars
($250) or more than Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750).”
      (6)   Section 119.1 Conditions: Insert at the end of this Section the
following paragraph:
      “...In order for a vacant structure to be deemed secured against entry,
the following minimum requirements shall be met:
         1. FIRST FLOOR AND BASEMENT WINDOWS
         Secure window opening by attaching ½ inch plywood to exterior of
window with four ½ inch diameter carriage bolts running through window
openings, to two 2” x 4” cleats positioned across window frame on inside.
Secure bolts with washers and nuts on inside. NOTE: The upper and lower sashes
will have to be positioned in the middle to allow passage for attaching bolts.
Storm sashes will also have to be repositioned or removed as necessary.
         2. SECOND FLOOR WINDOWS
         Secure window openings by attaching 5/16 inch plywood to exterior
window frames with 6d duplex nails.
         3. DOOR OPENINGS
         One entrance shall be secured with ½ inch plywood, 3 strap hinges
mounted on inside, and heavy duty hasp. Hinges and hasp shall be bolted with
carriage bolts to plywood. Plywood shall be reinforced vertically with 2x4 on
inside of hasp side. Attach hinges and hasp with 3 inch screws through jamb to
studs. All additional door openings shall be secured in the same manner as the
first floor windows (bolts and cleats). This will require moving and storing
existing prime doors and storm doors.
         4. COVERING WINDOWS OR DOORS OF VACANT STRUCTURES
         For any window or door of a vacant structure that is covered with wood
or a similar non-penetrable material, such wood or non-penetrable covering
shall be painted dark brown or the color of the exterior of the vacant
structure.”
      (7)   Section 3408.2: Insert in this Section the phrase “. . .February 1,
1998,. . .” in place of “. . .(DATE TO BE INSERTED. . .WITHIN THE
JURISDICTION). . .” so that this Section now reads as follows:
      “3408.2  Applicability:  Structures existing prior to February 1, 1998,
in which there is work involving additions, alterations or changes of
occupancy, shall be made to conform to the requirements of this section or the
provisions of Section 3403.0 through 3407.0.
         The provisions in Sections 3408.2.1 through 3408.2.5 shall apply to
existing occupancies that will continue to be, or are proposed to be, in Use
Groups A, B, E, F, M, and R and S. These provisions shall not apply to
buildings with occupancies in Use Group H or I.”
(Ord. 1389, passed 12-30-1997; Am. Ord. 1400, passed 2-10-1998; Am. Ord. 1474,
passed 1-12-1999; Am. Ord. 1481, passed 3-23-1999; Am. Ord. 1608, passed 3-25-
2003; Am. Ord. 1692, passed 9-4-2007; Am. Ord. 1717, passed 11-10-2009)
§ 151.03  PROPERTY NUMBERING.
   All buildings, residential or commercial, within the city shall be
numbered.  It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every building in
the city to have placed upon the front side of the building between the front
of the building and the improved portion of the street in a place visible from
the street, figures at least three inches high showing the number of the
structure.
(Ord. 1453, passed 8-11-1998) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
city for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall be fined not
more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person or business entity, firm or corporation, whether by
principal agent, officer, employee or otherwise, violating any provision of
§ 151.03 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1453, passed 8-11-1998)
CHAPTER 152:  MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Intent and purpose
   
152.002   Applicability
   
152.003   Interpretation; conflict
   
152.004   Rules and definitions
Safety and Sanitary Requirements
   
152.015   General standards
   
152.016   Basements and cellars
   
152.017   Facilities, equipment and chimneys
   
152.018   Floors, interior walls and ceilings
   
152.019   Foundations, exterior walls and roofs
   
152.020   Grading and drainage of lots
   
152.021   Infestation
   
152.022   Windows, doors and hatchways
   
152.023   Screens
   
152.024   Broken glass; boarding
   
152.025   Stairways and porches
   
152.026   Yards
Space and Occupancy Requirements
   
152.035   Ceiling heights and sleeping rooms
   
152.036   Basement rooms
Light and Ventilation
   
152.045   Illumination
   
152.046   Natural lighting
   
152.047   Ventilation requirements
Basic Equipment and Facilities
   
152.060   Electrical services
   
152.061   Minimum requirements
   
152.062   Hazard
   
152.063   Refuse, garbage and rubbish
   
152.064   Heating
   
152.065   Water heating facilities
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.075   Enforcement Officer
   
152.076   Permits
   
152.077   Fees
   
152.078   Emergency measures
   
152.079   Noncompliance; notice
   
152.080   Placards on buildings
   
152.081   Vacations of buildings
   
152.082   Removal of placards
   
152.083   Right of appeal
   
152.084   Noncompliance; remedy of defects
   
152.085   Condemned buildings
   
152.086   Securing vacated buildings
   
152.087   Transfer of ownership of noncomplying buildings
   
152.088   Notice to city of successor of existing utility service
Boards of Appeals
   
152.100   Jurisdiction
   
152.101   Authority to make repairs
   
152.102   Procedure for filing appeals
   
152.103   Appeals
   
152.104   Powers
   
152.105   Review of Board decisions
   
152.106   Appeal fee disposition
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The intent and purpose of this housing code is to protect the
public health, safety, comfort, morals and the general welfare of the people of
the city.
      (2)   These general objectives include, among others, the following
specific purposes:
         (a)   To protect the character and stability of residential areas
within the city;
         (b)   To provide minimum standards for cooking, heating and sanitary
equipment necessary to the health and safety of occupants of buildings;
         (c)   To provide facilities for light and ventilation, necessary to
health and safety;
         (d)   To prevent additions or alterations to existing dwellings that
would be injurious to the life, health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants of the dwellings or neighboring properties;
         (e)   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings by providing minimum
space standards per occupant of each dwelling unit;
         (f)   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings to prohibit the spread of slums and blight; and
         (g)   To preserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this code shall be deemed to abolish or impair existing
remedies of the municipality or its officers or agencies relating to the
removal or demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous, unsafe
or unsanitary.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.002  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every building or its premises used in whole or in part as a home or
residence or as an accessory structure thereof, of a single family or person
and every building used in whole or in part as a home or residence of two or
more persons or families, living in separate apartments, shall conform to the
requirements of this code, irrespective of the class to which the building may
otherwise belong, and irrespective of when the building may have been
constructed, altered or repaired.
   (B)   Any alterations to buildings, or changes of use therein which may be
caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall be done in
accordance with applicable sections of the building code of this municipality.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.003  INTERPRETATION; CONFLICT.
   (A)   This code establishes minimum standards for dwelling units and
accessory buildings and does not replace or modify standards otherwise
established for the construction, replacement or repair of buildings, except
such as are in conflict with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Any inconsistency or conflict between the provisions of this code and
any provisions of other existing ordinances shall not repeal the provision or
ordinance; but the provisions of this code shall be cumulative thereto.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.004  RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming house,”
“rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A detached structure subordinate to the main or
principal structure and located on the same lot, the use of which is customary
to the main building.
      BASEMENT.  The portion of a building having its floor level below the
surface of the ground immediately adjoining it.
      BATHROOM.  A room containing bathing and sanitary facilities provided
within each living unit consisting of a water closet, a tub or shower and a
lavatory; a bathroom shall afford complete privacy.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER.  The official designated by the city to enforce
building, zoning or similar laws, and this code, or his or her duly authorized
representatives.
      DETERIORATION.  The condition or appearance of a building or part
thereof, characterized by breaks, holes, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling,
rusting or other evidence of physical decay or neglect, excessive use of or
lack of maintenance.
      DWELLING UNIT.  One or more rooms in a building designed for occupancy by
one family for living purposes and having its own permanently installed cooking
and sanitary facilities.
      EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the city.
      FAMILY.  An individual or married couple and the children thereof and no
more than two other persons related directly to the individual or married
couple by blood or marriage, or a group of not more than three persons,
excluding servants, not related by blood or marriage, living together as a
single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
      FENCE.  An independent structure forming a barrier at grade between lots,
between a lot and a street or an alley or between portions of a lot or lots.  A
BARRIER includes a wall or latticework screen, but excludes a hedge, natural
growth or a barrier less than 18 inches in height which is used to protect
plant growth.
      GARBAGE.  Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE BUILDING.  Any structure or part thereof that shall be used as
a home or place of abode by one or more persons.
      HABITABLE ROOM.  Every room in any building in which persons sleep, eat
or carry on their usual domestic or social vocations or avocations.  It shall
not include private laundries, bathrooms, toilet rooms, pantries, storerooms,
corridors, rooms for mechanical equipment for service in the building or other
similar spaces not used by persons frequently or during extended periods.
      KITCHEN.  A kitchen is a space of not less than 50 square feet, which
contains a sink with counter working space, adequate space for installing
cooking and refrigeration equipment and for the storage of cooking  utensils.
      MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof designed or
altered for occupancy by more than one family, each living independently of the
other.
      OCCUPANT.  Any person, including owner or operator, living and sleeping
in a dwelling unit or having actual possession of the dwelling or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS.  The temperature 150°F above the
lowest recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
      OWNER.  Any person, firm or corporation who, alone, jointly or severally
with others, shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care or control
of, any dwelling or dwelling unit within the city as owner, employee or agent
of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate or person of the title
holder, and the person shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this
chapter to the same extent as the owner.
      PERSON.  A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and
any other group acting as a unit as well as individuals.  It shall also include
an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed
according to law.  Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this
chapter prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or association, the
word shall include the partners or members thereof, and as to corporations,
shall include the officer, agents or members thereof who are responsible for
any violation of the section.
      PLUMBING.  All of the following facilities and equipment:  gas pipes,
gas-burning equipment, water pipes, steam pipes, garbage disposal units, waste
pipes, toilets, sinks, installed dish washers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any
other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas
lines.
      PROVIDED.  Any material furnished, supplies, paid for or under the
control of the owner.
      PUBLIC HALL.  A hall, corridor or passageway for egress from a dwelling
not within the exclusive control of one family.
      REPAIR.  To restore to a sound and acceptable state of operation,
serviceability or appearance. REPAIRS shall be expected to last approximately
as long as would the replacement by new items.
      REPLACE.  To remove an existing item or portion of a system and to
construct or install a new item of similar or improved. quality as the existing
item when new.  REPLACEMENT will ordinarily take place when the item is
incapable of repair.
      ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms from a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH.  Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent or
temporary location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent
or temporary location on the ground.  A sign or other advertising medium,
detached or projecting, and fences and free-standing walls shall be construed
to be a STRUCTURE.
      SUBSTANDARD.  All buildings used for purposes of human habitation which
do not conform to the minimum standards established by this code and by any
other ordinances.
      SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING.  Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
      YARD.  An open space at grade on the same lot as a building or structure
located between the main building and the adjoining lot line and/or street
line.  The measurement of a YARD shall be the minimum horizontal distance
between the lot line and the building or structure.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
SAFETY AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.015  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy as owner-occupant or to let or
hold out to another for occupancy any dwelling unit for the purposes of living
therein which is not safe, clean and fit for human occupancy, and which does
not comply with the particular requirements of the following sections of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.016  BASEMENTS AND CELLARS.
   Every basement and every cellar shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary
condition.  Water shall not be permitted to accumulate or stand on the floor. 
All sewer connections shall be properly trapped. All cellar and slab drains
shall be covered with grating.  Junk, rubbish and waste shall not be permitted
to accumulate to an extent as to create fire hazards or to endanger health or
safety.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.017  FACILITIES, EQUIPMENT AND CHIMNEYS.
   Every supplied facility, fixture, system, piece of equipment or utility and
every chimney and chimney flue shall be installed and maintained in a safe,
sound and sanitary working condition, consistent with the requirement of this
code.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.018  FLOORS, INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS.
   (A)   Every floor, interior wall and ceiling shall be adequately protected
against the passage and harborage of vermin and rodents and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.  Every floor shall be free of holes and
cracks.  Every floor shall be free of loose, warped, protruding or rotting
floor boards.  Every interior wall and ceiling shall be free of holes and large
cracks and shall be maintained in a tight weatherproof condition.  Every
interior wall and ceiling shall be free of loose plaster or other structural
material.
   (B)   Plaster, paint and all other surface materials shall be of a character
as to be easily cleanable, and shall be reasonably smooth, clean and tight. 
Every toilet room and bathroom floor surface shall be substantially impervious
to water and be capable of being maintained easily in a clean and sanitary
condition.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.019  FOUNDATIONS, EXTERIOR WALLS AND ROOFS.
   (A)   The foundation, exterior walls and exterior roof shall be
substantially watertight and protected against rodents and shall be kept in
sound condition and repair.  The foundation elements shall adequately support
the building at all points.  Every exterior wall shall be free of deterioration
holes, breaks, loose or rotting board or timbers and any other condition which
might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the
exterior spaces of the dwelling.  The roof shall be tight and have no defects
which admit rain and roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain water from
causing dampness in the walls.
   (B)   All cornices, rustications, quoins, moldings, belt courses, lintels,
sill, oriel windows, pediments and similar projections shall be kept in good
repair and free from cracks and defects which make them hazardous and
dangerous.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.020  GRADING AND DRAINAGE OF LOTS.
   Every yard, court, vent passageway, driveway and other portion of the lot on
which the dwelling stands shall be graded and drained so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water on any surface.  Driveways shall be maintained
in good repair and free of safety hazards.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.021  INFESTATION.
   (A)   Each dwelling and all exterior appurtenances on the premises shall be
adequately protected against rats, mice, termites and other vermin
infestation.  Building defects which permit the entrance of rats, mice,
termites and other vermin shall be corrected immediately by the owner.
   (B)   Tenants shall be responsible for the elimination of rodents and vermin
from that part of the premises under their exclusive control, except when more
than one unit is infested at the same time and in this instance the owner shall
be responsible for elimination of the infestation.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.022  WINDOWS, DOORS AND HATCHWAYS.
   (A)   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be
substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and repair.  Every
window shall be fully supplied with window panes which are without cracks or
holes.  Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit reasonably tight
within its frame.  Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be capable of
being easily opened and shall be held in position by window hardware.
   (B)   Every exterior floor, door hinge and door latch shall be in good
condition.  Every exterior door, when closed shall fit reasonably well within
its frame.  Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
relation to the adjacent wall construction as completely to exclude rain, and
substantially to exclude wind from entering the dwelling.  Every basement
hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as to prevent the entrance of
rodents, rain and surface drainage water into the building.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.023  SCREENS.
   Screens shall be supplied to the following extent:
   (A)   Every basement or cellar window which is openable shall be supplied
with a framed heavy wire screen or hardware cloth of not less than four mesh
per inch which fits tightly and is securely fastened to the frame, or with any
other material affording equivalent protection against the entry of rodents; or
   (B)   From April 15 to November 15 of each year, every door opening directly
from any family unit to the outdoors, and every window or other outside opening
used for ventilation purposes, shall be supplied with a screen of not less than
16 mesh per inch and every screen door shall have a self-closing device in good
working condition.  However, no screen shall be required for a family unit on a
floor above the fourth floor, except when unusual circumstances of insect
prevalence exist.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.024  BROKEN GLASS; BOARDING.
   (A)   Every window, glazed exterior door, exterior transom or exterior
sidelight shall be provided with properly installed glass or other approved
glazing material.
   (B)   In the event of breakage, the owner shall cause the immediate removal
of broken glass from the premises and shall temporarily board-up the affected
openings with suitable material to provide protection from the elements and to
prevent entry of insects, birds or animals and to provide security to occupants
or contents of the building.
   (C)   (1)   Adequate ventilation and natural lighting shall be provided for
all occupied dwelling units. Whenever any exterior for openings are found
boarded-up, it shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to notify the
owner or agent of this requirement giving him or her a period of not more than
ten working days in which to properly replace the broken glass or cause the
dwelling unit to be vacated.
      (2)   This notice shall be given in the manner required by §
152.078 and it shall be unlawful for any owner or agent to fail to comply with
the order of the Building Commissioner contained in the notice.
   (D)   Since the presence of boarded-up buildings, particularly those where
the boarding is unpainted or applied in an insecure, careless or unpresentable
fashion invites vandalism, and creates a blighting influence which adversely
affects the general welfare of the people of the city, it is hereby required
that all boarding-up of exterior openings be accomplished in a neat workperson
like manner with not less than  inch thick weather-resistant plywood cut to fit
within openings, fastened in place as securely as possible, and suitably coated
with an appropriate neutral color blending with or harmonizing with the
exterior colors of the building as inconspicuously as possible.  It shall be
the duty of the Building Commissioner to notify the owner or agent of any
boarded-up dwelling unit not complying with the above requirements, of the
necessity of compliance giving him or her a period of not more than ten working
days in which to replace the broken glass, or repair, replace or paint the
boarding.
   (E)   This notice shall be given in the manner required by §
152.078 and it shall be unlawful for any owner or agent to fail to comply with
the order of the Building Commissioner contained in the notice.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.025  STAIRWAYS AND PORCHES.
   (A)   Every stairway, inside or outside of the dwelling, and every porch,
shall be kept in safe condition and sound repair.  Every flight of stairs and
every porch floor shall be free of deterioration. Every stairwell and every
flight of stairs which is more than four risers high shall have rails not less
than 2 feet high, measured vertically from the nose of the tread to the top of
the rail; and every porch which is more than four risers high shall have rails
not less than 2 feet above the floor of the porch.  Every rail and balustrade
shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good condition.
   (B)   No flight of stairs shall have settled more than one inch out of its
intended position or have pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures. 
No flight of stairs shall have rotting, loose or deteriorating supports.  The
treads and risers of every flight of stairs shall be uniform in width and
height.  Every stair tread shall be strong enough to bear a concentrated load
of at least 400 pounds without danger of breaking.  Every porch-shall have a
sound floor.  No porch shall have rotting, loose or deteriorating supports.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.026  CEILING HEIGHTS AND SLEEPING ROOMS.
   Yards shall be provided with adequate lawn, ground cover of vegetation,
hedges or bushes, equal to at least 10% of the total lot area.  All areas which
are not covered by vegetation shall be treated to prevent dust or the blowing
or scattering of dust particles into the air.  All trees, bushes or vegetation
which overhang a public entrance shall be properly trimmed to avoid obstruction
of the view and movements of vehicles and pedestrians.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
SPACE AND OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.035  CEILING HEIGHTS AND SLEEPING ROOMS.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling unit for
the purpose of living therein which does not comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall contain the habitable rooms and closets
designated below with the minimum floor areas and least dimensions as scheduled
below:
              Minimum Area in Square Feet
              One to Two Three to Five Six or more Least Dimensions
Name of Space Occupants  Occupants     Occupants   (Applied to 90% of
                                                   Required Floor Area)
                Minimum Area in Square Feet
                One to Two Three to Five Six or more Least Dimensions
Name of Space   Occupants  Occupants     Occupants   (Applied to 90% of
                                                     Required Floor Area)
Living room     N.R.       120           150         Ten feet, zero
                                                     inches
Dining room     N.R.       80            100         Seven feet, eight
                                                     inches
                                                     Three feet, zero
Kitchen         50         50            60          inches, clear
                                                     passage
Bedrooms        See §                               Seven feet, zero
                152.036(B) below for requirements    inches
Closets (total) 10*        20*           30*
NOTE TO TABLE:
* - Each bedroom must have six square feet of closet space opening into
the bedroom.
 
   (B)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall have a
minimum floor area of 70 square feet; every room occupied for sleeping purposes
by two occupants shall have a minimum floor area of 100 square feet, and every
room occupied for sleeping purposes by three occupants shall have a minimum
floor area of 150 square feet.
   (C)   Every room used as a bedroom shall have access to at least one water
closet located on the same floor as the bedroom, except that this requirement
shall not apply to the only bedroom on a floor.
   (D)   Every room used as a bedroom shall have access to at least one water
closet without passing through another room used as a bedroom.
   (E)   Habitable rooms shall have a clear ceiling height of not less than
seven feet and four inches, except that in attics or top-half stories the
ceiling height shall be not less than seven feet over not less than one-third
of the area when used for sleeping, study or similar activity.  In calculating
the floor area of the rooms only those portions of the floor area of the room
having a clear ceiling height of five feet or more may be included.
   (F)   Combined living room/dining room spaces will be construed as meeting
the requirements of this section if the total area is equal to that required
for separate rooms and if the space is so located that it may function as a
combination living room/dining room.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.036  BASEMENT ROOMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit any room in any
basement to be used to satisfy the habitable room requirements of
§ 152.035 unless the basement meets all the applicable requirements of this
subchapter, particularly with regard to ceiling height, window area and toilet
facilities, and meets the following additional requirements.
   (A)   The lowest point of the ceiling shall be at least three feet and six
inches above the surface of the ground immediately adjoining the room.
   (B)   The required minimum window area is entirely above ground level.
   (C)   The floors and walls shall be constructed in a manner to prevent the
entry of moisture and so insulated so as to prevent the condensation of
moisture within the room.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
LIGHT AND VENTILATION
§ 152.045  ILLUMINATION.
   A minimum of five foot-candles of daylight or artificial illumination shall
be required at all times in all public halls.  All habitable rooms, passageways
and stairways shall be provided with electric fixtures so that they can be
adequately lighted at night.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.046  NATURAL LIGHTING.
   All habitable rooms, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be
provided with a means of transmitting natural light from outside complying with
the following requirements.
   (A)   The required clear glass area shall not be less than one-tenth of the
floor area of the room and not less than ten square feet.  The effective area
shall be computed at not more than 80% of the actual area when a required
natural light area:
      (1)   Faces a wall or other obstruction at a distance of less than ten
feet; or
      (2)   Is located below a roof or other obstruction projecting more than
four feet from the face of the window or other natural light area from the
plane from the head to the outside of the projection forms and angle with the
horizontal of less than 45 degrees.
   (B)    Whenever a habitable room has natural light area opening from the
room to an enclosed porch, the area shall not be counted as a required light
area unless the enclosed porch has a natural light area of not less than three
times the required light area opening from the room to the porch.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.047  VENTILATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have a ventilation system adequate for the
purpose for which the room is used.  Natural ventilation shall be deemed to be
adequate for a habitable room when the total area openable to the outside air
(by means of windows, louvers, monitors or other direct openings excluding
doors) is 5% of the floor area of the habitable room, except that when:
      (1)   Any portion of the room is more than 16 feet from a required
opening, the aggregate clear area of openings shall be not less than 6%.
      (2)   A room has openable areas on two or more sides thereof, the total
openable area shall be at least 4% of the total floor area of the room.
      (3)   The openable area faces a wall or other obstruction at a distance
of less than ten feet, the effective area shall be computed at not more than
80% of the actual openable area.
      (4)   The openable area opens onto an enclosed porch, the enclosed porch
shall have an openable area of at least three times the total required area of
the openings onto the porch.
   (B)   A kitchen with a floor area of less than 70 square feet may be without
either mechanical or natural ventilation if there is an opening of not less
than 32 square feet between the kitchen and another room in the same family
unit and if the room into which the kitchen opens has the ventilation
requirements of the preceding paragraphs.
   (C)   (1)   Every toilet room and bathroom shall have adequate ventilation
which may be either an openable window with an openable area of 5% of the floor
area, mechanical ventilation in compliance with the foregoing requirements of
this section, or a gravity vent flue constructed with incombustible material
leading to the roof of the building or a combination of any of these.
      (2)   The gravity vent shall be computed at an aggregate clear area of
not less than 5% of the floor area of the room with a minimum area of at least
120 square inches.
      (3)   Gravity vents shall be provided with a weather cap, directional
vane or rotary type ventilation on the roof.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
BASIC REQUIREMENT AND FACILITIES
§ 152.060  ELECTRICAL SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to occupy or permit another to occupy any dwelling unit
for the purpose of living therein, which is not adequately and safely provided
with an electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.061  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following shall be considered as absolute minimum requirements.
   (B)   Conditions such as size of the dwelling unit and usage of appliances
and equipment within the unit shall be used as the basis for requiring
additional electrical works.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit in a single family or two-family building shall
be served by a main service not smaller than 100 ampere, three-wire.
      (2)   Every habitable room shall contain not less than two wall or
approved floor convenience outlets.
      (3)   Every laundry area shall contain at least one grounded type
convenience outlet.
      (4)   Every bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public hall shall
contain not less than one ceiling or wall lighting fixture.
      (5)   Every outlet and fixture shall be properly installed, shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition and shall be connected to the
source of electric power in a safe manner.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.062  HAZARD.
   (A)   Wherever it is found, in the judgment of the Building Commissioner,
that the electrical system in the building constitutes a hazard to the
occupants or the building by reason of inadequate service, improper fusing,
improper or inadequate grounding of the system, insufficient outlets, improper
wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the
defects shall be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Commissioner shall base his or her findings of
hazard on accepted engineering practice standards as listed in Appendix B of
the latest edition of the BOCA Basic Building Code.
      (2)   In addition to the hazards established by the Building
Commissioner, the following installations are prohibited and their presence
shall be deemed a hazard:
         (a)   Flush or semi-flush mounted floor convenience outlets unless
provided with an approved waterproof cover;
         (b)   Extension cords for other than short term, temporary use;
         (c)   Conductor supported pendant switches or conductor supported
pendant light fixtures;
         (d)   Loose or hanging wires;
         (e)   Frayed or bare wires; and
         (f)   Inadequately grounded, grounded type convenience outlet.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.063  REFUSE, GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate refuse, garbage or rubbish storage
facilities.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.064  HEATING.
   (A)   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are
capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments within its wall to a temperature of a least 70°F when
the outside temperature is 0°F.
      (2)   Gas appliances designed primarily for cooking or water heating
purposes shall not be considered as heating facilities within the meaning of
this section.  Portable heating equipment employing flame and the use of liquid
fuels does not meet the requirements of this section and is prohibited.
      (3)   The owner may require that the occupant shall provide the required
heating facilities at the occupant’s expense, but an agreement or requirement
does not relieve the owner from responsibility for the presence of the heating
equipment for the unit.
   (B)   Every owner, agent and manager of any apartment house, hotel, rooming
house, flat or other building whatsoever who leases, rents or lets one or more
dwelling units on terms, either express or implied, to furnish heat to the
tenants or occupants thereof, shall, and is hereby directed to, maintain during
the months of October, November, December, January, February, March, April and
the first 15 days of May of each year sufficient heat in the rooms so occupied
as living quarters to produce a temperature of not less than 70°F during the
hours between 6:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of each day, and shall maintain a
temperature of not less than 60°F during the other hours of the day, except
that when the outside temperature drops below 0°F and the heating plant is
operating at its full capacity, a minimum inside temperature of 60°F shall be
maintained at all times, and it shall be the duty of every janitor, firefighter
or other employee who shall assume or engage in employment to operate the
furnace or heating plant of any such apartment house, hotel, rooming house,
flat or other building aforesaid to maintain the heat as aforesaid and as in
this subchapter defined and set out.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.065  WATER HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall have supplied water heating facilities which
are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, are
properly connected with the hot water lines required under the provisions of
this code and are capable of heating water to a temperature as to permit an
adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory
basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than 120°F.  The supplied
water-heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the requirements of this
section when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating facilities required under
the provisions of sections of this subchapter are not in operation.
   (B)   Every owner, agent and manager of any apartment house, hotel, rooming
house, flat or other building whatsoever who leases, rents or lets one or more
dwelling units on terms, either expressed or implied, to furnish hot water to
the tenants or occupants thereof, shall, and is hereby directed to, provide an
adequate amount of water at all times at every required kitchen sink, lavatory
basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than 120°F.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.075  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Building Commissioner to
enforce the provisions of the Housing Code as herein provided.
   (A)   Coordination of enforcement.  Inspection of premises and the issuing
of orders in connection therewith under the provisions of this code shall be
the exclusive responsibility of the Building Commissioner.  Wherever, in the
opinion of the Building Commissioner it is necessary or desirable to have
inspections of any condition by any other department he or she shall arrange
for this to be done in a manner that the owners or occupants of buildings shall
not be subjected to visits by numerous inspectors nor to multiple or
conflicting orders.  No order for correction of any violation under this code
shall be issued without the approval of the Building Commissioner, and it shall
be the responsibility of that official before issuing any order to determine
that it has the concurrence of any other department or official of the
government concerned with any matter involved on the case in question.
   (B)   Administrative liability.  Except as may otherwise be provided by
statute or ordinance, no officer, agent or employee of the municipality charged
with the enforcement of the Housing Code shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under this code.  No person who institutes or assists in the prosecution of a
criminal proceeding under this code shall be liable to damages hereunder unless
he or she acted with actual malice and without reasonable grounds for believing
that the person accused or prosecuted was guilty of an unlawful act or
omission.  Any suit brought against any officer, agent, or employee of the
municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this code, shall be defended by the legal
representative of the municipality until the final determination of the
proceedings therein.
   (C)   Inspections.  The Building Commissioner shall make or cause to be made
inspections to determine the conditions of dwellings, multi-family dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and premises in order to
safeguard the safety, morals and welfare of the public under the provisions of
this code.  The Building Commissioner is authorized to enter any dwelling,
dwelling unit, multi- family dwelling, rooming house or premises at any reason
able time for the purpose of performing his or her duties under this code.  The
owner, operator or occupant of every dwelling, multi-family dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming unit or the person in charge thereof shall give the Building
Commissioner free access thereto and to all parts thereof and to the premises
on which it is located at all reasonable times for the purpose of the
inspection, examination and survey.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.076  PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
hereafter occupy or for any owner or agent thereof to permit the occupation of
any building, or addition thereto, or part thereof, for any purpose until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.  A
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until an inspection has been
conducted by the Building Commissioner of the dwelling unit for which the
certificate of occupancy has been requested.
      (2)   The certificate of occupancy so issued shall state that the
occupancy complies with all the provisions of this chapter.  This section shall
not apply to any occupancy in existence at the time of the adoption of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation that
provides a utility service, such as gas, water, electricity and the like, to
provide its service to any building, or addition thereto, or part thereof, that
is to be used as a dwelling unit until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Commissioner and presented to the utility service.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any occupancy in existence at the
time of adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation that provides a utility service, such
as gas, water, electricity and the like may provide its services to any
building or addition thereto, or part thereof, that is to be used as a dwelling
unit for the purposes of repairing, enlarging, remodeling, rebuilding, building
or any other type of work which is required to make the structure acceptable
under this chapter, if a temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued by
the Building Commissioner and presented to the utility service, the certificate
when issued shall state the building, or addition thereto, or part thereof for
which it is issued, the type of utility services that may be provided, the
period of time that it is valid for, and the reason for the permit.
   (D)   A temporary certificate of occupancy shall not be issued until an
inspection has been conducted by the Building Commissioner of the dwelling unit
for which the temporary certificate of occupancy has been requested.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.077  FEES.
   (A)   Occupancy permit.
      (1)   The fee for an occupancy permit shall be $2 for each dwelling unit
occupied.
      (2)   The fee for a temporary occupancy permit shall be $2 for each
dwelling unit.
   (B)   Inspection.  The fee for inspection by the Building Commissioner of
each dwelling unit upon which an occupant permit or temporary occupancy permit
has been requested shall be $25.  For a temporary occupancy permit, the fee
shall be $15.  There shall be an additional $15 inspection fee when the holder
of a valid temporary occupancy permit requests an occupancy permit.
   (C)   Application.  It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make
any false statement in his or her application for an occupancy permit or
temporary occupancy permit as to the names, ages, relationships or numbers of
occupants who will occupy the premises or the reasons for which the respective
permits are requested.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.078  EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   When any dwelling unit has become so damaged by fire, wind or other
causes, or has become so unsafe, unhealthful or unsanitary, that in the opinion
of the Building Commissioner life or health is immediately endangered by the
occupation of the dwelling unit, the Building Commissioner is hereby authorized
and empowered to revoke without notice any occupancy permits for the dwelling
units and to order and require the occupants to vacate the same forthwith and
to order the owner or agent to proceed immediately with the corrective work and
repairs required to make the dwelling unit temporarily safe and fit for human
habitation, whether or not a notice of violation has been given as described in
this chapter, and whether or not legal procedures described by city ordinances
have been instituted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any
emergency order of the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.079  NONCOMPLIANCE; NOTICE.
   Whenever the Building Commissioner determines there are reasonable grounds
to believe there has been a violation of any provision of this code, he or she
will give notice of the alleged violation to the person or persons responsible
therefor which shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Contain a statement of the reason why it is being issued;
   (C)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
   (D)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the occupant, as the
case may require.  The notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon the
owner or agent, or on any occupant, if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Served upon him or her personally;
      (2)   Sent by registered mail to his or her last known address; and
      (3)   Posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by
notice.
   (E)   Contain an outline of remedial action which if taken will effect
compliance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.080  PLACARDS ON BUILDINGS.
   The designation of dwelling units are unfit for human habitation and the
procedure for the declaration and placarding of the unfit dwellings or dwelling
units shall be carried out in compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be declared unfit for human habitation and shall be so
designated and placarded by the Building Commissioner when the person
responsible has failed to correct the condition set forth in a notice issued in
accordance with §
152.079;
   (B)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe or
vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of the
occupants or of the public;
   (C)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public; or
   (D)   One which because of its general condition or location is unsanitary,
or otherwise dangerous, to the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.081  VACATIONS OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation
and so designated and placarded by the Building Commissioner shall be vacated
within a reasonable time as ordered by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from, and the placard removed by, the Building
Commissioner.  The Building Commissioner shall remove the placard whenever the
defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based
have been eliminated.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.082  REMOVAL OF PLACARDS.
   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or dwelling
unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and placarded as
such, except as provided in §
152.081.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.083  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning and
placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board of
Appeals under the procedure set forth in this code.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.084  NONCOMPLIANCE; REMEDY OF DEFECTS.
   (A)   The owner of any building shall have 30 days from the issuance of the
notice provided for in §
152.079 in which to remedy the condition therein specified, except when
emergency conditions shall require immediate action as provided in §
152.079.  The Building Commissioner may, at his or her discretion, extend the
time for compliance with any notice.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any order
of the Building Commissioner contained in the notice described in §
152.079.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.085  CONDEMNED BUILDINGS.
   If any building covered by this code shall be found to be unfit for human
habitation and the cost of repair or alteration shall be deemed prohibitive by
the Building Commissioner, then he or she shall condemn the building and
proceed with its removal as in all other cases of condemned buildings.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.086  SECURING VACATED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The owner of every building or dwelling unit or rooming unit which is
declared “unfit for human habitation” for continued occupancy shall make the
dwelling, building or rooming unit safe and secure under the terms so that it
shall not be dangerous to human life and shall not constitute a fire hazard or
public nuisance.
   (B)   Any vacant dwelling open at doors or windows, if unguarded, shall be
deemed to be dangerous to human life as a fire hazard and a public nuisance
within the meaning of this provision.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.087  TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OF NONCOMPLYING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling unit who has
received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served
to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish to the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance or notice of violation,
issued by the Building Commissioner and shall furnish to the Building
Commissioner a signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of the compliance order or
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the corrections or repairs required by the compliance order or
notice of violation.
   (B)   (1)   For purposes of this chapter, the occupant, renter or lessee
shall be considered and deemed separate and independent from the owner, lessor
or landlord, unless they be one and the same for the dwelling unit on the day
of the violation and shall each separately and independently be subject upon
conviction to a fine.
      (2)   Each day of the continued violation shall constitute a separate
additional violation.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall limit any other right or remedy of the city or
other person in interest, including the right to obtain an injunction of any
violation from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986) 
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 152.088  NOTICE TO CITY OF SUCCESSOR OF EXISTING UTILITY SERVICE.
   (A)   For any month when there is a change of user of residential (rate 001)
or non-residential (rate 043) electric service within the city, Illinois Power
Company shall notify the Building Department of the city in writing within
seven working days after the end of the month of the changes, indicating the
address and apartment or unit number in whose name the service is connected or
billed.
   (B)   For any month when there is a change of user of residential (rate 001)
or non-residential (rate 043) electric service within the city, Ameren UE
Company shall notify the Building Department of the city in writing within
seven working days after the end of the month of the changes, indicating the
address and apartment or unit number in whose name the service is connected or
billed.
(Ord. 1577, passed 4-9-2002; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 4-9-2002)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.100  JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Appeals, under the Building Code, shall have jurisdiction under
this chapter to hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by any aggrieved
person that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination
made by the Building Commissioner or any other person charged with the
enforcement of this code.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.101  AUTHORITY TO MAKE REPAIRS.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with the notice issued by the Building
Commissioner under this code, then and in such event the Building Commissioner
shall certify the failure to the Board of Appeals, the Board is authorized and
may direct the Building Commissioner to take the action as may be necessary to
repair, replace, rebuild or otherwise remedy the conditions specified in the
notice.  If the Board of Appeals proceeds to order the condition remedied, then
the cost thereof shall be at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   The costs shall be submitted to the owner or owners of the property;
if the costs are not paid within 60 days after rendered, then the Board of
Appeals shall certify the amount to the City Attorney for appropriate action.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.102  PROCEDURE FOR FILING APPEALS.
   (A)   Any appeal herein shall be taken within 30 days after the decision is
rendered by filing with the Building Commissioner a notice of appeal, specify
the grounds therefor, and by depositing with the Building Commissioner the sum
of $100 as an appeal fee.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall forthwith submit to the Board a copy
of this notice of appeal together with all the papers constituting the record
upon which the action appealed from is taken.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.103  APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal, pursuant to division §
152.102, shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from
unless the Building Commissioner or Health Commissioner shall certify to the
Board of Appeals, subsequent to the filing of any notice of appeal, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent
peril to life or property.  In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise that by the order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner and the Health
Commissioner to furnish the Board of Appeals, upon request, with copies of
reports of any or all inspections made by officers in the matter on appeal and
to furnish other information as may be available to them and request by the
Appeal Board.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a time and place for the hearing of
appeals.  The hearing shall be within a reasonable time after the filing of the
notice of appeal.  Notice of the time and place of hearing shall be sent by
mail to the appellant or to his or her attorney of record and the hearing shall
not be less than ten days after the mailing of the notice.
   (D)   In exercising the powers enumerated in this code, the Board of Appeals
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from, and may make the order, requirement,
decision or determination as ought to be made.  The Board of Appeals shall act
by majority vote and a quorum shall consist of at least five members.  The
action of the Board shall not become effective until after the resolution of
the Board setting forth the reason for its decision and the vote of each member
participation therein has been included in the minutes.  The resolutions,
immediately following the Board's final decision, shall be filed in the office
of the Board and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.104  POWERS.
   The powers granted by this code to the Board of Appeals shall be in addition
to those conferred upon it by the city’s Building Code.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.105  REVIEW OF BOARD DECISIONS.
   Any decision of the Board under this chapter shall be subject to review by
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
§ 152.106  APPEAL FEE DISPOSITION.
   If a decision appealed from is affirmed, the appeal fee previously deposited
by appellant shall be forfeited and the money shall be paid into the City
Treasury.  If the decision appealed from shall be reversed or modified, then
the appeal fee shall be refunded to appellant.
(Ord. 885, passed 1-2-1974; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 7-15-1986)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Base flood elevation
   
153.04   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.05   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Flood Hazard Prevention
   
153.15   Preventing increased flood heights and damages
   
153.16   Protecting buildings
   
153.17   Subdivision and other development requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.30   Building Inspector; duties
   
153.31   Development permit
   
153.32   Variances
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers and zoning powers
granted to the city by the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-
1, 11-13-1, 11-30-2, 11-30-8 and 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas; and
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
   BUILDING.  A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes and prefabricated buildings. The
term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on
a site for more than 180 days.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building, or any
addition to a building, exceeding seven square feet in floor area;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
fro a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  Synonymous terms meaning
those lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are subject to inundation
by the base flood. The floodplains of the city are generally identified as such
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated July 16, 1980, and as subsequently amended. The
floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Madison and St. Clair Counties
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be
annexed into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared for Madison and St. Clair Counties by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated April 15, 1982 and August 5, 1985, respectively.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE.  The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY.  That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for each of the floodplains of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
   IDNR/OWR.  Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP.  National Flood Insurance Program.
   SFHA.  National Flood Insurance Program.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either, before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.  The term does not, however, include either any improvement of a
structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety
code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions
or any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four-hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use and not as a permanent dwelling.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 153.03  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood elevation data are listed below. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party may finance the detailed
engineering study needed to replace the existing data with better data and
submit it to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for approval.
   (B)   Base flood elevation data are listed below:
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Mississippi
River shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of the city prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and dated January 1980, and as subsequently amended.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an “AH
Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the city.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an “A Zone” on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine
base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Madison and St. Clair Counties that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the
city, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles of the Flood
Insurance Study of Madison and St. Clair Counties prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated January 31, 1975, and as subsequently
amended.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 153.04  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997)
§ 153.05  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City
Council to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original ordinance, (Ordinance No.
935) and captioned “An Ordinance Adopting Regulations For The Construction,
Substantial Improvement, Subdivision of Land, Placement of Mobile Homes Or
Other Development In Relation To Flood Hazard Areas”, adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter’s
and other ordinance’s easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997)
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 153.15  PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND DAMAGES.
   Within the floodway identified on the flood boundary and floodway map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below of this section, no
development shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and
anticipated development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities
or threat to public health and safety. The following specific development
activities shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11; and
      (10)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely in a
flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in (A) may be permitted only
if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997) 
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.16  PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
153.15, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be protected from
flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building;
      (3)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage); and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180 days.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary, storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated; or
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer to provide adequate flow to equalize hydrostatic pressure
or provide a minimum of one permanent opening on each wall, no more than one
foot above grade. The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris;
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not occupied as habitable space or
used for the storage of materials.
   (C)   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on site for
more than 180 days shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement by being tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for
the Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act (ILCS Ch. 210, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.)
issued pursuant to 77 IL Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
impact from debris and ice; and
      (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
   (E)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997) 
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.17  SUBDIVISION AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent
that they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
153.15 and
153.16 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when available; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a Registered Professional Engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2).
   (C)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
153.15 and
153.16, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building
constructed according to the requirements of §
153.16 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
   (D)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997) 
Penalty, see § 153.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.30  BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Building Inspector shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
153.31;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
153.15;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
153.16 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
153.17;
      (5)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
153.32 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (6)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
153.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (7)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (8)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (9)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (10)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
and
      (11)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997)
§ 153.31  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Building Inspector. The Building
Inspector shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of
§ 153.16 of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Building
Inspector shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to have been
higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site’s first flood
insurance rate map identification is not in the floodplain and therefore not
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification  that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate
map identification.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997) 
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.32  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall, as provided in the
city’s zoning code, review the applicant’s request for a variance and shall
submit its recommendation to the City Council. The City Council may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relies operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicants circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other required local, state and federal permits have been
obtained.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of
§ 153.16 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 for
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
153.16 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a site or building included on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted
using criteria more permissive than the requirements of divisions (B)(1)
through (5) above.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Building
Inspector may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The Building Inspector shall notify the owner in writing of
such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the Court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter; and
      (2)   In addition, the city may prosecute any owner who violates this
chapter and upon conviction thereof the owner shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $750; and
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 1352, passed 2-11-1997)
CHAPTER 154:  MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
154.01   Policy
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Governing regulations
   
154.04   Lot; locations
   
154.05   Electricity and plumbing services
   
154.06   Compliance with minimum housing standards
   
154.07   Transformation of mobile homes
   
154.08   Accessory structures, alterations, and additions
   
154.09   Alterations
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01  POLICY.
   It is the declared policy of the Mayor and City Council that mobile homes,
when constructed, installed and used as places of residence within the city,
shall conform as much as possible and comply with those ordinances of the city
and other applicable laws of the state as those applicable to the
conventionally constructed dwelling houses governed by the usual building codes
and minimum housing standards.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE.  The Safety Code promulgated by the American National Standards
Institute and identified as ANSI A119.1, including all revisions thereof in
effect at the time of the effective date of this chapter. A copy of the Safety
Code, including the revisions thereof, is on file with the City Clerk.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A moveable or portable unit, designed and constructed to be towed
on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels), and designed to be
connected to utilities for year round occupancy.
      (2)   The term shall include:
         (a)   Units containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed land that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing.
      (3)   The term shall include units designed to be used for residential,
commercial, educational or industrial purposes, excluding, however recreational
vehicles, as defined in herein.
   PERSON.  A person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified as TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer of
the trailer and when factory equipped for the road, having a body width not
exceeding eight feet and a body length not exceeding 32 feet.
   SEAL.  A device or insignia issued by the Building Inspector to be displayed
on the exterior of the mobile home to evidenced compliance with the Safety
Code.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.03  GOVERNING REGULATIONS.
   Mobile home parks shall be governed by the mobile home park regulations, as
set out in state statutes and as administered by the Department of Health.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.04  LOT; LOCATIONS.
   A permit shall be secured through the city’s Building Inspector, with
Council approval, for mobile home construction and installation the same as for
a conventional type residence building.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.05  ELECTRICITY AND PLUMBING SERVICES.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be located on a lot of no smaller than 50 feet
in width and at least 110 feet in length, and shall be located on the lot at
least five feet from the side lot line and shall maintain a set back line from
the front of the lot to:
      (1)   Conform with the improvements located on adjoining lots and in the
same block; or
      (2)   Be at least 25 feet from the front line, whichever is the greatest.
   (B)   All electrical distribution lines to a mobile home, including the
outside electrical service, shall either be buried at least 18 inches below the
ground surface, or shall be suspended above ground level  at a height of no
less than ten feet and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
applicable electric code and regulations, as contained in the city’s building
code, and each mobile home shall be supplied with 220 volt AC service of no
less than 100 amperes.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.06  COMPLIANCE WITH MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS.
   (A)   All plumbing services and sanitary plumbing shall comply with the
normal and usual plumbing service, as prescribed by the plumbing code of the
state and shall be in strict conformity therewith in all respects.
   (B)   All mobile homes shall meet and comply with the minimum housing
standards as set forth in the city’s regulations, as set in
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, with regard to minimum space requirement,
maintenance, maintenance of adjacent premises, occupancy, drainage,
foundations, sanitation and all other regulations therein set forth.
   (C)   All mobile homes shall meet and comply with the minimum standards for
mobile homes as set forth in the code promulgated by the American National
Standards Institute and identified as ANSI A119.1, dated 1972, which shall be
and it is hereby adopted and declared to be the official standard for mobile
homes of the city.
   (D)   All mobile homes shall meet the following requirements and standards:
      (1)   Mobile home pad.
         (a)   The mobile home pad shall be improved to provide adequate
support for the placement and tie-down of the mobile home.  The pad shall not
heave, shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile home due to
frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration, wind or other forces acting on
the structure.
         (b)   All mobile homes shall be placed on a mobile home pad
constructed of Portland cement concrete not less than six inches in thickness. 
In addition, all mobile home pads shall be at least ten feet wide by 40 feet in
length, or mobile homes may be placed on concrete piers on a solid concrete if
footing and shall be of a size and kind approved by the Building Inspector and
shall be exactly as approved.  Expandable units shall be provided with approved
piers or their equivalent at each corner of the unit.
      (2)   Jacks and stabilizers.  Jacks and/or stabilizers shall be placed
under the frame of the mobile home to prevent movement on the springs while the
mobile home is parked and occupied and shall be located on approved concrete
footing.
      (3)   Tie-down anchorage requirements.
         (a)   All mobile homes shall meet the tie-down requirements of the
following table.
 
10- and 12-foot Wide Mobile Home                    12- and 14-foot Wide Mobile
                                                    Homes
30 to 50 Feet Long        50 to 60 Feet Long        60 to 70 Feet Long
No. of Frame No. of Over- No. of Frame No. of Over- No. of Frame No. Of Over-
Ties (Pairs) the-Top Ties Ties (Pairs) the-Top Ties Ties (Pairs) the-Top Ties
4            3            5            3            5            3
 
         (b)   Tie-down components used, including anchor systems, must be able
to withstand at least 4,800 pounds without failure.  The holding power of
ground anchors can be determined by conducting pullout tests or by consulting
with an anchor dealer.  He or she should be able to provide data on anchor
holding power for various kinds of soils.
   (E)   In the event that a mobile home is to be installed and constructed at
a location which is not within a reasonable distance from public sewage lines
or facilities then the mobile home shall be equipped with and connected to a
septic tank disposal system which shall comply with the recommendations of the
State Department of Public Health for septic tanks for sewage systems for
single family homes in rural and suburban areas.
   (F)   When an approved public water supply is adjacent to or within an
economically feasible distance of a mobile home site, that water supply shall
be used exclusively; and otherwise each mobile home shall be equipped with a
water storage tank of at least 200 gallons, utilizing a pressurized
distribution system.
   (G)   When a mobile home is constructed and mounted on a foundation the
foundation shall be of a design and size to match the mobile home.  No
variations shall be allowed.  Skirting of a mobile home will be permitted with
proper tie-downs and shall be of fire resistant materials equipped with
inspection doors, and constructed in such a manner so that it will not provide
a harborage for rodents, nor create a fire hazard.
   (H)   (1)   A mobile home shall not be occupied unless it is in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and a certificate of occupance
has been issued by the Building Inspector.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to rent, sell, or offer for sale in
this city and mobile home manufactured after January 1, 1974, unless the mobile
home complies with the Safety Code and any revision thereof that may be adopted
hereafter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any mobile home who has
received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served
to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish to the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee, or lessee a true copy of any compliance or notice of violation,
issued by the Building Commissioner and shall furnish to the Building
Commissioner a signed and notarized statement from the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or
notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition
for making the corrections or repairs required by such compliance order or
notice of violation.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.07  TRANSFORMATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning and/or operating a mobile home
without first obtaining a permit to do so, to remove or cause to have removed
the wheels or any other transportation device from any mobile home or otherwise
permanently fix it to the ground in a manner that would prevent the ready
removal of the mobile home.  Any alteration to any mobile home as herein set
forth shall be construed as an attempt to make the mobile home immobile and
removing it from the requirements of this code.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.08  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, ALTERATIONS, AND ADDITIONS.
   No permanent additions shall be built onto or become part of any mobile
home.  Temporary structures shall be permitted in accordance with the following
provisions and requirements:
   (A)   Accessory structures shall be designed in a manner that will enhance
the appearance of the mobile home development.
   (B)   Cabanas, patios or porches of which at least one side must be open
except for the screening for insects.
   (C)   Electrical circuits supplying the accessory structure shall be
independent of the circuit supplying the mobile home.
   (D)   Skirting of a mobile home shall be required, but such skirting shall
not attach the mobile home permanently to the ground, provide a harborage for
rodents, or create a fire hazard.  Such skirting so installed shall be of fire
resistant materials and shall be equipped with an inspection door(s).
   (E)   Structures having an area not exceeding 10% of the square foot floor
area of the mobile home may be entirely enclosed if utilized for storage
purposes only.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
§ 154.09  ALTERATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make any alteration of any mobile home to
which a seal has been affixed if the alteration causes the mobile home to be in
violation of the Safety Code.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973) 
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Each and every violation of this chapter shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense, and any person found guilty of violating this chapter or any
of the provisions thereof shall be subjected to a fine of not to exceed $750. 
Each day of the continued violation shall constitute a separate additional
violation.  Nothing herein shall limit any other right or remedy of the city or
other person in interest, including the right to obtain an injunction of any
violation from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 884, passed 12-4-1973)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Intent and purpose
   
155.003   Annexed territory
   
155.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.005   Existing permits
   
155.006   Completion permits
   
155.007   Rules and definitions
General District Regulations
   
155.020   Intent and purpose
   
155.021   District schedules
   
155.022   Map and boundaries
A-1 Agricultural District
   
155.035   General
   
155.036   Permitted uses
   
155.037   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.038   Special uses
R-1, R-2 and R-2A Single-Family Residence Districts
   
155.055   General
   
155.056   Permitted uses
   
155.057   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.058   Special uses
   
155.059   R-2A requirements
R-3 Multiple-Family Residence District
   
155.070   General
   
155.071   Permitted uses
   
155.072   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.073   Special uses
R-4 Planned Residence District
   
155.085   General
   
155.086   Planned residential developments; compliance
   
155.087   Permitted uses, accessory uses and special uses
B-1 Neighborhood Business District
   
155.100   General
   
155.101   Permitted uses
   
155.102   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.103   Special uses
B-2 Community Business District
   
155.115   General
   
155.116   Permitted uses
   
155.117   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.118   Special uses
B-3 Planned Business District
   
155.130   General
   
155.131   Procedures and conditions for approval
   
155.132   Permitted uses
   
155.133   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.134   Special uses
B-4 Limited Business District
   
155.145   General
   
155.146   Permitted uses
   
155.147   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.148   Special uses
I-1 Industrial  District
   
155.160   General
   
155.161   Conditions of use
   
155.162   Permitted uses
   
155.163   Permitted accessory uses
   
155.164   Special uses
General Development Regulations
   
155.175   Purpose
   
155.176   Accessory uses
   
155.177   Accessory building
   
155.178   Bulk of building
   
155.179   Emergency and temporary occupancy building
   
155.180   Maximum height of buildings; exceptions
   
155.181   Buildings per lot; yards
   
155.182   Use and bulk of building
   
155.183   Infringement on governmental property
   
155.184   Corner and through lots
   
155.185   Contiguous parcels; lots
   
155.186   Division of lots
   
155.187   Frontage lot requirements
   
155.188   Nonconforming uses
   
155.189   General performance standards
   
155.190   Permitted uses
   
155.191   Individual sewer systems
   
155.192   Yards; exceptions; minimum requirements
   
155.193   Nonagricultural fences, walls, buffer strips, and similar structures
Supplementary Land Use and Area Bulk Regulations
   
155.205   Purpose
   
155.206   Churches and places of formal worship
   
155.207   Drive-in theaters
   
155.208   Fences, walls and hedges
   
155.209   Repair garages
   
155.210   Gasoline service stations
   
155.211   Urban home occupations
   
155.212   Junk yards
   
155.213   Lighting controls
   
155.214   Mobile homes; parking for inspection and sales
   
155.215   Plant nurseries and greenhouses
   
155.216   Public buildings
   
155.217   Public utility stations, exchanges and essential services
   
155.218   Private and parochial schools
   
155.219   Swimming pools
   
155.220   Camping trailers and recreational vehicles
   
155.221   Mobile home parks
   
155.222   Limitations
   
155.223   School-park dedications
   
155.224   Common land areas
Planned Unit Developments
   
155.235   General
   
155.236   Single-family planned unit developments
   
155.237   Combined single-/multiple-family planned unit developments
   
155.238   Multiple use planned unit developments
   
155.239   Permitted uses
   
155.240   Multiple dwelling/planned unit development
   
155.241   Business/planned unit development
   
155.242   Industrial/business planned unit development
   
155.243   Application
   
155.244   Conditions of approval
General Off-Street Parking and Loading Provisions
   
155.255   Purpose
Off-Street Parking
   
155.265   Accessory uses
   
155.266   Computation
   
155.267   Damage or destruction
   
155.268   Access aisles and space requirements
   
155.269   Ingress and egress
   
155.270   Lot lines
   
155.271   Screening and landscaping
   
155.272   Setback
   
155.273   Surfacing
   
155.274   Existing parking and loading facilities and uses
   
155.275   Joint parking facilities
   
155.276   Location of off-street parking facilities
   
155.277   Parking and loading in residential districts
   
155.278   Parking and loading in business and industrial districts
   
155.279   Off-site parking facilities
   
155.280   Other parking uses
   
155.281   Parking spaces required
Off-Street Loading and Unloading
   
155.290   General design
   
155.291   Below minimum floor area
   
155.292   Buffers
   
155.293   Location
   
155.294   Spaces not for parking
   
155.295   Size requirements
   
155.296   Repair and service
   
155.297   Special use; other uses
   
155.298   Surfacing
   
155.299   Loading and unloading spaces required
Sign Regulations
   
155.310   Purpose
   
155.311   General requirements
   
155.312   Illumination
   
155.313   Measurement of signs
   
155.314   Prohibited placement
   
155.315   Signs in residential and agricultural districts
   
155.316   Signs in business districts
   
155.317   Signs in industrial zones; size
   
155.318   Types of signs
   
155.319   Prohibited signs
   
155.320   Tagging
   
155.321   Maintenance
   
155.322   Removal of signs
   
155.323   Appeals
   
155.324   Permit requirements; application; nullification
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.335   Permits; applications
   
155.336   Board of Appeals
   
155.337   Administrative official; powers and duties
   
155.338   Compliance required
   
155.339   Stop orders
   
155.340   Prosecution
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Corners
   
Appendix B:   Lots
   
Appendix C:   Sign Area
   
Appendix D:   Tiedown Requirements
   
Appendix E:    Minimum District Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Madison, Illinois Zoning Code.
(Ord. 887, § 1.1, passed - -)
§ 155.002  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To serve as an implementing tool of comprehensive planning;
   (C)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   (D)   To encourage the development and arrangement of land uses and
structures that will yield the greatest social and economic benefits for the
city;
   (E)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and safe, convenient access to
property;
   (F)   To divide the city into zoning districts restricting and regulating
the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures and land for residential, business, manufacturing and
other specified land uses;
   (G)   To provide for the location, width, access points and design of
existing and future streets;
   (H)   To establish the extent to which water, sewer, storm water and other
utility and community services are to be provided;
   (I)   To establish minimum requirements and standards for development and
redevelopment within the area of the city’s jurisdiction to achieve reasonable
initial costs and to reduce future maintenance costs of public and private
improvements and services;
   (J)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
municipality.
(Ord. 887, § 1.2, passed - -)
§ 155.003  ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   Any territory hereafter annexed to the city shall automatically be in the
zone classification corresponding to the zone classification while under St.
Clair County’s or Madison County’s zoning jurisdiction, until duly changed by
an amendment to this code; except that the City Council with the advice of the
Planning Commission may annex any territory as any other zoning district or
districts herein established if all legal requirements for zoning the property
at the time of the annexation and the requirements for amending this code by
the extension of the zoning district provisions are met.
(Ord. 887, § 1.3, passed - -)
§ 155.004  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   Where this code imposes a greater restriction upon land, buildings or
structures than is imposed or required by existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this code shall govern.
(Ord. 887, § 1.4, passed - -)
§ 155.005  EXISTING PERMITS.
   This code is not intended to abrogate or annul any building permits,
certificates of occupancy, variances or other lawful permits issued before the
effective date of this code.
(Ord. 887, § 1.401, passed - -)
§ 155.006  COMPLETION PERMITS.
   Any building or structure for which a building permit has been issued prior
to the date of enactment of this code may be completed and used in accordance
with the plans, specifications, and permits on which the building permit was
granted, provided construction commences within 180 days of passage of this
code and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Ord. 887, § 1.5, passed - -)
§ 155.007  RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   In the application of this code, the rules and definitions contained in this
section shall be observed and applied except when the context clearly indicates
otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural,
the singular.
   ABANDONMENT.  An action to give up one’s rights or interests in property.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  A detached subordinate building or
structure, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main use
of the land and which is located on the same lot with the main building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the premises and does not change the basic character thereof as
determined by its principal use.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.  The person or persons designated by the
municipality to enforce and administer the provisions of this code or his or
her duly appointed representative(s). The Administrative Officer shall be the
Building Inspector.
   ALLEY.  A public access way which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS.  As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the existing facilities, or an
enlargement, whether by horizontal extensions or by increasing in height, or
the moving from one location or position to another.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL.  A change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC.  A domesticated animal is one which has extensively and
historically been a part of a family or household for pleasure, companionship
and protection. Domesticated animals are household pets and is inclusive of
animals, such as dogs, cats, parakeets, goldfish and painted turtles.
   ANIMAL, FARM.  Farm animals are those which have historically been bred,
reared and utilized for the production of meat, wool, leather and similar
products. This definition is inclusive of all farm animals, such as horses,
cattle, rabbits, sheep, geese, chickens, ducks, snakes and catfish.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL.  Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
   ANIMAL, WILD.  Wild animals are those animals, fowl, reptiles and fish of
the North American Continent not domesticated such as bears, raccoons,
squirrels, alligators, and gila monsters; animals, such as fowl, reptiles and
fish from other continents shall automatically be considered wild.
   APARTMENT.  A suite of rooms or a room in a building arranged and intended
for a place of residence of a single family or a group of individuals living
together as a single housekeeping unit.
   APARTMENT HOTEL.  An apartment house which furnishes for the use of its
tenants, services ordinarily furnished by hotels, but the privileges of which
are not primarily available to the public.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A multi-family dwelling used or occupied by four or more
families living independently of each other in dwelling units, such dwelling
units normally being rented or used other than by the day, by the same occupant
for a continuous period ordinarily of six months or more.
   AREA, GROSS.  The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed as a PUD or for subdivision, including the area to be dedicated for
street and alley rights-of-way and public use.
   AREA, NET.  The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed as a PUD or for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street
and alley rights-of-way and public use.
   AREA OF ZONING LOT.  The total horizontal area (square footage) within the
property lines of a lot, excluding public streets and alleys, meeting the
district requirement of this code.
   ATTACHED BUILDING.  A building attached to another building by a common wall
(such wall being a solid wall with or without windows and doors) and a common
roof.
   AUDITORIUM.  A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater,
school, recreation building, or other building assigned to the gathering of
people as an audience, to hear lectures, plays and other presentations.
   AUTOMOBILE PARKING AREA.  A lot or part thereof used for the storage or
parking of motor vehicles with or without the payment of rent or charges.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA.  A parcel of land used for the display and sale of
new or used automobiles, where repair work is permitted.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD.  Any place where two or more motor vehicles, not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including any
used farm vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and
not being restored to operating conditions; and including the commercial
salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
   BARRIER (NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL).  Any street, highway, river, pond, canal,
railroad, levee, embankment, screening by a fence or hedge, or similar
obstruction.
   BASEMENT.  A story having more than one-half its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
   BLOCK.  An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways, or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way), or a combination of
streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines or
waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three or more persons, but not more than ten, who
are not members of the keeper’s family, but not open on a daily, overnight or
per-meal basis to transient guests.
   BUILDABLE AREA.  The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum
setback requirements of this code have been complied with.
   BUILDING.  Any structure, whether temporary, semi-permanent, or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter, or protection of
persons, property, chattels, animals, or substances of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front wall of the building to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of mansard roof, or to
the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE.  See SETBACK LINE.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  A non-accessory building in which the principal use of
the zoning lot is conducted.
   CAMPING TRAILER SALES AREA.  A parcel of land used for the display and sale
of new or used camping trailers and where repair work is permitted.
   CAMPING TRAILERS.  Also referred to as travel trailers as opposed to a
mobile home. Generally is designed for temporary occupancy as a vacation
dwelling, generally does not have self contained sanitary facilities, can be
operated independently of utility connections, is limited in width to
approximately eight feet and in length to approximately 32 feet, and is
designed to be moved by a motorized vehicle.
   CHURCH.  A religious association providing worship services on a regular
schedule.
   CITY.  Refers to and is interpreted to mean Madison, Illinois.
   CLINIC.  A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons but who are not provided with board or room nor kept
overnight on the premises.
   CLUB.  A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some common purposes and paying regular dues, not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
   COMMISSION.  Planning Commission of the municipality.
   COMMON AREA.  Any area or space designed for joint use of tenants or owners
occupying a mobile home development or other development.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the
municipality for the coordinated physical development including among other
things plans and programs regarding the location, character and extent of
highways, transportation routes, bridges, public buildings or uses, utilities,
schools, residential, commercial or industrial land uses, parks, forests, dams,
drainage facilities and projects affecting the conservation of natural
resources of the municipality.
   COVERAGE. Total square footage of ground floor area expressed as square
footage. (See LOT COVERAGE and
Appendix B)
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one end open for
vehicular traffic and the other permanently terminated by a turn-around for
vehicles.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Illinois Department of Public Health unless otherwise
stated.
   DESIGN.  The arrangement of uses on the land and use of land for easements,
lots and rights-of- way, including materials, alignment, grade, and width of
these elements.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the municipality within which
certain uniform regulations and requirements of various combinations thereof
apply under the provisions of this code.
   DRIVEWAY.  A minor private way used for vehicles on a zoning or mobile home
lot or for common access to a small group of lots, or common parking
facilities.
   DRY CLEANER RETAIL.  A retail limited processing dry cleaner primarily
serving individual public consumers.
   DRY CLEANER WHOLESALE.  A business primarily processing dry cleaning for
other businesses as opposed to the individual public.
   DUMP.  A lot or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by abandonment,
dumping, burial, burning or other means and for whatever purpose, of garbage,
sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts thereof, or
waste material of any kind.
   DWELLING.  Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as
living quarters for one or more families, other than hotels, motels, tourist
homes, clubs, hospitals, or similar uses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by four or more families each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY.  A detached principal building designed for or used as
a dwelling exclusively by one family as an independent housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY.  A detached principal building designed for or used
as a dwelling exclusively by three families each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A detached principal building designed for or used as
a dwelling exclusively by two families each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A residential unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one family including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT.  A vested or acquired right to use land, other than as a tenant,
for a specific purpose, such right being held by someone other than the owner
who holds title to the land.
   ENCLOSED BUILDING.  A building separated on all sides from adjacent open
space or other buildings by fixed exterior walls or party walls, with openings
only for windows and doors, and covered by a permanent roof.
   ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES.  The erection,
replacement, construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or
municipal departments, of underground or overhead, gas, electrical, steam,
water transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply
or disposal systems, including poles, wire, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith,
reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public
utilities or municipal departments or commissions or for the public health or
safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   A single individual doing his or her own cooking and living upon
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit; or
      (2)   A collective body of persons doing their own cooking and living
together upon the premises as a separate housekeeping unit in a domestic
relationship based upon birth, marriage, adoption or employment as domestic
servants; or
      (3)   A group of not more than three unrelated persons doing their own
cooking and living together on the premises as a separate housekeeping unit
pursuant to a mutual housekeeping agreement (not including a group occupying a
boarding or rooming house, club, fraternity, or hotel).
   FENCE.  An enclosure or barrier such as wooden slats and posts, wire, iron,
and the like, used as a boundary or means of protection or confinement
constructed with materials of equal character, density and design.
   FLOOD AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation by water as defined by a
soils analysis or other appropriate means and includes the overflow of natural
waterways, interior ponding and flooding of or resulting from drainage runoff.
   FLOOR AREA. The area included within outside walls of a building or portion
thereof, including habitable penthouses and attic space but not including vent
shafts, courts, or uninhabitable areas below ground level or in attics.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO.  The ratio of total floor area, in square feet, of all
buildings on a lot to total lot area, in square feet, excluding basements.
   GARAGE - PARKING, PRIVATE. A building or portion thereof for the storage of
one or more motor vehicles for persons living on the premises.
   GARAGE - PARKING, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof used by the public
for the storage or parking of motor vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building or premises or portion thereof used for
the retail sale of gasoline, oil or other fuel, automotive parts, supplies, or
accessories for motor vehicles and which may include, as an incidental use
only, facilities used for polishing, greasing, washing or otherwise cleaning or
light servicing of motor vehicles but not including liquefied petroleum gas
distribution facilities.
   HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof used for diagnosis, treatment and
care of human ailments including sanitariums but not including clinics, rest
homes, convalescent homes or nursing homes.
   HOTEL. A building designed or used for occupancy normally as the temporary
lodging place of individuals, having at least six guest rooms, where a general
kitchen and dining room may be provided but where there are no cooking
facilities in any guest room.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas and storm water) to be installed or agreed to be
installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets,
and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the general use of lot
owners in the development.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
both in, or in conjunction with, the development.
   JUNK YARD. Any area where scrap, metal, paper, rags, or similar materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including auto and building salvage yards.
   KENNEL. Any structure or lot on which four or more domesticated animals over
four months of age are kept.
   LAND USE PLAN. The long-range plan for the desirable use of land in the
municipality as officially adopted and as amended from time to time.
   LAUNDRIES.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL LAUNDRY.  A business that provides washing,
drying and ironing services operated by the employees on the premises.
      (2)   LAUNDROMAT.  A business that provides home-type washing, drying and
ironing machines for hire to be used by the customers on the premises.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces where
lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement but not
open on a daily, overnight, or per-meal basis to transient guests.
   LOT. A portion or parcel of land (whether a portion of a platted subdivision
or otherwise) occupied or intended to be occupied by a building or use and its
accessories together with such yards as are required under the provisions of
this code having not less than the minimum area, width and depth required by
this code for a lot in the district in which such land is situated and having
its principal frontage on a street or on such other means of access as
permitted in accordance with the provisions of this code. The minimum area of a
lot as defined herein must be an integral unit of land under unified ownership
in fee or in co-tenancy, or under legal control tantamount to such ownership,
which ownership or control must continue for the existence of the building or
buildings permitted to be situated on the lot.  The word LOT shall include the
words “plot,” “piece,” and “parcel.”
   LOT AREA. See AREA OF ZONING LOT.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street. The point of intersection of the street
lines is the “corner.” (See
Appendix C.)
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. See LOT, THROUGH.
   LOT INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut upon any street.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. The street on
which a building’s frontage is oriented shall determine the location of the
front lot line provided the front setback is no less than the average setback
of existing buildings.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The rear lot line is the lot line or lot lines most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot lines. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is called a street side lot line. A side
lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior side
lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angles to
its depth.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable unit, which is eight body feet or more in
width and 32 body feet or more in length, and constructed to be towed on its
own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of construction to
the location or subsequent locations and designed to be used without a
permanent foundation and connected to utilities for year round occupancy with
or without a permanent foundation. All mobile homes must be built to the
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.
   MOBILE HOME, DEPENDENT. A mobile home which does not have toilet and bath or
shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME, DOUBLE-WIDE. Consists of two mobile units joined at the side
into a single home but kept on their separate chassis for repeated
transportation.  Mobile homes, double-wides, sectionals and modules are
transported to their sites by trucks whose movements are controlled by state
highway regulations, or they are shipped on railroad flat cars.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home with self-contained toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the
exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PAD. That part of an individual mobile home space or lot beneath
the mobile home, including the concrete portion of the pad.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land under unified ownership and control on
which two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle,
or enclosure used or intended for use as part of the equipment of such mobile
home park, includes courts, developments, communities.
   MOBILE HOME SALES AREA. A parcel of land used for the display and sale of
new or used mobile homes and where repair work is permitted.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. Any portion of a mobile home park designed for the use or
occupancy of one mobile home.
   MOBILE MODULE. A factory-fabricated, transportable building unit designed to
be incorporated at a building site on a permanent foundation into a structure
to be used for commercial, educational or industrial purposes on a permanent
foundation.
   MOBILE/PORTABLE MARQUEE. A term commonly used to mean any street graphic not
designed to be permanently attached to a building or part thereof or to be
anchored to the ground. Such street graphics primarily include but are not
limited to signs attached to wood or metal frames designed to be self-
supporting and movable; paper, cardboard, or canvas signs wrapped around
supporting poles, and the like.
   MODULAR HOUSING. A building assembly or system of building subassemblies,
designed for habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the
necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems,
which is of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled by a
manufacturer, on or off the building site, for installation, or assembly and
installation, on the building site, with a permanent foundation. A manufactured
housing unit shall be in compliance with the safety codes as promulgated by the
Illinois Department of Public Health and the City of Madison.
   MOTEL OR MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached or detached
sleeping or living units, for the accommodation of transient guests and not
customarily including individual cooking or kitchen facilities, the units
having convenient access to offstreet parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guests or occupants.
   NOISE AND INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES, CONDITIONS AND OPERATIONS.
      (1)   Creation of unreasonable physical hazard by fire, explosion,
radiation or other cause to persons or property.
      (2)   Discharge of any liquid or solid waste into any stream or body of
water or into any public or private disposal system or into the ground so as to
contaminate any water supply including underground water supply.
      (3)   Maintenance or storage of any material either indoors or outdoors
so as to cause or to facilitate the breeding of vermin.
      (4)   Emission of smoke, measured at the point of emission, which
constitutes an unreasonable hazard to the health, safety or welfare of any
persons.
      (5)   Fly ash or dust which can cause damage to the health of persons,
animals, or plant life or to other forms of property, or excessive soil,
measured at or beyond the property line of the premises on which the aforesaid
fly ash or dust is created or caused.
      (6)   Creation or causation of any unreasonably offensive odors
discernible at or beyond any property line of the premises on which the
aforesaid odor is created or caused.
      (7)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonable reflection or direct
glare, by any process, lighting or reflection material at or beyond any
property line of the premises on which the aforesaid reflection or direct glare
is created or caused.
      (8)   Creation or maintenance of any unreasonably distracting or
objectionable vibration and/or electrical disturbances discernible at or beyond
any property line of the premises on which the aforesaid vibration or
electrical disturbance is created or maintained.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure or portion thereof
conflicting with the provisions of this code applicable to the district in
which it is situated.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land legally existing at the time
of adoption of this code or any amendment thereto and which does not conform
with the use regulations of the district in which located.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL. An office (other than a service office and other than
an office for care and/or treatment of, or medical attention to, animals as
distinguished from persons) for the practice of professions, such as the
offices of physicians, dentists, attorneys-at-law, architects, engineers,
artists, musicians, teachers and others who through training are qualified to
perform services of a professional nature and where there is no storage, sale
or display of merchandise on the premises.
   OFFICE, SERVICE. An office in which are offered services by real estate
agents, insurance agents, public stenographers, brokers, or others who through
training are duly qualified to perform services of an executive nature (as
distinguished from a professional office) and where there is no storage, sale
or display of merchandise on the premises.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged, and made available for the storage of private
passenger automobiles only, or occupants of the building or buildings for which
the parking area is developed and is accessory.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
other public way, used for the parking of automobiles or other motor vehicles
and available to the public whether for a fee or free for clients or customers.
   PARKING LANE. A lane of a street used primarily for vehicular parking.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space with a public or private parking area of
not less than 200 square feet (10 feet by 20 feet), exclusive of access drives,
or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work areas for the storage of a
passenger automobile or a commercial vehicle under 1 ton capacity.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A closed perimeter formation consisting of materials
such as concrete, mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the
ground below the frost line, excluding the use of piers.
   PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
or similar entity.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A residential, commercial or industrial
development on a parcel of land in single ownership and consisting of two or
more buildings having any yard, court, parking or loading space in common.
   PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, cross sections, profiles,
working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or has
prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required in
this code and which plans shall conform to any requirements of the Planning
Commission as to scale and details for submittal to the appropriate officials
of the municipality for consideration, approval or disapproval.
   PLAT. Any map, plan or chart of a city, town, section or subdivision,
indicating the location and boundaries of individual properties, public
improvements, utility locations and which meets the requirements of this code.
   PLOT. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or metes and bounds.
   PREMISES. A lot together with all the buildings and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   PROPERTY LINE. A recorded boundary of a plot or plat.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly owned open area, including, but not limited
to the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches, waterways,
parkways, and streets.
   PUBLIC SYSTEM (WATER OR SEWER). A system which is owned and operated by a
local governmental authority or by an established public utility company. Such
systems are usually existing systems serving a municipality, a township, an
urban county, or a water or sewer district established and directly controlled
under the laws of this state.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. A vehicle used for or designed to transport camping
trailers, or the integration of camping trailer and towing vehicle into a
motorized camping trailer or recreational vehicle.
   RESIDENCE. A stationary detached principal building designed for or used as
a dwelling as distinguished from a mobile (dwelling) home.
   ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs and gutter which lies between the right-of-way
lines.
   ROOF. The external upper covering of a building.
   ROOF LINE. A horizontal line parallel to the average ground level of the
structure along the front of the building designating the highest point of a
flat roof, or where the flat surface area of a gable, hip, mansard, or gambrel
roof is in view from the ground level, that line of demarcation separating the
roof and the vertically structured facade, or a line along the front of the
building delimiting the roof line between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
   ROOM. An unsubdivided portion of the interior of a dwelling unit, excluding
bathrooms, kitchens, closets, hallways and service porches and the like.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. The rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the
Trailer Coach Control Law of the State of Illinois as issued and in force by
the State of Illinois Department of Public Health, unless otherwise specified.
   SETBACK LINE. The distance in linear feet measured on a horizontal plane
from the centerline of a street and/or from a lot line to a building or
structure on the lot.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory and not discretionary.
   SIGN. Any letters, figures, design, symbol, trademark, or illuminating
device intended to attract attention to any place, subject, person, firm,
corporation, public performance, article, machine, or merchandise whatsoever
and painted, printed or constructed and displayed in any manner whatsoever out
of doors for advertising, identification or announcement purposes.
   SIGN AREA. The total surface area of the entire sign, including all parts
and appurtenances thereof (except principal supports).
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere other than upon
the premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. As used in this code, a sign used for purposes of
notification of the public of an event or other occurrence of public interest,
such as church service, political rally, civic meeting or similar event.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. As used in this code, a sign advertising the development
or improvement of a property by a builder, contractor or other person
furnishing services, materials, or labor to said premises, which sign is
intended for a limited period of display, and erected on the same lot with the
work being done.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any sign utilizing the repeated or intermittent flashing of
light.
   SIGN, FREE-STANDING. A detached sign which is supported by one or more
uprights, poles or braces in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, IDENTITY. Any sign which carries only the name of the firm, person,
the major enterprise or the principal product offered for sale on the premises,
or a combination of these.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A changeable copy sign freestanding.
   SIGN, MISCELLANEOUS. A sign, banner or other advertising device or display
constructed of cloth, canvas, cardboard, wallboard or other light temporary
material, with or without a structural frame, intended for a temporary period
of display, such as decorative displays for holidays or public demonstrations.
   SIGN, MOBILE. Any sign mounted and projecting on a vehicle or which is
designed to be moved from location to location.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A display sign which is attached directly to the wall of a
building and which extends more than one foot from the face of the wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent or
lease of the specific lot and/or building upon which the sign is erected or
displayed.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a
building or structure.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A sign advertising the general development, sale and/or
subdivision of land, and displayed or erected upon the subject property, as
distinguished from a real estate sign.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign painted on, attached to, or erected against the wall of
a building, or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel
to the plane of the wall and extending not more than one foot from the face of
the wall.
   SITE. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   SLOPE. The degree of natural inclination of the existing ground.
   STREET. A general term denoting a public or private way for the purpose of
vehicular travel. The term includes all facilities which normally occur within
the right-of-way; it shall also include such other designation for a street as:
a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue, boulevard,
lane, place, drive, court or as otherwise designated, but excluding an alley or
a way for pedestrian use only.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with intersections
at grade and which may have direct access to abutting properties and on which
geometric design and traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe
movement of through traffic.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties,
providing for minimum speeds and traffic volumes.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS OR SERVICE ROAD. A local street parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets providing access to abutting properties.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. See MOBILE HOME.
   TRAVEL WAY. That portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
   USED FOR.  Include the phrases “arranged for,” “designed for,” “intended
for,” “occupied for,” and “maintained for.”
   VEHICLE. A receptacle in which something is placed in order to be moved by
some means of conveyance on wheels, runners or similar methods.
   YARD. An open space not occupied or obstructed by any structure or portion
of a structure, except fences as regulated and otherwise expressly provided for
herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
front lot line and the nearest line or point of the principal building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest line or point of the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the side lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. An appellate, interpretive and advisory body
designated to assist in the administration of the zoning provisions of this
code.
   ZONING MAP. The zoning map or maps of the municipality together with all
amendments subsequently adopted.
(Ord. 887, § 1.8, passed  - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
GENERAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.020  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   For the purposes of this code the entire municipality is hereby divided into
the following zoning districts:
   Agricultural District
   A-1   Agricultural District
   Residential Districts
   R-1   Single-Family Residence District
   R-2   Single-Family Residence District
   R-3   Multiple-Family Residence District
   R-4   Planned Residential District
   Business Districts
   B-1   Neighborhood Business District
   B-2   Community Business District
   B-3   Planned Business District
   B-4   Limited Business District
   Industrial District
   I-1   Industrial District
(Ord. 887, § 2.1, passed - -)
§ 155.021  DISTRICT SCHEDULES.
   To increase the convenience of use of this code, schedules have been created
to place as many regulations as possible on one page. The schedules are: Area-
Bulk,
Appendix E following this chapter.
(Ord. 887, § 2.2, passed - -)
§ 155.022  MAP AND BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the zone
district map. The zoning districts and boundaries are hereby adopted and
established as shown on the zone district map, together with all notations,
references, data, district boundaries and other information thereof, and are
made a part of the developmental code by reference. The zoning map properly
attested shall remain on file in the office of the Administrative Official. 
Zone district boundaries shall be as follows: Where district boundaries are so
indicated that they are approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets,
the centerlines of alleys, or the centerlines of highways, such district
boundaries shall be construed as being the centerline of that street, alley or
highway.
(Ord. 887, § 2.3, passed - -)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 155.035  GENERAL.
   The Agricultural District within the jurisdiction of the municipality
contains areas where soil, water, vegetal, and topographical resources
generally provide conditions well suited to the raising of crops and farm
animals. The district is designed to prevent the intrusion of nonagricultural
land use and development which would hinder agricultural pursuits by reason of
congestion on public roads, chemical and biological pollution of air and water,
environmental conditions, soil erosion, and the depletion of natural cover
causing excessive runoff of storm water onto and across agricultural land. The
district is designed to protect and preserve the areas of high agricultural
productivity and is intended to preserve conditions suitable to agricultural
pursuits.
(Ord. 887, § 2.4, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 155.036  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All uses commonly classified as agriculture, horticulture, or forestry
including crop and tree farming, truck farming, gardening, nursery operation,
dairy farming, livestock raising, animal and poultry breeding, raising and
feeding, forestry operations together with the operation of machinery or
vehicles.
   (B)   Animal hospitals, provided that all animals are kept in a completely
enclosed soundproofed building and further provided that adequate safeguards
(structural, mechanical and locational) shall be provided to protect adjacent
properties from the effects of noisome or injurious substances, conditions and
operations.
   (C)   Fishing lakes, including fee fishing, or clubs provided that no
building, parking lot, or other intense use activity is located nearer than 500
feet to any dwelling on another zoning lot.
   (D)   Greenhouses.
   (E)   Living quarters for persons employed in agricultural or related
activities that are conducted on the premises.
   (F)   Non-commercial recreational activities.
   (G)   One-family residence dwellings.
   (H)   Public service uses including filtration plants, pump stations, water
reservoirs, police and fire stations or other governmental uses of the
municipality.
   (I)   Radio or television transmission towers.
   (J)   Railroad rights-of-way and trackage, but not including classification
yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities.
   (K)   Temporary produce stands for the sale of agricultural produce raised
on the premises, provided that adequate off-street parking is available and
that major traffic congestion or hazard would not be created in conjunction
with the location or access thereto.
(Ord. 887, § 2.401, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 155.037  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses generally. Accessory uses clearly associated with and
supplementary to the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
   (B)   Boats. Storage of pleasure boats.
   (C)   Camping Trailer. The storage of not more than one unoccupied camp
trailer.
   (D)   Construction. Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings for
sale or rental offices or show houses for use during construction operations.
Provided all other regulations of the district are complied with, but in no
case shall such office be continued beyond the duration of construction of the
project or one year, whichever is greater. However, such time limit may be
extended for one year by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (E)   Horses. Keeping of horses for private purposes only, and not for rent
or hire on a zoning lot whose principal use is intended to be a one-family
dwelling, provided that at least one acre is allocated for each animal and
provided further that all buildings for housing such animals shall be subject
to all requirements for accessory buildings in the “A-1” district, and that
such buildings are located at least 100 feet from the nearest existing
principal buildings on an adjacent lot, or 50 feet from the nearest side lot
line whichever is greater.
   (F)   Pets. Keeping of household pets, provided kennels are not maintained,
and provided no animal, reptile, bird or similar classification or species
normally considered wild, as opposed to domesticated, is maintained or kept.
   (G)   Private. Greenhouses, tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts,
patios, private swimming pools.
   (H)   Servants accommodations.  Servants accommodations for professional
servants, caretakers, watchmen, or custodians, but not as a separate detached
one-family dwelling on the same lot.
(Ord. 887, § 2.402, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 155.038  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Agricultural related uses.
   (B)   Airports.
   (C)   Animal sewage lagoon.
   (D)   Any dwelling unit less than 750 square feet.
   (E)   Carnivals, circuses, and similar temporary transient amusement
enterprises.
   (F)   Churches and other places of worship, but not including funeral
chapels or mortuary chapels.
   (G)   Convalescent or nursing homes.
   (H)   Explosive uses of any kind.
   (I)   Golf courses of regulation size but not including commercially
operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses and provided that no
clubhouse, parking lot or accessory building shall be located nearer than 500
feet to any dwelling unit on another zoning lot.
   (J)   Governmental facilities and uses other than the municipality.
   (K)   Gun clubs, if properly protected and located not nearer than 1,000
feet to any residence other than that of the owner or lessee of the site.
   (L)   Hospitals, clinics and sanitariums.
   (M)   Kennels.
   (N)   Marina or boat docks.
   (O)   Parking lots.
   (P)   Mineral and soil extraction development.
   (Q)   Private clubs, lodges, or camps.
   (R)   Riding stables.
   (S)   Sale barn.
   (T)   Sanitary landfill and other landfills.
   (U)   Schools and colleges for academic instruction.
   (V)   Private sewage treatment plant.
   (W)   Stockyards, commercial livestock or poultry feeding or agricultural
processing plants.
   (X)   Travel trailer parks.
   (Y)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
(Ord. 887, § 2.403, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
R-1, R-2 AND R-2A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.055  GENERAL.
   The Single-Family Residence Districts as differentiated herein and the
district locations as depicted on the zone district map reflect the variety of
physical and social characteristics found in the municipality to the extent
that the range of such conditions and characteristics can be divided into
meaningful categories. It is the purpose of these regulations to encourage the
creation and maintenance of stable and enduring residential areas by
establishing limitations on the use and character of development so as to take
advantage of, or to avoid conflict with, natural topography, existing
development, arrangements and locations of existing or planned community
facilities.
(Ord. 887, § 2.5, passed - -)
§ 155.056  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Churches and other places of worship, but not including funeral
chapels or mortuary chapels.
   (B)   Golf courses of regulation size but not including “par 3” golf
courses; and provided that no clubhouse, parking lot or accessory building
shall be located nearer than 500 feet to any dwelling unit or other zoning lot.
   (C)   Governmental uses, facilities and buildings of the municipality.
   (D)   One-family residence dwelling.
   (E)   Public libraries, museums, playgrounds, parks, recreational or
community centers or grounds.
   (F)   Mobile homes permitted on permanent foundation in “R-2” district only.
(Ord. 887, § 2.501, passed - -)
§ 155.057  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses clearly subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the
principal use of the property.
   (B)   Boats.  Storage of pleasure boats.
   (C)   Camping Trailer. The storage of not more than one unoccupied camp
trailer and recreational vehicle.
   (D)   Carports.
   (E)   Garage.
   (F)   Off-street parking.
   (G)   Pets. Keeping of household pets, provided kennels are not maintained,
and provided no animal, reptile, bird or similar classification or species
normally considered wild, as opposed to domesticated, is maintained or kept.
   (H)   Private greenhouses, tool sheds, garages or carports, tennis courts,
patios,  private swimming pools.
   (I)   Servants accommodations for professional servants, caretakers,
watchmen, or custodian, but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on
same lot.
   (J)   Shed.
   (K)   Vegetable garden.
(Ord. 887, § 2.502, passed - -)
§ 155.058  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Cemeteries and mausoleums in conjunction therewith.
   (B)   Day care or nursery schools.
   (C)   Non-residential private parking lots.
   (D)   Governmental uses other than the municipality.
   (E)   Home occupations.
   (F)   Hospitals and sanitariums.
   (G)   Landfill, but sanitary landfills not permitted.
   (H)   Medical and dental offices, but not including any retail drug sales.
   (I)   Private lodges, clubs or camps.
   (J)   Public, private or parochial schools offering courses of instruction
at elementary and secondary levels in accordance with standards for compulsory
education.
   (K)   Two-family and multiple-family dwelling.
   (L)   Sewage facilities, private.
   (M)   Utilities.  Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
   (N)   Mobile home parks only in “R-1” and “R-2” districts only.
(Ord. 887, § 2.503, passed - -)
§ 155.059  R-2A REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirements of the “R-2A” Single-Family Residence District shall
be the same as the requirements of the “R-2” Single Family Residence District
in Appendix E Minimum Zoning District Regulations, except for the building line
width in linear feet shall be reduced from 65 feet to 50 feet; and
   (B)   All references to “R-2” Single Family Residence District, except as to
the description and requirements of same as found in Appendix E Minimum Zoning
District Regulations, shall also refer to “R-2A” Single Family Residence
District.
(Ord. 1339, passed 11-19-1996)
R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.070  GENERAL.
   The Multiple-Family Residence District and the district locations as shown
on the zone district map reflect the need and desirability for multiple family
housing. It is the purpose of these districts to encourage the creation and
maintenance of the stable and enduring multiple residence districts by
establishing limitations on the use, character and density of development of
land so as to take advantage of, or to avoid conflicts with, natural
topography, existing development, arrangement and location of existing or
planned community facilities. These districts may also be utilized for the
appropriate use of redevelopment areas where obsolescence and socio-economic
demands would suggest higher densities as necessary to encourage the reuse of
such areas.
(Ord. 887, § 2.6, passed - -)
§ 155.071  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Same as “R-1.”
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings.
   (C)   Row houses not to exceed eight attached in a single instance.
(Ord. 887, § 2.601, passed - -)
§ 155.072  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
   (B)   Same as “R-1” except parking lots and garages serving an apartment
building are permitted.
(Ord. 887, § 2.602, passed - -)
§ 155.073  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Same as “R-1” except for parking lots.
   (B)   Boarding and rooming houses.
   (C)   Dormitories or similar uses.
   (D)   Nursing homes.
   (E)   Orphanages.
   (F)   Medical and dental offices.
   (G)   Rest homes.
   (H)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
(Ord. 887, § 2.603, passed - -)
R-4 PLANNED RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 155.085  GENERAL.
   The purpose of this zoning district is to provide areas suitable for planned
residential developments. Areas having access to urban services, utilities, and
public improvements contain potentially significant site planning advantages
for planned residential developments. It is the intent of this zone district to
maximize the public welfare through the design review of sites especially
favorable for planned residential development. This zoning district provides an
alternate zoning method to developmental design, increases the flexibility of
solving common development problems and provides for a design review to
potentially enhance the aesthetic quality, consumer benefits and marketability
of residential developments and to reduce the capital investment necessary for
development, utilities and public improvements.
(Ord. 887, § 2.7, passed - -)
§ 155.086  PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS; COMPLIANCE.
   Planned residential developments in this district shall not require a
special use permit but shall comply with all applicable procedures and
conditions.
(Ord. 887, § 2.701, passed - -)
§ 155.087  PERMITTED USES, ACCESSORY USES AND SPECIAL USES.
   Any use permitted in the other “R” zoning districts is permitted in the R-
4 District.
(Ord. 887, § 2.702, passed - -)
B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.100  GENERAL.
   (A)   The Neighborhood Business District of the municipality is intended to
provide for certain limited sales and service facilities located in residential
areas to constitute a convenience to the residents of the immediate
neighborhood. The district is limited to size and facilities to preserve and
protect the general character of the residential areas surrounding these
particular districts.
   (B)   The establishment and/or expansion of any Neighborhood Business
Districts shall conform to the following additional locational, design, area
and bulk, and use requirements:
      (1)   Design Standards. The lot on which the neighborhood shopping unit
is situated shall be landscaped and maintained in conformity with the general
character of the surrounding area. There shall be provided and maintained along
rear lines and side lines of the lot a planting or other appropriate screen of
at least ten feet in depth and of a density adequate to provide visual
screening from adjacent properties. Yard requirements for a lot on which a
neighborhood shopping unit is located shall not be less than the yard
requirements of the most restrictive abutting zoning district.
      (2)   Access Ways. Any access way to any off-street parking lot or
loading berth shall be located at least ten feet from any lot line.
      (3)   Refuse Containers. All garbage or other refuse shall be in
removable, visually screened, covered containers.
(Ord. 887, § 2.8, passed - -)
§ 155.101  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Barber, beauty, bakery shops.
   (B)   Candy, ice cream, drug, food, fruit, hobby, meat, self-service, and
similar retail stores.
   (C)   Churches and similar uses.
   (D)   Service offices such as realtors, optometrists.
   (E)   Postal substations.
   (F)   Public utility collection offices.
   (G)   Physicians, dentists and similar professions.
   (H)   Retail clothing, hardware, jewel and similar uses.
   (I)   Restaurants but not drive-in kinds.
   (J)   Telephone booths.
(Ord. 887, § 2.801, passed - -)
§ 155.102  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
   (B)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided
that such storage shall be located on the same lot with the business and shall
be within a completely enclosed building.
   (C)   Telephone booths.
(Ord. 887, § 2.802, passed - -)
§ 155.103  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms provided a business occupies the
ground floor.
   (B)   Automotive service stations.
   (C)   Drive-in banking.
   (E)   Eating and drinking establishments such as taverns.
   (F)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
   (G)   Governmental uses other than the municipality.
   (H)   Mineral and soil extraction development.
(Ord. 887, § 2.803, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1339, passed 11-19-1996)
B-2 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.115  GENERAL.
   The Community Business District of the municipality is intended to provide
for areas within the municipality in which the majority of commercial
activities would be located. These districts will provide for both pedestrian
and highway oriented business activities.
(Ord. 887, § 2.9, passed - -)
§ 155.116  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any retail use selling convenience and durable goods.
   (B)   Apartment hotels, hotels, motels, and similar uses.
   (C)   Amusement and recreation uses but not drive-in theaters.
   (D)   Cultural and philanthropic uses.
   (E)   Financial institutions and similar uses.
   (F)   Funeral chapels and uses.
   (G)   General office uses.
   (H)   Governmental offices.
   (I)   Personal service uses.
   (J)   Professional service uses.
   (K)   Preparation and manufacture of goods or products for retail sale on
the premises only, provided that such manufacture, processing or treatment
shall be clearly incidental and essential to the retail business conducted on
the premises and further provided that not more than five persons (exclusive of
manager) shall be engaged in the manufacture, processing or treatment of
products, and that all such operations create no undue noise, odor, dust,
smoke, vibration or other similar nuisance.
   (L)   Automotive sales, repair, and similar uses.
   (M)   Boat showrooms.
   (N)   Bowling alleys.
   (O)   Drive-in restaurants and theaters.
   (P)   Eating and drinking establishments.
   (Q)   Feed stores and similar uses.
   (R)   Membership clubs and public or charitable institutions.
   (S)   Personal service shops, including barber and beauty shops, shoe repair
shops, dry and tailoring.
(Ord. 887, § 2.901, passed - -)
§ 155.117  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplementary to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading.
   (C)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided
that such storage shall be located on the lot with the retail, service or
commercial use, and shall be within a completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 887, § 2.902, passed - -)
§ 155.118  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Animal hospital.
   (B)   Car wash.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwelling.
   (D)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
   (E)   Mineral and soil extraction development.
(Ord. 887, § 2.903, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1339, passed 11-19-1996)
B-3 PLANNED BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.130  GENERAL.
   The Planned Business District of the municipality is designed to provide for
maximum commercial site design and utilization in areas favorable for
commercial growth but experiencing a variety of developmental problems. These
problems may relate to existing or future traffic, land acquisition,
topographical, utility and related problem areas. This zone district provides
maximum flexibility for the developer to create an attractive, profitable
commercial enterprise and for the municipality to maximize vehicular and
pedestrian safety, to potentially reduce capital expenditures for public
improvements and to create a more attractive community. This zone district will
facilitate the combination and establishment of developments and uses in
locations where it would be appropriate under approved site plans and
conditions necessary to protect the general welfare.
(Ord. 887, § 2.10, passed - -)
§ 155.131  PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL.
   The procedures and conditions of approval for a planned commercial
development in an area zoned “B-3” are the same as for a special use but no
permit is required. If an area is not zoned “B-3” the procedure is the same as
any zoning amendment.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1001, passed - -)
§ 155.132  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Within this zone district only planned commercial developments will be
permitted and no special use permit shall be required for commercial uses.
   (B)   Any use permitted in the “B-1” or “B-2” business districts.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1002, passed - -)
§ 155.133  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Any accessory use permitted in the “B-1” or “B-2” business district is a
permitted accessory use in the B-3 district.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1003, passed - -)
§ 155.134  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
   (B)   Governmental uses other than the municipality.
   (C)   Mineral and soil extraction development.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1004, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1339, passed 11-19-1996)
B-4 LIMITED BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 155.145  GENERAL.
   (A)   The Limited Business District of the municipality is intended to
provide for certain limited sales and service facilities located in and
adjacent to residential areas. The district is limited by size and facilities
to preserve and protect the general character of the residential areas
surrounding these particular districts.
   (B)   The establishment and/or expansion of any Limited Business Districts
shall conform to the following additional locational, design, area and bulk,
and use requirements:
      (1)   Design Standards. The lot on which the shopping unit is situated
shall be landscaped and maintained in conformity with the general character of
the surrounding area. There shall be provided and maintained along rear lines
and side lines of the lot a planting or other appropriate screen of at least
ten feet in depth and of a density adequate to provide visual screening from
adjacent properties. Yard requirements for a lot on which a neighborhood
shopping unit is located shall not be less than the yard requirements of the
most restrictive abutting zoning district.
      (2)   Access Ways. Any access way to any off-street parking lot or
loading berth shall be located at least ten feet from any lot line.
      (3)   Refuse Containers. All garbage or other refuse shall be in
removable, visually screened, covered containers.
(Ord. 887, § 2.11, passed - -)
§ 155.146  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Barber, beauty, bakery shops.
   (B)   Candy, ice cream, drug, food, fruit, hobby, meat, self-service, and
similar retail stores.
   (C)   Churches and similar uses.
   (D)   Service offices such as realtors, optometrists.
   (E)   Postal substations.
   (F)   Public utility collection offices.
   (G)   Physicians, dentists and similar professions.
   (H)   Retail clothing, hardware, jewel and similar uses.
   (I)   Restaurants but not drive-in kinds.
   (J)   Telephone booths.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1101, passed - -)
§ 155.147  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses that are clearly associated with and supplemental to
the principal use of the lot or tract of land.
   (B)   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided
that such storage shall be located on the same lot with the business and shall
be within a completely enclosed building.
   (C)   Telephone booths.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1102, passed - -)
§ 155.148  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Automotive service stations.
   (B)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms in the same structure occupied by a
business.
   (C)   Drive-in banking.
   (D)   Eating and drinking establishments such as taverns.
   (E)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distribution facilities.
   (F)   Governmental uses other than the municipality.
   (G)   Mineral and soil extraction development.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1103, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1339, passed 11-19-1996)
I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 155.160  GENERAL.
   The Industrial District of the municipality delineates areas where a
satisfactory correlation of factors such as adequate transportation facilities,
accessibility for employees, efficient land assembly, adequate topographical
conditions, and adequate provisions of public utilities required by light
industry may be achieved. It is intended that this particular district will
generally provide for light industry of an assembly nature from finished goods,
warehousing and wholesaling activities. Supportive services for light industry
are generally of a non-retail or personal service character and should be
encouraged to locate in this district. Open storage of equipment and supplies
should be encouraged to locate in this district.
(Ord. 887, § 2.12, passed - -)
§ 155.161  CONDITIONS OF USE.
   The permitted uses shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair, or
storage of goods, materials, or products shall take place without creating
disturbing influences to the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
   (B)   All business, production, servicing, and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Storage of
equipment and supplies in this district may be open to the sky but shall be
enclosed by a wall or fence, including gates, at least eight feet high. Off-
street loading facilities and open, off-street parking facilities for the
storage of motor vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the district, except for
such screening of parking and loading facilities as may be required.
   (C)   Railroad siding frontage. No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
   (D)   Buffer areas. Landscape development shall be required along all
streets, with the exception of approved entrances which border the proposed
development, to be planted and maintained with trees and shrubbery to serve as
a screen for the parking and storage areas. A planting screen, consisting of
suitable shrubbery and trees, shall be planted wherever the industrial use
abuts any other use district. Such screen shall consist of shrubbery and trees
at least five feet in height when planted and shall be maintained at not less
than 20 feet in height when full grown or as approved by the Administrative
Official.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1201, passed - -)
§ 155.162  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Manufacturing, processing and related activities to include the
following, provided that neither junk yards, the dismantling of vehicles or the
storage of dismantled vehicles, petroleum bulk plants, or outside storage of
flammable gases or liquids or explosives are permitted.
      (1)   Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles; brushes and
brooms.
      (2)   Carpet shops and power woodworking.
      (3)   Ceramic products such as pottery.
      (4)   Cleaning and dry cleaning plants.
      (5)   Cold storage.
      (6)   Contractors’ equipment and material storage.
      (7)   Creameries and dairies.
      (8)   Electrical appliances, such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans.
      (9)   Electrical energy production.
      (10)   Electrical equipment assembly such as radio, television and movie
equipment.
      (11)   Ice, dry and natural.
      (12)   Incinerator, landfill, transfer station, or balefill for non-
hazardous or non-toxic materials or waste as defined by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act and subject to the siting process thereunder.
      (13)   Laboratories: Medical, dental, research, experimental, and
testing.
      (14)   Machine shops for tool, die and pattern making.
      (15)   Motor freight terminals.
      (16)   Pharmaceutical products, compounding only.
      (17)   Products from finished materials of metal, plastics, fiber, fur,
glass, leather, paper, precious and semi-precious stones, or other similar
materials.
      (18)   Soldering and welding.
      (19)   Tools and hardware.
      (20)   Toys.
      (21)   Watches.
      (22)   Research and development of any commodity except explosives or
flammable liquid or gases.
      (23)   The production of fuel grade ethanol including: the fermentation
of plant matter, the distillation of ethanol and the dehydration of ethanol.
      (24)   The production of bio-diesel fuel or its by-products.
   (B)   Additional wholesale and industrial related uses permitted in this
district include:
      (1)   Places of amusement and recreation.
      (2)   Automobile and/or agricultural implement sales, repair and service
stations.
      (3)   Animal hospitals when conducted entirely within an enclosed
building.
      (4)   Boat sales and service.
      (5)   Business machines, repair service, storage and wholesale.
      (6)   Candy, wholesale distribution.
      (7)   Cement products, wholesale (pipe, blocks, and the like).
      (8)   Display, designers’ and builders’ shops.
      (9)   Express companies, warehouses.
      (10)   Feed and seed stores.
      (11)   Food products, brokers, distributors.
      (12)   Gasoline stations.
      (13)   Lumberyards.
      (14)   Machine and equipment rental and repair.
      (15)   Newspaper printing.
      (16)   Parking lots and garages.
      (17)   Restaurants.
      (18)   Storage of automobiles.
      (19)   Termite control contractor shops.
      (20)   Warehouses.
      (21)   Weighers, commercial.
      (22)   Welding, equipment and supplies, storage.
   (C)   The following shall not be permitted: Dwelling, boarding and rooming
houses, dormitories, fraternity and sorority houses, apartment hotels, mobile
homes or mobile home parks or courts, and any uses for living quarters not
specifically provided for in the portion of this section entitled “permitted
accessory uses.”
(Ord. 887, § 2.1202, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1256, passed 4-25-1995 Am. Ord. 1677,
passed 9-19-2006; Am. Ord. 1686, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 155.163  PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Dwelling units for watchmen or caretakers only.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading.
   (C)   Accessory uses clearly associated with and supplementary to the
principal use of the lot or tract of land.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1203, passed - -)
§ 155.164  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Airport or landing fields.
   (B)   Governmental uses, other than the municipality.
   (C)   Sanitary landfills and landfills.
   (D)   Manufacturing, processing or storage involving flammable or explosive
materials, liquids, or gases.
   (E)   Utilities: Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, other
public utility distributor facilities.
   (F)   Mineral and soil extraction development.
   (G)   Recycling, reclamation, or refuse center for non-hazardous or non-
toxic materials as provided in the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and
subject to the siting and/or permitting process thereunder, if any.
(Ord. 887, § 2.1204, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1256, passed 4-25-1995; Am. Ord.
1339, passed 11-19-1996)
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 155.175  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define general development regulations
that apply in all zoning districts and in other development areas where
applicable. These regulations apply to all development within the appropriate
jurisdiction of the municipality.
(Ord. 887, § 3.1, passed - -)
§ 155.176  ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   All Residential and Neighborhood Business Districts.
      (1)   Any attached accessory building or structure shall be considered as
a part of the principal building.
      (2)   The maximum height of any accessory buildings shall be 25 feet.
      (3)   An accessory structure shall be:
         (a)   A minimum distance of ten feet from the principal building.
         (b)   A minimum distance of 25 feet from a side lot line that is
adjacent to a street.
         (c)   A minimum distance of five feet from the side lot line and five
feet from the rear lot line except and when division (A)(4) below of this
section requires a greater distance.
         (d)   A minimum distance of 60 feet from the front lot line.
      (4)   Fences and accessory structures shall be set back a minimum
distance of 12 feet from the centerline of an alley.
   (B)   Industrial Districts and All Business Districts Except Neighborhood
Business.
      (1)   The maximum height of any accessory building shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   An accessory structure shall be:
         (a)   A minimum distance of 12 feet from the principal building.
         (b)   A minimum distance of 25 feet from a side lot line adjacent to a
street except in Business Districts where none is required.
         (c)   A minimum distance of 20 feet from the rear lot line except when
a buffer or planting screen is required additional footage shall be required to
allow at least a 12-foot lane for rear access.
(Ord. 887, §§ 3.2, 3.201, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 155.177  ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   No accessory building shall be used for residential purposes except as
otherwise provided in this code.
(Ord. 887, § 3.3, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.178  BULK OF BUILDING.
   All buildings and structures shall conform to the building regulations
established herein for the district in which each building shall be located,
except that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire
towers, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be permitted to
exceed the maximum bulk provisions when erected in accordance with all other
ordinances of the municipality.
(Ord. 887, § 3.4, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.179  EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY BUILDING.
   No temporary structure (including trailers or mobile homes) shall be used or
occupied for any residential, commercial or industrial use except as
specifically permitted or required by this code. However, the Zoning Board of
Appeals may, upon application therefor, permit the use of such temporary
structure for a period not to exceed one year, subject to such conditions as
the Zoning Board of Appeals deems to be compatible with the character of the
area in which the structure is located and in compliance with reasonable
consideration of the general health, safety and welfare. Such occupancy shall
be contingent on an emergency resulting from fire, explosion or disaster, or in
conjunction with construction, demolition or related conditions.
(Ord. 887, § 3.5, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.180  MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS; EXCEPTION.
   The height limitations of this code shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, penthouses or domes not used for human occupancy, nor to
chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water tanks, silos, parapet walls, cornices
without windows, antennas or necessary mechanical appurtenances usually carried
above the roof level.
(Ord. 887, § 3.6, passed - -)
§ 155.181  BUILDINGS PER LOT; YARDS.
   No part of an area, frontage, or yard required for any lot, building, or use
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this code shall be included
as an area, frontage or yard for another lot, building or use. Except as
otherwise specifically provided in this code only one principal building shall
be permitted on a lot.
(Ord. 887, § 3.7, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.182  USE AND BULK OF BUILDING.
   No building, structure, or premises shall be used or occupied and no
buildings or parts thereof or other structures shall be constructed, erected,
raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered and no
building shall be occupied by more families and/or persons than prescribed for
such building, structure or premise for the district in which it is located and
as otherwise regulated herein, except in conformity with this code.
(Ord. 887, § 3.8, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.183  INFRINGEMENT ON GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY.
   No use shall infringe on governmental property or on any public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 887, § 3.9, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.184  CORNER AND THROUGH LOTS.
   For any through lot both frontages shall comply with the front yard
requirement of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 887, § 3.10, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.185  CONTIGUOUS PARCELS; LOTS.
   When two or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area and/or
minimum dimensions to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the
district in which they are located, are contiguous, and are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use.
(Ord. 887, § 3.11, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.186  DIVISION OF LOTS.
   No zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into two or more zoning lots unless
all zoning lots resulting from each such division shall conform with all the
applicable regulations of the zoning district in which the property is located.
(Ord. 887, § 3.12, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.187  FRONTAGE LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any lot in any district shall have minimum frontage abutting a public
street, the width of which shall be at least 30 feet. The only exception to
this requirement may be in a Planned Unit Development.
(Ord. 887, § 3.13, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.188  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A nonconforming use is a use of land or buildings within the
municipality that does not conform (does not meet the regulations of this code
in some way). A nonconforming use may often have a detrimental effect on the
land use around it, such as increased traffic on residential streets, not
enough parking space, the emission of noxious fumes, the creation of loud
noises or a depressing effect on property values.
   (B)   These regulations are intended to minimize the existing and/or
potential problems created by nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Continuation of a nonconforming use. 
         (a)   Any lawful building, structure, or use existing at the time of
the enactment of this code may be continued even though such building,
structure, or use does not conform to the provisions of this code for the
district in which it is located and whenever a district shall be changed
hereafter the then existing lawful use may be continued, subject to the
provisions of this code.
         (b)   Any legal nonconforming building or structure may be continued
in use provided there is no structural change other than normal maintenance and
repairs, except as otherwise permitted herein.
      (2)   Change or extension of nonconforming use.
         (a)   A nonconforming use shall not be extended but the extension of a
conforming use to any portion of a nonconforming building shall not be deemed
the extension of such nonconforming use.
         (b)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to a use of the same or
greater nonconformity with the district regulations of the district in which it
is located and when changed to a use of a greater conformity shall not
thereafter be changed to a use of lesser conformity; however, in the I-
1 Industrial District a nonconforming use shall not be changed to a
nonconforming residential use.
         (c)   A nonconforming use shall not be altered, extended or restored
so as to displace any conforming use.
      (3)   Abandonment or discontinuance.
         (a)   When any nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of
12 consecutive months such use shall not thereafter be resumed and any future
use of the premises shall be in conformity with the provisions of this code,
provided that, such nonconforming use may be resumed when the owner during the
period of discontinuance, has been actively attempting to continue such
nonconforming use.
         (b)   Proof of fact in writing must be furnished to the Board of
Appeals by the applicant to establish intent not to abandon.
      (4)   Repairs, maintenance and alteration.
         (a)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance of a nonconforming building
shall not be deemed an extension of such nonconforming building and shall be
permitted.
         (b)   No structural alteration shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use except in the following situations:
            1.   When the alteration is required by law.
            2.   When the alteration will actually result in elimination of the
nonconforming use.
            3.   When a building in a residence district containing residential
nonconforming uses may be altered in a way to improve livability, provided no
structural alteration shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling
units or the bulk of the building.
      (5)   Restoration.  If a building, excluding single-family dwellings, or
other structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed by any
means to the extent of 50% or more of its value at the time, the building or
other structure can be rebuilt or used thereafter only for a conforming use and
in compliance with the provisions of the district in which it is located. In
the event the damage or destruction is less than 50% of its value, based upon
the prevailing costs, the building may then be restored to its original
condition and the occupancy or use of such building may be continued which
existed at the time of such partial destruction.
         (a)   In the event that the Administrative Official’s estimate of the
extent of damage or fair market value is not acceptable to the applicant for
the building permit to repair or reconstruct such building or structure, the
applicant may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (b)   In any event, restoration or repair of the building or other
structure must be started within a period of six months from the date of damage
or destruction and diligently prosecuted to completion.
         (c)   The Administrative Official may issue, or cause to be issued, a
building permit if the subject matter thereof is otherwise permitted by the
provisions of this subchapter, provided that the Administrative Official may
impose such conditions and requirements to the issuance of the permit as are
reasonably necessary to promote compatibility of the nonconforming use or
building with its immediate neighborhood and to protect adjacent property from
any adverse effects of the nonconforming use.
      (6)   Conversion to special use.  A nonconforming use may be made a
special use by granting a special use permit in conformity with the provisions
of this code.
(Ord. 887, §§ 3.14 - 3.20, passed - -)
§ 155.189  GENERAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any lot shall be properly graded for drainage and maintained in good
condition, free from trash and debris.
   (B)   Noise emanating from any use shall not be of such volume or frequency
as to be unreasonably offensive at or beyond the property line. Unreasonably
offensive noises due to intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness shall be
muffled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (C)   No obnoxious, toxic or corrosive matter, smoke, fumes or gases shall
be discharged into the air or across the boundaries of any lot in such
concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare or to cause injury or damage to property or business.
(Ord. 887, § 3.21, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.190  PERMITTED USES.
   When a use or accessory is not specifically listed in the sections devoted
to “permitted uses” it shall be assumed that such uses are expressly prohibited
unless by a written decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals it is determined
that the use is similar to and is compatible with the uses listed in the
appropriate zone district. Such a written decision shall become a permanent
public record for subsequent administrative use and shall be considered as
being a permitted use or accessory use in the same manner as if such use had
been specifically included in the zone district.
(Ord. 887, § 3.22, passed - -)
§ 155.191  INDIVIDUAL SEWER SYSTEMS.
   In any zone district where individual sewage systems are used in place of
central or public sewage facilities, the minimum lot area, width and depth
shall be determined by the soils in that zoning district but shall not be less
than the requirements for that zone district. The Administrative Official shall
require the property owner to obtain a signed, written opinion from a qualified
soils scientist or related professional determining if larger lots are
necessary for the proper functioning of the individual sewage disposal system
to prevent the possibility of health hazards. If lots larger than those
required by the zone district are indicated as necessary, the Administrative
Official shall require such larger lots.
(Ord. 887, § 3.23, passed - -)
§ 155.192  YARDS; EXCEPTIONS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Exceptions, minimum requirement. Subject to the requirements that
there be a minimum distance of six feet between any point of a roof or eaves on
a principal building and any point on any principal building on an adjacent lot
the following exceptions shall apply:
      (1)   Cornices, chimneys, planters, or other similar architectural
features may extend two feet into a required yard.
      (2)   Open, unenclosed, uncovered porches at ground level may extend into
a required yard not more than six feet.
      (3)   Fire escapes may extend into a required yard not more than four
feet.
      (4)   Patios extending into required rear yards may be covered by a roof,
but shall not be enclosed by walls.
      (5)   Canopies, eaves, balconies, roof overhangs or other similar
features not included in the foregoing parts of this section may extend into a
required yard not more than four feet.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, in all “R” Districts,
where lots comprising 50% or more of the frontage on one side of a street
between intersection streets are developed with buildings having an average
front yard with a variation of not more than ten feet, the average front yard
of such buildings shall be the minimum required, provided such an average
requirement is not less than 20 feet or more than 35 feet.
   (B)   Existing building requirements. No yards now or hereafter provided for
a building existing on the effective date of this code shall subsequently be
reduced below, or further reduced below if already less than, the minimum yard
requirements of this code for equivalent new construction except as otherwise
specifically provided for herein.
   (C)   Location, required open space. All yards, courts, and other open
spaces allocated to a building or dwelling group shall be located on the same
zoning lot as such building or dwelling group unless otherwise specifically
provided for herein.
   (D)   Maintenance, courts and other open spaces. The maintenance of yards,
courts, and other open space and minimum lot area legally required for a
building shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of such building or of
the owner of the property on which it is located if the building is vacant.
Furthermore, no legally required yards, courts, or other open space or minimum
lot area allocated to any building shall, by virtue of change of ownership or
for any other reason, be used to satisfy yard, court, other open space, or
minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
(Ord. 887, §§ 3.24 through 3.27, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.193  NONAGRICULTURAL FENCES, WALLS, BUFFER STRIPS, AND SIMILAR
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose.  This section shall regulate all fences, walls, buffer
strips, and similar structures unless otherwise provided in some other division
of this section, including fences, walls, buffer strips, and similar structures
in all uses and districts.
   (B)   Definition.  For purposes of this section the term FENCES shall
include walls, buffer strips, and similar structures consisting of an
artificially constructed barrier intended to provide privacy or limit access to
a zoning lot or portion of a zoning lot.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Fences shall be located within the side or rear yard areas of each
zoning lot and, except as hereinafter provided, shall not be located in the
front yard of any zoning lot.
      (2)   Fences may be installed on zoning lot lines where it is constructed
on a joint or shared basis with the adjoining zoning lot owner or with the
consent of the adjoining owner so as to create a common or shared fence for
both lots. In such circumstances, it shall be the responsibility of the
installing owner to provide written confirmation of the consent of the
adjoining owner for installation of the fence on the property line.
      (3)   In single-family residential uses, fences shall not be installed in
the front yard of zoning lots located in R-1, R-2, R-3, or R-4 zoning
districts.  Fences, walls and similar structures of a purely ornamental nature
utilized for landscaping effect may be installed in the front yard in the
zoning lots of such districts, however, they may not exceed 42 inches in
height. Upon application to the Building Inspector and Zoning Board, subject to
review and approval, nonornamental fences, walls, and similar structures may be
installed in the front yards of the foregoing single-family residential zoning
districts and applications, but only if same are compatible with the adjoining
property and its use.
      (4)   In multi-family and nonresidential zoning districts, fences may be
installed in front yards only with the approval of the Building Inspector upon
application.
   (D)   Fence height.
      (1)   In residential rear and side yards, the maximum height of any fence
shall be six feet.  Where allowed, a fence located in a residential district in
the front yard shall not exceed 42 inches in height.  In nonresidential
applications, fence height shall not be applicable to fencing which is part of
a backstop, tennis court, or recreational application, however, the
installation of such structures in residential districts shall require approval
of the Building Inspector, subject to review by the Zoning Board.
      (2)   Fence height limitations are not applicable to fences built in
conjunction with public utility substation facilities; municipal facilities;
water or sewage treatment plant facilities; however, fences installed in such
applications in residential districts may be required by the Building
Inspector, subject to review by the Zoning Board, to install appropriate
screening in connection with such fence installations.
      (3)   Fence height shall be measured at the highest point, not including
columns or posts, of fence nearest the abutting property or street location.
Columns or posts shall not extend more than 18 inches above the built height of
the fence. Columns or posts shall be separated by a horizontal distance of at
least four feet, except at gates. Any retaining wall or berm below the fence
shall be considered as part of the overall height of the fence.
   (E)   Temporary fencing.  Temporary fences may be installed around
construction sites and works and erected or maintained as may be required by
any applicable building code, statute, or regulation.
   (F)   Permitted fence types.  The following fence types are permitted in all
zoning districts: masonry or stone walls; ornamental iron; wood; vinyl; chain
link or woven; or other material, approved by the Building Inspector, upon
application and subject to review by the Zoning Board.
   (G)   Prohibited fence types.
      (1)   Fences constructed primarily of barbed or razor wire.
      (2)   Fences carrying an electrical current.
      (3)   Fences constructed of any readily flammable material such as paper,
cloth, or canvas.
      (4)   Fences topped with barbed wire, metal spikes, concertina wire, or
similar material in any residential district, except fencing installed in a
permitted nonresidential application within such area such as a public
institution or public utility facility and which is installed for public safety
or security purposes.
      (5)   Fences constructed of concertina wire or comparable material.
      (6)   Snow fences, chicken wire, livestock, and farm style fences.
   (H)   Construction and maintenance standards.
      (1)   All fence posts and supporting fence members shall be erected so
that following construction they will face to the interior of the premises
served by the fence.
      (2)   All chain link fencing shall be installed knuckle side up. The use
of spikes, broken glass or sharp or pointed instruments or materials intended
or likely to cause injury to any person coming into contact with same is
prohibited.
      (3)   All fences, walls, and similar structures shall be maintained in a
good state of repair and kept clear of weeds, tall grass, trees, etc., on a
continuous basis in a safe manner plum (vertical) to the ground. Fences which
are not maintained in a safe manner as a result of neglect, lack of repair,
manner of construction, method of placement, or otherwise, shall be repaired,
replaced, or demolished.
      (4)   Multiple fence installations along the same lot line shall be
installed so that the outermost fence will screen any other fence installed
along the same lot line or yard.
   (I)   Other fence requirements.
      (1)   No fence shall be placed or retained in manner which obstructs
vision at any intersection of public or private streets or ways.
      (2)   No fence shall block access from doors or windows. Fences shall be
located at least two feet from building walls, or structures except where
fences project from building wall or the structure.
      (3)   Fence construction shall not alter or impede the natural flow of
water in any stream, creek, drainage swell, or ditch, or impair in any manner
the movement of water across the zoning lot.
   (J)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation in violation of this section shall
be fined no less than $50 and no more than $750 for each violation.
      (2)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs, exists or continues.
(Ord. 1674, passed 8-15-2006)
SUPPLEMENTARY LAND USE AND AREA BULK REGULATIONS
§ 155.205  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to define regulations and standards that
apply to the area, bulk and use of specific land uses. These regulations apply
in all zoning districts.
(Ord. 887, § 4.1, passed - -)
§ 155.206  CHURCHES AND PLACES OF FORMAL WORSHIP.
   Each principal building shall be located at least 25 feet from all property
lines or shall meet the zoning district yard and setback requirements,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. 887, § 4.2, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.207  DRIVE-IN THEATERS.
   In any district where drive-in theaters are permitted, the establishment of
such theaters shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Projection screens and parking areas shall not be closer than 150 feet
from any street centerline and not closer than 200 feet from any Residential
District boundary.
   (B)   The projection surface of motion picture screens shall not be visible
from any major traffic street.
   (C)   Loudspeakers shall be limited to the individual type which are
designed to be heard by the occupants of one car only.
   (D)   Entrances and exits shall connect only to major arterial or collector
streets and shall be designed so as not to unduly interfere with or
unnecessarily impede traffic flow.
   (E)   Fences and/or appropriate plant screening as approved by the
Administrative Official shall enclose the drive-in theater.
   (F)   All aisles and parking areas shall utilize at a minimum a dust
pallative of the A-2 surface variety, or its equivalent.
(Ord. 887, § 4.3, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.208  FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walls or hedges used for any purpose shall in all districts conform
to the following:
   (A)   For the purpose of minimizing traffic hazards at street intersections
by improving visibility for converging vehicles:
      (1)   Visual obstructions higher than two feet above the adjacent top of
the curb or street elevation, whichever is higher, shall not be permitted to be
planted, placed, maintained, or erected;
      (2)   Fencing shall permit direct vision through at least 90% of any one
square foot segment of vertical surface area.
   (B)   No barbed wire or other such sharp pointed fence below six feet in
height and no electrically charged fence shall be erected or maintained except
in agricultural districts.
   (C)   No permanent fence, retaining wall, or obstruction shall be
constructed or erected within any public street or alley right-of-way unless
authorized by the Administrative Official. Fences erected on public easement or
across ditches shall be so constructed that drainage shall not be obstructed
and in the event of necessity for removal of such fence for maintenance or
other purposes removal and/or replacement of such fence or other improvement
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the fence or retaining wall.
(Ord. 887, § 4.4, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989)
§ 155.209  REPAIR GARAGES.
   In repair garages all repair work, servicing, and storage of parts and
equipment concerning vehicles, boats, auto body, radiator and appliance repair
and similar uses shall be done completely within an enclosed building or shall
be enclosed by a solid fence at least eight feet in height or a planting screen
of at least ten feet in depth and eight feet in height, or as approved by the
Administrative Official.
(Ord. 887, § 4.5, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.210  GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
   In districts where gasoline service stations are permitted the establishment
of such uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   All gasoline pumps, lubrication or similar devices and other service
facilities shall be located at least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line
or side or rear lot line.
   (B)   No access drive shall be within 200 feet of a fire station, school,
public library, church, park or playground.
   (C)   All devices for dispensing or selling of milk, ice, cold drinks, and
the like shall be located within the principal building.
   (D)   Whenever a gasoline service station has been abandoned all underground
storage tanks shall either be removed or filled with some acceptable material
approved by the Administrative Official. A gasoline service station shall be
considered abandoned when the owner, tenant or lessor has not sought to
continue the use for a period exceeding 12 months.
   (E)   All waste and trash receptacles shall be in a visually screened
enclosed area except for minor receptacles at the gasoline pumps.
(Ord. 887, § 4.6, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.211  URBAN HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Urban home occupations shall be considered special uses and the
establishment and continuance of an urban home occupation shall be subject to
the following requirements:
   (A)   Such use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on
by not more than two individuals, one of whom is the principal occupant.
   (B)   Such use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not change the residential character
thereof.
   (C)   The total area used for such purposes shall not exceed the equivalent
of one-fourth the floor area, in square feet, of the first floor of the user’s
dwelling unit, if any, otherwise of the main floor of such dwelling unit; but
in any instance a maximum of 300 square feet shall be allowed.
   (D)   There shall be no advertising, display or other indications of a home
occupation on the premises except as provided in
§§ 155.310 through
155.324.
   (E)   There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling
stocks of merchandise, supplies, or products, provided that incidental retail
sales may be made in connection with other permitted home occupations.
   (F)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material used in
the home occupation nor of any highly explosive or combustible material.
   (G)   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat
or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
   (H)   A home occupation, including studies or rooms for instruction, shall
provide an additional off- street parking area adequate to accommodate needs
created by the home occupation of not less than two parking spaces plus the
parking spaces required for the dwelling unit. Such parking shall be provided
on the same lot as the home occupation.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, provided all requirements contained
herein are met, the following shall be considered home occupations:
      (1)   Professional and service offices;
      (2)   Art and photo studio;
      (3)   Dressmaking or millinery;
      (4)   Teaching, with musical instruction limited to two pupils at a time;
      (5)   The keeping of not more than three roomers or boarders;
      (6)   Beauty and barber shops.
   (J)   A home occupation shall not include the following: clinic, hospital,
mortuary, funeral home, nursing home, tea room, tourist home, antique shop,
animal hospital, restaurant, veterinarian’s office, or use similar to any of
the foregoing excluded uses.
(Ord. 887, § 4.7, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.212  JUNK YARDS.
   In any district where junk yards are permitted, the establishment and/or
maintenance of such uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   All storage of parts and equipment and the dismantling of vehicles
shall be done within a completely enclosed building or within an area enclosed
by a solid fence not less than ten feet in height, or a planting screen 20 feet
in depth and expected to attain a height of at least 20 feet.
   (B)   Any junk yard shall be located not less than 500 feet from any
residential district boundary.
(Ord. 887, § 4.8, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.213  LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, parking areas, swimming pools,
or for any other purpose shall be arranged in such a manner as to direct the
light away from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of
passing motorists.
(Ord. 887, § 4.9, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.214  MOBILE HOMES; PARKING FOR INSPECTION AND SALES.
   A mobile home may be parked for inspection and sale on any automobile or
trailer sales lot but mobile homes shall not be parked for inspection and sales
to the general public within any mobile home park.
(Ord. 887, § 4.10, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.215  PLANT NURSERIES AND GREENHOUSES.
   In any district where tree and plant nurseries and greenhouses are permitted
the establishment of such uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   No fertilizer, compost, manure or other odor or dust producing
substance shall be stored within 50 feet of any property line.
   (B)   Greenhouse heating plants shall be in an enclosed building and shall
not be less than 50 feet from any property line.
(Ord. 887, § 4.11, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.216  PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In any zone district where publicly owned office or governmental buildings,
other than the municipality’s, are permitted there shall be no permanent
storage of heavy construction or maintenance equipment (such as excavating,
road building, or hauling equipment) unless in an enclosed building or enclosed
within a live planting screen and fenced as approved by the Administrative
Official. Such storage areas, maintenance yards or storage warehouses shall be
located at least 15 feet from any property line.
(Ord. 887, § 4.12, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.217  PUBLIC UTILITY STATIONS, EXCHANGES AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
    Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, telephone exchange
facilities, sewage treatment plants, water storage facilities or similar
facilities in any residential zone district shall meet all following
requirements and in other zone districts shall meet all requirements except
(A), (E) and may be required to meet (G). A special use permit shall be
required.
   (A)   No public office, or principal repair or storage facilities shall be
maintained in connection with such substations or exchanges.
   (B)   The building housing any such facility shall be designed and
constructed to conform to the general character of the neighborhood.
   (C)   The area on which the facility is located shall be landscaped and a
landscaping plan shall be submitted.
   (D)   Where all facilities and equipment are entirely within a completely
enclosed building, the minimum lot shall be as follows: lot width shall not be
less than the total width of the building plus the total of the minimum
required side yards; lot depth shall not be less than the depth of the building
plus the minimum required front yard plus the five foot minimum rear yard.
   (E)   Where facilities or equipment are located outside the completely
enclosed building, no such facilities or equipment shall be located closer than
15 feet to any side or rear lot line.
   (F)   If transformers are exposed, there shall be provided an enclosing
fence or wall at least six feet in height.
   (G)   All parcels or lots on which substations, exchanges, equipment or
transformers are located shall meet the following minimum landscaping
standards: a planting screen of at least ten feet in depth and expected to
reach a height of at least ten feet shall be provided and maintained.
(Ord. 887, § 4.13, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.218  PRIVATE AND PAROCHIAL SCHOOLS.
   In any district where private and/or parochial schools are permitted, the
following additional requirements shall be met:
   (A)   The site shall have a minimum of three acres and one additional acre
for each 150 pupils in excess of 200.
   (B)   Each principal building shall be located at least 25 feet from all
property lines.
(Ord. 887, § 4.14, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.219  SWIMMING POOLS.
   A public or private swimming pool in any zone district shall not be located
in any required front yard, nor less than ten feet to a side lot line adjacent
to a street. All swimming pools, spas, hot tubs, or other enclosures which
contain 18 inches or more of water in depth at any point, shall have an
adequate enclosure either surrounding the property or pool area, sufficient to
make such body of water inaccessible to small children. Such enclosure,
including gates therein, shall not be less than four feet above the underlying
ground. All gates shall be self-latching with latches placed four feet above
the underlying ground and otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to small
children.
(Ord. 887, § 4.15, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1154, passed 9-5-1989) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.220  CAMPING TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   The parking of not more than one unoccupied camping trailer, utility trailer
or recreational vehicle in the side or rear yard or in a completely enclosed
garage only is hereby permitted, provided that no living quarters or businesses
shall be maintained in any such camp trailer and/or utility trailer, and
provided further that the parking of camp trailer and/or utility trailer shall
comply with the yard requirements for accessory buildings of the zone district
in which it is located.
(Ord. 887, § 4.16, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.221  MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be located in and only in mobile home parks. A
mobile home park shall be located only in a permitted zoning district and shall
require a special use permit.
   (B)   The following conditions of use shall apply:
      (1)   A mobile home park shall be located on a tract of land not less
than ten acres in area, with minimum width and depth dimensions of 400 feet.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed as prohibiting
the sale of a mobile home located on a mobile home space in a mobile home park
and connected to the pertinent utilities, provided that any mobile home in a
mobile home park shall not be sold with the lot upon which the mobile home is
placed unless the lot is at least 5,000 square feet minimum, or the zoning lot
is a part of a planned unit development with common lands, and that the rights
to the enjoyment of common lands is transferred to the person purchasing the
lot.
      (3)   All mobile home parks shall be provided with a planting screen of
at least 20 feet in depth and height along the property boundary line
separating the development and any adjacent zoning district or as approved by
the Administrative Official.
      (4)   Streets and other access ways within mobile home parks shall be
private streets and access ways, except in unusual circumstances. All mobile
home parks shall have safe and convenient access to public streets. Such access
way or street shall meet the construction and design standards of the
subdivision regulations, or as approved by the City Engineer.
      (5)   No parking shall be permitted on the entrance street of the mobile
home park for a distance of 100 feet from its point of beginning.
      (6)   Each mobile home space in a mobile home park shall be located
within 200 feet of a drive or access way of not less than 20 feet in width
which provides access to entrance and exit streets. All streets, drives and
access ways shall be bounded by curbs and gutters.
      (7)   All mobile home parks shall be provided with safe, convenient, all-
season pedestrian access. Sidewalks shall meet the requirements of the
municipality.
      (8)   (a)   All mobile homes shall meet the tie-down anchorage
requirements of the following table (see also
Appendix D).
 
10- and 12-foot Wide Mobile Homes                   12 and 14-foot Wide Mobile
                                                    Homes
30 to 50 ft. long         50 to 60 ft. long         60 to 70 ft. long
No. of frame No. of over- No. of frame No. of over  No. of frame No. of over
ties (pairs) the-top ties ties (pairs) the-top ties ties (pairs) the-top ties
4            3            5            3            5            3
 
         (b)   Tie-down components used, including anchor systems, must be able
to withstand at least 4,800 pounds without failure. The holding power of ground
anchors can be determined by conducting pullout tests or by consulting with an
anchor dealer. An anchor dealer should be able to provide data on anchor
holding power for various kinds of soils.
(Ord. 887, § 4.17, passed - -; Am. Ord. 969, passed 11-25-1980) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.222  LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Required parking spaces shall not be reduced.
   (B)   Front building setback requirements shall be met.
   (C)   Buildings may not be closer than 15 feet to any side or rear lot line
bordering the development.
   (D)   Height limitations for structures may be modified by the Plan
Commission but if any residential structure exceeds 30 feet it shall be set
back from all property lines at least one additional foot for each foot of
building height above 30 feet.
(Ord. 887, § 4.20, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.223  SCHOOL-PARK DEDICATIONS.
   A developer may include land designated for dedication for public school or
public park use, which land may be considered part of the gross acreage of the
development in computing the maximum number of lots that may be created or
dwelling units that may be authorized provided that:
   (A)   When parks and schools are to be combined, dedications should be based
on the following:
 
                                                                           Minimum
Type of Facility                                                           Area in
                                                                           Acres
                                                                           3 acres
1.  Elementary School                                                     plus 1
                                                                           acre per
                                                                           100 pupils
                                                                           10 acres
                                                                           plus 2
2.  Junior High School                                                    acres per
                                                                           100
                                                                           pupils*
                                                                           20 acres
                                                                           plus 2
3.  Senior High School                                                    acres per
                                                                           100
                                                                           pupils*
4.  Neighborhood Park and Playground when combined with elementary school 2 acres
ground meeting above standard                                              per 1,000
                                                                           population
* Exclusive of athletic fields for inter-school competition
 
   (B)   If not combined, no tract of less than five acres should be dedicated
for public school use, or five acres for public park use; however, a tract of
land, less than this minimum, may be accepted for dedication for public school
or public park use, if it is an addition to an existing or proposed park or
school site respectively, or is recommended for approval by the Administrative
Officer;
   (C)   The proposed site is dedicated to public school or public park use in
a manner approved by the Municipal Attorney as to legal form prior to recording
of the subdivision plat;
   (D)   The School District accepts the proposed public school dedication and
furnishes notification in writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals prior to the
recording of the subdivision plat;
   (E)   Prior to the recording of the subdivision plat, a written agreement
between the petitioner and the School District shall be submitted to the Zoning
Board of Appeals for review and approval, which agreement shall indicate who is
responsible for the installation of required improvements and indicate when the
improvements will be installed;
   (F)   The Administrative Official recommends the proposed public park
dedication, in writing, to the Zoning Board of Appeals, prior to the recording
of the subdivision plat;
   (G)   The subdivision plat for record identifies the boundaries of the
dedicated tract(s) within the P.U.D.;
   (H)   The deed of dedication for public park or public school use shall
provide that in the event the property shall no longer be used for the purpose
it will revert to the trustees of the subdivision in which it is located as
common land. The trust indenture required shall provide for the manner in which
the common land shall be controlled and maintained.
(Ord. 887, § 4.21, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.224  COMMON LAND AREAS.
   (A)   Common land, all developments. Common land is that land within a
planned unit development that is held in common ownership by all of the
property owners. It is obtained by allowing the developer to reduce lot sizes
producing land contiguous to the development which creates larger recreational
areas for the property owners of the development than could be obtained
otherwise. This common land shall be located so that it is reasonably
accessible to all the lots contributing to its area. Structures may be
permitted on common land only if for common use and if included in the trust
indenture regulating and controlling the common land.
   (B)   Conveyance of common areas. All open space, tree cover, recreational
area, scenic vista, or other authorized land use, the acreage of which is
utilized to determine the common land as herein provided, shall be conveyed by
the developer in fee simple absolute title by a warranty deed to trustees
approved by the majority of property owners. The trustees shall make provision
by trust indenture for the sole benefit, use, and enjoyment of the lot owners,
present and future, of each planned unit development authorized under the
planned unit development procedure, for a period of at least 20 years, or for
the duration of the development, whichever period of time is least. Thereafter,
fee simple absolute title shall vest in the then owners as tenants in common.
The rights of the tenants in common shall only be exercisable appurtenant to
and in conjunction with their lot ownership. Any conveyance or change of
ownership of any lot shall convey with it ownership in the common property. No
lot owner has the right to convey his or her interest in the common property,
except as an incident of the ownership of a regularly platted lot. The sale of
any lot shall carry with it all the incidents of ownership of the common
property, although such is not expressly mentioned in the deed; provided,
however, that no right or power conferred upon the trustees shall be abrogated.
Warranty deeds and trust indentures complying with the aforementioned
provisions shall have attached thereto a written legal opinion prepared and
signed by an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois,
setting forth the attorney’s legal opinion as to the legal form and effect of
the deeds and trust indentures. The deeds and indentures shall be approved by
the Zoning Board of Appeals, approved by the Municipal Attorney as to legal
form, and filed with the Recorder of Deeds of Madison or St. Clair County,
simultaneously with the recording of the final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 887, §§ 4.30, 4.31, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.235  GENERAL.
   The purpose of a planned unit development is to provide alternate zoning
procedures in the various zone districts to achieve:
   (A)   More attractive site layout;
   (B)   Economies in construction and in providing public improvements;
   (C)   Larger recreational areas;
   (D)   Varying densities and building types;
   (E)   Preserving the natural beauty of the municipality.
(Ord. 887, § 4.18, passed - -)
§ 155.236  SINGLE-FAMILY PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide alternate zoning procedures
for the Single-Family Residential Districts. A planned unit development enables
a tract of land under single ownership or unified control to be developed at
various densities provided that total development density is not greater than
the maximum dwelling district. This can provide for more efficient use of open
space, tree cover, recreation areas and scenic vistas.
   (B)   Under this section, lots may be reduced in area below the minimum lot
size required by the residential district in which the development is located,
provided that the average lot size of the total lots plus the total common area
created in the development is not below the minimum lot size required by the
applicable district.
   (C)   The land utilized by public utilities, such as easements for major
facilities, such as electrical transmission lines, sewer lines, and water
mains, where such land is not available to the owner for development because of
such elements, shall not be considered as part of the gross acreage in
computing the maximum number of lots that may be created under the procedure
hereinafter described.
   (D)   The maximum number of lots that may be approved shall be computed by
subtracting, from the total gross acreage available for subdivision under this
planned unit development procedure the actual amount of street right-of-way
required and that land in (C) which is not available, and by dividing the
remaining area by the minimum lot area requirements of the existing residential
district or districts in which the development is to be located.
   (E)   Private recreation facilities are limited to the use of the owners or
occupants of the development, including golf courses, swimming pools, parkways,
ornamental areas, extensive tree cover and lowland along streams.
   (F)   The minimum size parcel of land required for this P.U.D. shall be two
acres.
   (G)   This P.U.D. shall be permitted in the “R-I” and “R-2” Zone District.
(Ord. 887, § 4.19, passed - -)
§ 155.237  COMBINED SINGLE-/MULTIPLE-FAMILY PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   All requirements for this P.U.D. are exactly the same as §
155.236 with the exceptions that:
   (A)   Minimum tract size shall be ten acres;
   (B)   This P.U.D. is allowed in all Single- and Multiple-Family Districts;
   (C)   This P.U.D. can include a maximum of 25% of the total number of
dwelling units as multiple- family dwelling units;
   (D)   There may be more than one apartment building on a lot.
(Ord. 887, § 4.22, passed - -)
§ 155.238  MULTIPLE USE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   The owner or persons having unified control of any tract of land in any
district or districts zoned for single or multiple-family uses comprising an
area of not less than 40 acres may submit to the Administrative Official a plan
for the use and development of all such tract of land for multiple-use
purposes.
(Ord. 887, § 4.23, passed - -)
§ 155.239  PERMITTED USES.
   Residential and other land uses that are permitted in this P.U.D. includes
one, two and multiple- family residences; row houses not to exceed eight in a
single row and necessary convenience commercial shops for the development only,
such as small laundromat, convenience food store, barber shop, beauty shop and
dry cleaning shop. These and any additional uses may be permitted only when not
currently accessible to development residents. All other requirements of §
155.236 apply.
(Ord. 887, § 4.24, passed - -)
§ 155.240  MULTIPLE DWELLING/PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The owner or persons having unified control of any tract of land zoned
Multiple-Family Dwelling District may submit to the Administrative Officer a
plan for the use and development of all of the tract of land for multiple
dwelling purposes only. The minimum number of dwelling units eligible for this
P.U.D. is eight units.
   (B)   If the P.U.D. is to contain 40 or more units, service establishments
may be permitted which principally serve the residents of the development, such
as a small laundromat, convenience food store, barber shop, beauty shop, dry
cleaning shop and hobby shop. These and any similar business uses may not be
permitted only when not currently accessible to development residents.
   (C)   There may be more than one main building on a lot and for the purpose
of determining yard requirements the yard requirements shall be applied to the
lot as a whole, the front thereof being the side
having the greatest frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved place
and each building upon the lot shall not be required to separately meet the
side and rear yard requirements; however, development perimeter setbacks shall
be met.
   (D)   All other requirements and conditions of §
155.236 apply.
(Ord. 887, § 4.25, passed - -)
§ 155.241  BUSINESS/PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The purpose of this section is to provide permissive, voluntary, and
alternative zoning procedures in all Business Districts to permit the
flexibility of uses and design beyond that permitted in the particular
districts, under conditions of approved site, architecture, and development
plans. The owner or persons having unified control of a tract of land in any
district zoned for business uses comprising an area of not less than two acres
may submit to the Administrative Officer a plan for the use and development of
all such tract of land for any use or combination of uses permitted per lot
provided the parking requirements of §§
155.255 and
155.265 through
155.281 are met.
(Ord. 887, § 4.26, passed - -)
§ 155.242  INDUSTRIAL/BUSINESS PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The purpose of this section is to provide permissive, voluntary, and
alternative zoning procedures in all industrial districts to permit the
flexibility of uses and design beyond that permitted in the particular
districts under conditions of approved site, architecture, and development
plans. The owner or persons having unified control of a tract of land in any
district zoned for industrial purposes may submit to the Administrative Officer
a plan for the use and development of all such tract of land for industrial
uses or for any industrial/business use combination. More than one building may
be permitted per lot provided the parking requirements of §§
155.255 and
155.265 through
155.281 are met.
(Ord. 887, § 4.27, passed - -)
§ 155.243  APPLICATION.
   The owner or persons having unified control of a tract of land who wish to
make application for a planned unit development shall follow the procedures of
§§
155.335 and
155.336 established for special use permits and shall comply with the
requirements herein.
(Ord. 887, § 4.28, passed - -)
§ 155.244  CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The development plan shall not be approved except under the following
conditions:
   (A)   The special use application and site plan shall contain the
information requested in §
155.335.
   (B)   The design and construction standards of this code shall apply except
as approved when variations are incorporated in the site plan or application.
   (C)   All residential planned unit developments shall make provision by
trust indenture for common land and business/industrial planned unit
developments may make provision for common land and a trust indenture shall be
required.
   (D)   Applications for approval of planned unit development designed in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be accompanied by all of
the necessary legal documentation relating to the conveyance of common areas as
provided for in §
155.224.
   (E)   Reasonable additional requirements including but not limited to
landscaping, lighting, screening, access ways, and building setback may be
imposed by the Zoning Board of Appeals for the protection of adjacent
residential property.
(Ord. 887, § 4.29, passed - -)
GENERAL OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS
§ 155.255  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section and §§
155.265 through
155.281 is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public streets and to
promote the safety and welfare of the public by establishing minimum
requirements for the off-street parking and loading and unloading of motor
vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is put. For all buildings
and structures erected and all land uses established after the effective date
of this code, accessory parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
required by this code. No part of an off-street parking area required for any
building or use for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this code
shall be included as a part of an off-street parking or loading space similarly
required for another building or use.
(Ord. 887, § 5.1, passed - -)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 155.265  ACCESSORY USES.
   No motor vehicle repair work shall be permitted in conjunction with
accessory off-street parking lots or areas provided in a residence district for
a commercial or industrial use. The sale of gasoline and motor oil when
permitted, in conjunction with accessory off-street parking areas shall be
located with respect to residential properties so as not to create a nuisance.
(Ord. 887, § 5.2, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.266  COMPUTATION.
   When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces required by
this code results in a requirement of a fractional space any fraction of ½ or
less may be disregarded, while a fraction of or in excess of ½ shall be counted
as one parking space.
(Ord. 887, § 5.3, passed - -)
§ 155.267  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION.
   For any conforming building or use which is in existence on the effective
date of this code which is damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion or other
similar cause and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or repaired,
additional off-street parking or loading facilities need not be provided,
except that parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the
time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation.
However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or
loading facilities in excess of those required by this code for equivalent new
uses or construction.
(Ord. 887, § 5.4, passed - -)
§ 155.268  ACCESS AISLES AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   Each off-street parking space shall not be less than ten feet wide and 20
feet long, except as approved by the Administrative Official.
   (A)   Aisles. Interior parking aisles permitting two-way traffic should be a
minimum of 22 feet in width. One way aisles in conjunction with 60 degree
parking shall be a minimum of 18 feet in width. Plans for other aisle widths
with other angle parking shall be as approved.
   (B)   Residential zones. Access to off-street parking areas in all
residential zone districts shall be a minimum of ten feet wide except as
follows:
      (1)   If a driveway is longer than 100 feet or serves more than the
required parking for four dwelling units, the minimum width shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Two one-way driveways each 12 feet wide may be provided in lieu of
one 20-foot driveway.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial zones. Access to off-street parking areas in
all commercial and industrial zones shall be a minimum width of 24 feet or two
separate driveways each 12 feet wide.
(Ord. 887, § 5.5, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.269  INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   (A)   All parking areas in any multiple-family, business, industrial or
similar zone district shall be designed or arranged so that no vehicle can have
direct access to or egress from any off-street parking space from a public
right-of-way. In any instance stated in this section ingress to and egress from
a parking space shall be from an aisle, driveway, or similar arrangement by
forward motion of the vehicle.
   (B)   No access way or lane shall be within 30 feet of any corner formed by
the intersection of the right-of-way of two or more streets. On a corner where
a traffic signal or stop sign exists, such entrance or exit shall be located at
such distance and in such manner so as not to cause or increase traffic hazard
or undue congestion.
   (C)   The alignments of access ways shall be at right angles and offsets are
not to exceed 20 degrees.
   (D)   Except in unusual circumstances no access way from a public street
shall exceed 35 feet in width.
(Ord. 887, § 5.6, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.270  LOT LINES.
   All parking aisles and parking spaces shall be entirely within the lot
lines, and not on a public right- of-way. Parking spaces and loading spaces
shall be so arranged that no part of any vehicle overhangs the public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 887, § 5.7, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.271  SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   All open automobile parking lots serving a commercial, industrial,
institutional or similar use shall provide a landscaped screen, wall or fence
along those property boundaries abutting a residential district or use. Such
landscaped screen, wall or fence shall be maintained by the owner or lessee and
a maintenance agreement shall be filed with the Administrative Official. Plans
for the landscaping, wall or fence shall be as approved.
(Ord. 887, § 5.8, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.272  SETBACK.
   Where two lanes of off-street parking is provided between any building and a
street, in order to accommodate pedestrian and vehicular traffic, the building
shall be set back at least 75 feet from the lot line. A six-inch vertical curb
shall be provided to separate such off-street parking areas from the public
right-of-way. Similar parking in the rear of a building shall require a setback
of at least 64 feet.
(Ord. 887, § 5.9, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.273  SURFACING.
   All open off-street parking areas, lots and driveways shall be improved with
a compacted stone base of not less than four inches thick, surfaced with two
inches of bituminous concrete or an approved material with comparable
construction.
(Ord. 887, § 5.10, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.274  EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities which are located
on the same lot as the building or use served and which were in existence on
the effective date of this code or were provided voluntarily after such
effective date shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than,
shall not further be reduced below the requirements of this code for a similar
new building or use.
   (B)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required herein for such new use. However, if the building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date of this code, additional parking or loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were subject to
the parking and loading provisions of this code.
   (C)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises
shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, or other units or measurement specified herein for required
parking or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required
herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
(Ord. 887, § 5.11, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.275  JOINT PARKING FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities for different buildings, structures, or uses,
or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively in any zoning district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted,
provided that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
(Ord. 887, § 5.12, passed - -)
§ 155.276  LOCATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   The location of offstreet parking spaces in relation to the use served shall
be as prescribed hereinafter. All distances specified shall be walking
distances from a main entrance of the use served to the nearest point of the
parking facility.
(Ord. 887, § 5.13, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.277  PARKING AND LOADING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings shall be located on the same zoning
lot as the use served, but motor vehicles may not be parked and located in any
portion of the front yard of the lit, except in that portion of the front yard
coterminous with the side yard wherein the driveway is located. Off-street
parking facilities accessory to residential use and developed in any
residential district shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles or the vehicles owned or operated by the occupants of the dwelling
structures. In no instance shall a commercial vehicle exceeding one ton
capacity be parked in a residential area, except for normal loading, unloading
or service, except by a special use permit. Commercial or related uses located
in a residence district that cannot provide the required parking on the same
zoning lot may provide parking on an adjacent lot or a lot across the street
but not more than 200 linear feet from the commercial use served.
(Ord. 887, § 5.14, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1713, passed 8-18-2009) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.278  PARKING AND LOADING IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   All required parking spaces shall be within 1,000 feet of the use served,
except that spaces accessory to dwelling units (other than those located in a
transient hotel) shall be within 300 feet of the use served. However, no
parking spaces accessory to a use in a business or industrial district shall be
located in a residence district, except that private, free, off-street parking
accessory to such uses, and municipal parking lots, may be allowed by special
use permit within 500 feet of and adjacent to any business or industrial
district.
(Ord. 887, § 5.15, passed - -)
§ 155.279  OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES.
   When required parking facilities are provided on land other than the zoning
lot on which the building or use served by such facilities is located, they
shall be and remain in the same possession or ownership as the zoning lot
occupied by the building or use to which the parking facilities are accessory.
No such off-site parking facilities shall be authorized and no building permit
or occupancy permit shall be issued where the plans call for parking facilities
other than on the same zoning lot until and unless the Administrative Official
has reviewed the plans and heard the applicant and made findings that the
common ownership or possession of the zoning lot and the site of the parking
facilities are reasonably certain to continue and that the off-site parking
facilities will be maintained at all times during the life of the proposed use
or building.
(Ord. 887, § 5.16, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.280  OTHER PARKING USES.
   For uses not listed heretofore in this schedule of parking requirements,
parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most
similar listed use as determined by the Administrative Official.
(Ord. 887, § 5.17, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.281  PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   For the following uses accessory off-street parking spaces shall be provided
as required hereinafter. Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be
based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both, on the
premises at any one time. When employee parking is required it shall be
provided on the basis of one space for each one and one-half employees.
Use Number of Parking Spaces
Residential, Civic, Educational, Institutional
Use             Number of Parking Spaces
Residential, Civic, Educational, Institutional
Apartment       Two for each dwelling unit
Hotels
Churches or     One per four seats for the largest seating area
Auditoriums
Elementary and
Junior High     One per 500 square feet of classroom area Employee parking required
Schools
Senior High     One for each 200 square feet of classroom area Employee parking required
Schools
Libraries and   One for each 500 square feet of total floor area
Museums
Municipal       One for each 300 square feet of total floor area
Buildings
Lodging Houses  One for each dwelling unit or lodging room; two for the owner or manager.
                Employee parking required.
Mobile Home     Two for each mobile home plus one for each two mobile homes for visitors and
Park or Court   the parking of recreational vehicles
Motels and      One for each dwelling unit or lodging room
Motor Hotels    Employee parking required
Multiple-Family Two for each dwelling unit
Dwelling
One-Family      Two for each dwelling unit
Dwelling
Private Clubs,
Lodges and      One for each lodging room in dormitories, each 100 square feet shall be
Dormitories     considered equivalent to a lodging room
with Sleeping   Employee parking required
Facilities for
Guests
Two-Family      Two for each dwelling unit
Dwelling
Multi-Family    One and one-half per dwelling unit
Efficiency
Multi-Family    Two for each dwelling unit
One Bedroom
Retail and Services Uses
Automobile Car  On review
Wash
Automobile
Service         On review
Stations
Banks           On review
                Four parking spaces shall be provided for each alley, plus such additional
Bowling Alleys  spaces as may be required herein for affiliated uses - bars, restaurants and
                the like
Drive-In        On review
Restaurants
                One parking space shall be provided for each five seats, or for each 50 square
Restaurants     feet of floor area used for assembly or seating purposes, whichever gives the
                greater number of spaces
Furniture and
Appliance
Stores,         Three times the net retail space divided by 350 square feet plus warehouse
Household       requirements
Equipment or
Furniture
Repair Stores
Home            Two spaces for each 200 square feet of floor space utilized in addition to the
Occupations     parking requirements of the dwelling unit
Motor Vehicle   One parking space shall be provided for each 300 square feet of total floor
Sales and       area
Machinery Sales
Municipal or
Privately Owned One parking space shall be provided for each 1½ employees, plus spaces adequate
Recreation      in number as determined by the Administrative Official to serve the visiting
Building or     public
Community
Centers
Retail Stores   One parking space shall be provided for each 200 square feet of floor area
Shopping
Centers and
Combined        Five and one-half parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross leasable
Commercial/     area
Office or
Service Uses
Theaters
(indoor) and    One parking space shall be provided for each five seats
Stage
Theaters -      At least ten stacking spaces or at least eight for each entrance at the ticket
Automobile      booths
Drive-In
Undertaking     Ten parking spaces shall be provided for each chapel or parlor, or one space
Establishments, for each five seats whichever is greater, plus one parking space for each
Funeral Parlors funeral vehicle kept on the premises. Employee parking required.
Office Uses
Business,
Professional    One parking space shall be provided for each 300 square feet of floor area plus
and             one space for each company or business vehicle
Governmental
Offices
Industrial Uses
1.  Industrial Uses of All Types, Except Warehousing and Transportation Terminals, less than
250,000 square feet of gross area:
                One parking space per 1½ employees on maximum shift or not less than one
Employee        parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area; when more than one
Parking         shift is employed, parking for both shifts shall be provided, unless sufficient
                time is allowed between shifts to provide for the maximum use of the required
                parking
Visitor Parking One parking space for each 25 employees on main shift, with a minimum of two
                parking spaces and a maximum of 20 required visitor spaces
Company         One parking space to accommodate each company-owned or leased truck or vehicle
Vehicles        usually found on the premises; size of parking spaces for trucks shall be
                approved by the Administrative Official
2.  Industrial Use of All Types, Except Warehousing and Transportation Terminals, mote than
250,000 square feet of gross floor area:
                One parking space per 1½ employees on site at maximum shift, or not less than
Employee        one for each 500 square feet; then one parking space for each 1,000 square feet
Parking         of floor area, except where a reduction in the required parking is approved by
                the Administrative Official
Visitor Parking One parking space for each 25 employees on main shifts, with a minimum of two
                parking spaces and a maximum of 20 required visitor parking spaces
Company         One parking space to accommodate each company-owned or leased truck or vehicle
Vehicles        usually found on the premises; size of parking spaces for trucks shall be
                approved by the Administrative Official
3.  Warehousing:
                One parking space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area or one parking
                space for each 1½ employees, whichever is greater; whenever all or any portion
Employee        of a warehouse area, facility or building is proposed to be converted,
Parking         remodeled, or changed to a nonwarehouse use, the number of parking spaces
                required by this section for the intended use shall be secured and provided for
                prior to conversion to use or remodeling of the warehouse facility or building
Company         One parking space to accommodate each company-owned or leased truck or vehicle
Vehicles        usually found on the premise; size of parking space for trucks shall be
                approved by the Administrative Official
4.  Transportation or Trucking Yard Terminals:
Employee        One parking space for each 1,000 square feet of warehousing, shop area, or
Parking         loading area and one parking space for each driver of a company vehicle which
                is dispatched from the terminal
                One parking space to accommodate each company-owned or leased truck or vehicle
Company Vehicle usually found on the premises; size of parking space for trucks shall be
                approved by the Administrative Official
 
(Ord. 887, § 5.18, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 155.290  GENERAL DESIGN.
   Each required off-street loading space shall be designed with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements. Such access way shall be at least 12 feet in
width.
(Ord. 887, § 5.19, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.291  BELOW MINIMUM FLOOR AREA.
   Uses for which off-street loading facilities are required herein but which
are located in buildings of less floor area than the minimum for which such
facilities are required shall be provided with adequate receiving facilities as
determined by the Administrative Official.
(Ord. 887, § 5.20, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.292  BUFFERS.
   Loading space for vehicles over two ton capacity shall not be closer than 50
feet to any property in a residence district unless completely enclosed by
building walls, a solid fence, wall or foliage buffer not less than ten feet in
height and width.
(Ord. 887, § 5.21, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.293  LOCATION.
   All permitted or required loading space shall be located on the same zoning
lot as the use served, shall not be located within 50 feet of the intersection
of any two streets, and shall not be located within required front yards except
as approved.
(Ord. 887, § 5.22, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.294  SPACES NOT FOR PARKING.
   Space allocated to any off-street loading berth shall not, while so
allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
(Ord. 887, § 5.23, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.295  SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless otherwise specified, a required loading space shall be at least ten
feet in width by at least 25 feet in length and shall have a vertical clearance
of at least 14 feet, or as determined by the Administrative Official such
greater distances as are needed to accommodate vehicles so that no vehicle
overhangs into the public right-of-way shall be provided. Reasonably adequate
turning and maneuvering space shall be provided in addition to the minimum size
loading berth requirements.
(Ord. 887, § 5.24, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.296  REPAIR AND SERVICE.
   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted in
conjunction with loading facilities provided in any “R” Residence District.
(Ord. 887, § 5.25, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.297  SPECIAL USE; OTHER USE.
   For special uses and uses other than prescribed for in this code, loading
spaces, adequate in number and size to serve such use, as determined by the
Administrative Official shall be provided.
(Ord. 887, § 5.26, passed - -)
§ 155.298  SURFACING.
   All open off-street loading space shall be improved with a compacted stone
base, not less than seven inches thick, surfaced with not less than two inches
of bituminous concrete or some comparable material with comparable
construction.
(Ord. 887, § 5.27, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.299  LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   For the uses listed in the following table, off-street loading space shall
be provided on the basis of gross floor area of building or portions thereof
devoted to such uses in the amounts shown herein.
Total Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Per Building Loading Spaces Required
Commercial, Office and Industrial Uses
Total Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Per Building Loading Spaces Required
Commercial, Office and Industrial Uses
To 2,999                                           On Review
3,000 to 19,999                                    1
20,000 to 49,000                                   2
50,000 to 100,000                                  3
Above 100,000                                      On Review
Hospitals, Institutions, and Similar Uses
To 9,999                                           On Review
10,000 to 49,999                                   1
50,000 to 100,000                                  2
Above 100,000                                      On Review
 
(Ord. 887, § 5.28, passed - -)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.310  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the size, height,
number, location, illumination and construction of signs permitted in the
various districts of the municipality.
   (B)   Conditions within the various zone districts that necessitate the
regulation of signs include:
      (1)   Conflicts between traffic-control signs and signals and various
private signs resulting in vehicular and pedestrian safety problems.
      (2)   Signs are sometimes placed in locations or constructed in a manner
that creates a danger to the public during periods of high winds or inclement
weather.
      (3)   The uncontrolled use of signs defeats the sign’s informational or
advertising functions as competitors escalate sign size and expense in an
effort to fairly attract attention.
      (4)   The uncontrolled use and proliferation of signs create visual
pollution that destroys the beauty of the municipality the attractiveness of
commercial areas and the ability of the public to safely and quickly interpret
the intended message.
(Ord. 887, § 6.1, passed - -)
§ 155.311  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The sign standards of this subchapter shall be regulated by zone
districts as shown on the municipality zone district map(s).
   (B)   If this code is amended to include a zone district not presently
included in this code, no sign shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   By a written interpretation of the Zoning Board of Appeals the new
zone district is similar to an existing zone district; or
      (2)   Additional sign regulations for the new zone district are included
in the amendment.
(Ord. 887, § 6.2, passed - -)
§ 155.312  ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded or
directed that the light intensity or brightness shall not be objectionable to
surrounding areas and the light rays shall not spill over the property lines
into a residential zone except by indirect reflection.
   (B)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or other
illuminating device which has a changing light intensity, brightness or color.
Beacon lights are not permitted. This section is not intended to prevent signs
showing time and temperature exclusively.
   (C)   Neither the direct, nor reflected light from primary light sources
shall create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public
thoroughfares.
   (D)   No exposed lamps or bulbs which exceed 15 watts shall be used on the
exterior surface of any sign so as to expose the face of the bulbs, light or
lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
(Ord. 887, § 6.3, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.313  MEASUREMENT OF SIGNS.
   All signs shall be measured as shown in Figure 3 of
Appendix C. Measurements shall include all of the area contained within the
square shown in Figure 3 and only structural supports shall be excluded in
computing total allowable sign area. Only one side of any double facing sign
shall be considered in the total sign area permitted for any building, use or
lot, provided that the same message appears on both faces of the sign.
(Ord. 887, § 6.4, passed - -)
§ 155.314  PROHIBITED PLACEMENT.
   No sign shall be attached to a tree or utility pole.
(Ord. 887, § 6.5, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.315  SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL AND AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted signs may be anywhere on the premises, except as restricted
by §
155.208(A) or if ground mounted, the top shall not be over five feet above the
ground and, if wall mounted, shall be flush mounted and shall not project above
the roof line. Lighting, if used, shall be white.
   (B)   A sign not exceeding two square feet in area shall be permitted, per
dwelling unit. The sign per dwelling shall indicate only the name of the
occupant and may include the address.
   (C)   For multiple dwellings one additional sign totaling six square feet in
area shall be permitted. The additional sign area permitted for multiple
dwelling shall only be for identification of the building.
(Ord. 887, § 6.6, passed - -)
§ 155.316  SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   These sign regulations shall apply to all business zone districts except as
specifically exempted.
   (A)   Content. Signs allowed in this zone shall be identity signs only;
however, they may include a changeable marquee provision.
   (B)   Wall signs. Any business use may be permitted a wall sign for each
side of a building fronting a public street. Wall signs shall not project more
than one foot from the building wall and copy shall run parallel (horizontal)
with the wall.
   (C)   Size. Maximum permitted wall sign area shall be one square foot of
sign area for each linear foot of building frontage on a street to a maximum of
300 square feet on individual street frontages (see §
155.313)
   (D)   Free standing signs. Free standing signs shall be permitted in all
business districts.
   (E)   Clearance and height. An area ten feet in height, except for
structural members, shall be maintained clear of obstruction under any free
standing sign to increase pedestrian safety and to create a clear field of
vision to recognize the location of streets and commercial entrances and exits.
Free standing signs may not exceed 30 feet from ground elevation except as
increased by variance approval.
   (F)   Location. Any sign may be located anywhere on the premises unless
locations are given herein and provided the regulations of §
155.208(A) are met, and:
      (1)   No sign shall intrude into any public right-of-way and structural
supports shall be at least ten feet from any public right-of-way line except as
approved.
      (2)   Any sign shall be at least ten feet above a sidewalk and 15 feet
above driveways or alleys.
      (3)   Signs may be on the vertical faces of marquees. The bottom of
marquee signs shall be no less than ten feet above the grade at any point. No
part of the changeable copy shall project above or below the vertical marquee
face.
   (G)   Computation. The maximum allowable area for any free standing sign
shall be based on the following formula:
 
Factor Times Principal Frontage Equals Sign Size
Factor Linear Feet of Principal Frontage     Allowable Sign Area in Square Feet
2.5    First 50 feet                         125
2.0    Next 50 feet                      add 100
1.5    Next 50 feet                      add 75
1.0    Next 100 feet                     add 100
Maximum total possible is 400 square feet of sign area
 
   (H)   Incidental signs. Signs indicating services, products, prices, trade
information, or other information not including product advertising are
incidental signs.
      (1)   No products or product containers or signs shall be closer to a
public right-of-way line than ten feet.
      (2)   All incidental signs shall be wall signs or shall be on a
permanently installed structure. If incidental signs are wall signs their area
in square feet shall be subtracted from the total area permitted for wall
signs. Other incidental signs are deemed free standing and their area in square
feet shall be subtracted from the total area permitted for free standing signs.
(Ord. 887, § 6.7, passed - -)
§ 155.317  SIGNS IN INDUSTRIAL ZONES; SIZE.
   (A)   Size. For each industrial establishment one square foot of sign area
for each lineal foot of building frontage on a public street is permitted. Free
standing and wall sign requirements are the same as in the business zones
except the maximum total area of all permitted signs shall not exceed 300
square feet.
   (B)   Location. Requirements shall be the same as for business zones.
   (C)   Content. Signs permitted in this zone shall be identity signs only.
(Ord. 887, § 6.8, passed - -)
§ 155.318  TYPES OF SIGNS.
   Signs listed in this section shall be permitted in any zone district on
private property, shall not require a permit but are subject to the general
requirements of this subchapter. These signs are classified as identity signs.
   (A)   Construction signs. Construction signs which identify the architects,
engineers, contractors and other individuals or firms involved with
construction, but not including any advertisement of any product and signs
announcing the character of the building enterprise or the purpose for which
the building is intended, during the construction period, to a maximum area of
16 square feet for each firm. The signs shall be removed within 14 days of the
beginning of the intended use of the project or as individual subcontracts
expire, whichever is sooner.
   (B)   Real estate. Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or lease
of residential property may be four square feet, and may be 16 square feet for
other property provided they are on the premises for sale, rental or lease.
Such signs shall be removed within seven days of the sale, rental or lease.
   (C)   Political campaign. One sign per premises of up to 32 square feet on
nonresidential property may be permitted announcing candidates for public
office. In residential or agricultural areas or districts political campaign
signs of up to 16 square feet, one per premises, may be permitted. These signs
shall be confined within private property and removed within seven days after
the election for which they were made.
   (D)   Street banners. Street banners advertising a public entertainment or
event, if approved by the Administrative Official and only for locations
designated by the Administrative Official during and for 14 days before and
seven days after the event.
   (E)   Yard signs. Signs commonly regarded as “garage or yard sale” signs
shall be permitted only on private property and shall be restricted to a
maximum area of four square feet. The sign shall be dated when posted and shall
be removed seven days after posting.
   (F)   Charitable signs. Other signs publicizing a charitable or nonprofit
event of general public interest shall be permitted only on private property
and shall be restricted to a maximum area of four square feet in residential
zones and 32 square feet in business or industrial zones. Such signs shall be
permitted for 14 days before and seven days after the event.
   (G)   Public signs. Signs in the public interest, erected on the order of a
public officer in the performance of his or her public duty, such as safety
signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic signs, memorial plaques, signs
of historical interest and the like shall be permitted when notification is
given to the Administrative Official.
   (H)   Institutional. Signs setting forth the name or any simple announcement
for any public, charitable, educational or religious institution located
entirely within premises of that institution, up to an area of 24 square feet.
If ground mounted, the top shall be no more than six feet above ground level
(see §
155.208). Such signs concerning announcements shall be permitted no more than
14 days before and seven days after such event.
   (I)   Integral. Names of buildings, dates of erection, monumental citations,
commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete or similar
material or other permanent type construction and made an integral part of the
structure.
   (J)   Private traffic directions. Signs directing traffic movement onto a
premise or within a premise, not exceeding three square feet in area for each
sign may be permitted. Horizontal signs on and flush with paved areas are
exempt from these standards.
   (K)   Home occupations. Signs not exceeding two square feet in area for
urban home occupations attached flat against the building, stationary and not
illuminated, announcing only the name and occupation of the resident are
permitted.
   (L)   Vehicles. Signs on vehicles of any kind, provided the sign is painted
or attached directly to the body of the original vehicle and does not project
or extend beyond the original manufactured body proper of the vehicle excepting
magnetic signs not extending more than  inch may be permitted.
   (M)   Subdivision entrance. Subdivision entrance signs not to exceed six
square feet of sign area not including decorative mounting, which shall not
exceed five feet in height, shall be non-illuminated, non- pole mounted and so
located as not to create a safety hazard at intersections may be permitted.
(Ord. 887, §§ 6.9 - 6.22, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.319  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign existing in violation of this section shall be removed,
altered or repaired in accordance with the provisions of this code within three
months after the date of passage of this code.
   (B)   Prohibited are signs which:
      (1)   Contain statements, words, or pictures of an obscene, indecent, or
immoral character, such as will offend the public morals or decency.
      (2)   Contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or signal.
      (3)   Are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring, or manner of
illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic control
device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal.
      (4)   Advertise an activity, business, product or service no longer
conducted on the premises upon which the sign is located.
      (5)   Move in any manner or have a major moving part.
      (6)   Include, contain, or consist of banners, posters, pennants,
ribbons, streamers, strings, or light bulbs, spinners, or other similarly
moving devices. These devices when not part of any sign are similarly
prohibited, unless they are permitted specifically by other ordinances.
      (7)   May swing or otherwise noticeably move as a result of wind pressure
because of the manner of their suspension or attachment.
(Ord. 887, § 6.23, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.320  TAGGING.
   All signs shall display, in a place conspicuous to inspectors, a tag
approved by the Administrative Official and containing such pertinent data as
he or she may designate such as name of owner, date of erection and size in
square footage.
(Ord. 887, § 6.24, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.321  MAINTENANCE.
   All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good repair and in safe,
neat, clean and attractive condition.
(Ord. 887, § 6.25, passed - -) 
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.322  REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   The Administrative Official may order the removal of any sign erected or
maintained in violation of this code. He or she shall give 30 days notice in
writing to the owner of such sign, or of the building, structure or premises on
which such sign is located, to remove the sign or to bring it into compliance.
The Administrative Official may remove a sign immediately and without notice
if, in his or her opinion, the condition of the sign is such as to present an
immediate threat to the safety of the public.
(Ord. 887, § 6.26, passed - -)
§ 155.323  APPEALS.
   An owner or lessee of a sign in violation of this code may appeal the
violation notice issued by the Administrative Official by filing a written
appeal form in the office of the Administrative Official (see §
155.336). The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal in accordance with
their usual procedure.
(Ord. 887, § 6.27, passed - -)
§ 155.324  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; APPLICATION; NULLIFICATION.
   (A)   Requirements. No sign shall be erected, altered or relocated without a
permit issued by the Administrative Official, except as otherwise provided
herein. Where electrical permits are required, they shall be obtained at the
same time as the sign permit.
   (B)   Application. The permit application shall contain the location of the
sign structure, the name and address of the sign owner and of the sign erector,
drawings showing the design and location of the sign and such other pertinent
information as the Administrative Official may require to insure compliance
with the codes and ordinances of the municipality.
   (C)   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
for which the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of six
months after the date of the permit. Permit fee shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 887, §§ 6.28 - 6.30, passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.335  PERMITS; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications and permits. All zoning and building applications shall
be filed with the Administrative Official. There shall be submitted with all
applications, two copies of a layout or site plan of the proposed site at a
scale necessary for clarity, but not larger than 36 inches square, showing:
      (1)   The location, dimensions and character of all present and/or
proposed buildings, structures and uses;
      (2)   The location of adjacent pedestrian and vehicular traffic
circulation;
      (3)   The location of off-street parking and off-street loading;
      (4)   Proposed type of surfacing material for access ways and parking;
      (5)   Plan for pedestrian and vehicular traffic within the subject area
with consideration given to the established street systems serving the subject
area, and to emergency vehicle access to each building;
      (6)   Perspectives or such other information as is necessary to indicate
the relative compatibility of the proposed development with the immediate
neighborhood as well as within the subject area;
      (7)   General landscaping and screening plan;
      (8)   Location of public or private utilities proposed to serve the
subject area;
      (9)   Proposed finished grade of the site;
      (10)   Development schedule providing reasonable guarantees for the
completion of the proposed development or other construction according to the
development schedule;
      (11)   Current zone district classification; and
      (12)   Proposed zone district classification, when applicable.
   (B)   Bulk variance. Applications for area-bulk variances shall supply the
applicable provisions of division (A) of this section and shall meet the
requirements of §
155.336(D).
   (C)   Zoning compliance certificate. Hereinafter no land shall be occupied
or used and no building erected, altered, or extended, shall be used or changed
in use until an occupancy permit shall have been issued by the Administrative
Official stating that the building zoning classification, building location and
proposed use thereof complies with the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Issuance. An occupancy permit for a new building or the reconstruction
or alteration of an existing building shall be applied for coincident with the
application for a building permit and the certificate shall be issued within
five working days following an approved final inspection of the premises
involved.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses.  No nonconforming use shall be reinstated,
changed, or extended without an occupancy permit having first been issued by
the Administrative Official.
   (F)   Fees for zoning compliance certificate.  The fee for occupancy permit
and inspections shall be included in the building permit application fee and no
additional fee shall be required.
   (G)   Zoning application - special use permit.  This code divides the entire
municipality into zoning districts and in each district there are mutually
compatible uses which are permitted. It is recognized, however, that other uses
may be necessary or desirable but their potential influence on permitted uses
could be harmful. For this reason they are classed as special uses and may be
permitted only under certain conditions.  These special uses may be public or
private uses. Applications for special uses shall provide the information
requested in division (A) above of this section.
   (H)   Zoning application - amendments. The Corporate Authority may from time
to time on its own motion, or on petition of any person or persons in interest,
or on initial recommendation of the Planning Commission amend, supplement, or
repeal the regulations and provisions of this code. Any application to amend
this code shall be made to the Administrative Official.
   (I)   Planning Commission advisory report. Any such proposed amendment or
change, when initiated by the Corporate Authority or by individual petition
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for an advisory report thereon.
When a proposed amendment or change is initiated by the Planning Commission the
advisory report shall accompany the initial recommendation of the Planning
Commission.
   (J)   Amendment procedure. Proposed amendments to this code shall follow the
procedures of
§ 155.336(E) and applications shall contain the information requested in
division (A) of this section.
   (K)   Zoning application fees.
      (1)   The following fees apply equally to:
         (a)   Special use permits.
         (b)   Area-bulk variance.
         (c)   Amendments.
      (2)   The fees for subsections (a), (b) and (c) above shall be paid to
the Municipal Clerk in the amount of $100 plus the cost of advertising prior to
submission of the application to the Administrative Official. Any fee once paid
shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 887, §§ 7.1 - 7.11, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1608, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 155.336  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Zoning procedure; powers and duties. “Board” when used in this section
shall be construed to mean Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board shall consist of
seven members appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the City
Council. The terms of office shall be five years; provided that the members of
the first Board shall serve respectively for the following terms or until their
respective successors are appointed and qualified: one for one year, one for
two years, one for three years, one for four years, one for five years, one for
six years and one for seven years; and five each for those following the first
appointment. The Chairperson of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with
consent of the City Council and shall hold office until his or her term of
appointment expires, or is otherwise terminated.
   (B)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson or any two members, or at such times as the Board may
determine. All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public. The
Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member
upon each question, or in absence or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of
fact shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested area-bulk
variation, and the reason for granting or denying such application shall be
specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and
every order, requirement and interpretation, decision or determination of the
Board shall be filed immediately in the office of the Board and shall be a
public record. The Board shall adopt its own rules and procedures, not in
conflict with this code or with Illinois statutes.
   (C)   (1)   Appeals. An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals
by any person, firm or corporation, or by any officer, department, board or
bureau affected by a decision of the Administrative Official concerning the
zoning provisions of this code. Such appeal shall be taken within 45 days by
filing with the Administrative Official a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds thereof. The Administrative Official shall thereupon transmit to the
Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken. An appeal shall stay all proceeding in furtherance of action
appealed from, unless the Administrative Official certifies to the Zoning Board
of Appeals after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, the stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by a Court of Record on
application, or notice to the Administrative Official and on due cause shown.
The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties concerned, including the
applicant and any known objectors, and shall render a decision on the appeal
without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at the hearing,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. The Board may reverse
or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from to the extent and in the manner that
the Board may decide to be fitting and proper to the premises.
      (2)   Appeal fee. Any person, firm or corporation prior to filing a
notice of appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals under division (C), shall pay
to the Municipal Clerk a fee of $100. Any fee once paid shall not be refunded.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have all the
powers and duties prescribed by law and by this code including the following:
      (1)   Interpretation. Upon an appeal from a decision by any
Administrative Official, to decide any question involving the interpretation of
any provision or term of the zoning provisions of this code including the
determination of the exact location of any district boundary if there is
uncertainty with respect thereto.
      (2)   Area-bulk variance. To vary or adapt the strict application of the
requirements of the zoning provisions of this code in the case of exceptionally
irregular, narrow, shallow, or steep lots, or other exceptional physical
conditions, whereby such strict application would result in such practical
difficulty and/or unnecessary hardship as would deprive the owner of the
reasonable use of the land or building involved, but in no other case. In
granting an area-bulk variance the Board shall prescribe conditions that it
deems to be necessary or desirable for the public interest, convenience or
welfare. No area-bulk variance in the application of any provisions of this
code shall be granted by the Board unless it finds:
         (a)   That special circumstances or conditions fully described in
findings of fact apply to the land or buildings for which the area-bulk
variance is sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land
or buildings and do not apply generally to the land or buildings in the
neighborhood, and that the circumstances or conditions are such that strict
application of the provisions of this code would deprive the applicant of a
reasonable use of such land or building;
         (b)   That, for reasons fully set forth in the findings, the granting
of the area-bulk variance is necessary for the reasonable use of land or
buildings, and that the variance as granted by the Board is the minimum
variance that will accomplish this purpose;
         (c)   That the granting of this variance will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this code and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. In addition to
considering the character and use of adjoining buildings and those in the
vicinity the Board in making its findings shall take into account whether the
conditions of the subject premises is peculiar to the lot or tract described in
the petition or is merely part of the general condition of the neighborhood
which would appropriately be the proper jurisdiction of the Corporate Authority
for consideration of rezoning of the area rather than a variance which would
affect only a small segment of the area.
      (3)   Permits for area-bulk variances. To issue or authorize area bulk
variances for any matter for which this code allows or requires the obtaining
of a variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Board shall not issue any
permit concerning special uses or a zoning change in use.
   (E)   Procedure - Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Board shall act in accordance with the procedure specified by
law and by this code. Four members shall constitute a quorum and except as
otherwise provided by this code an affirmative vote of at least four members
shall be necessary to authorize any action of the Board. All appeals and
applications to the Board shall be in writing. Every appeal or application
shall refer to the specific provision of the code involved, and shall exactly
set forth the interpretation that is claimed, the matter for which it is
claimed that the variance should be granted, as the case may be.
      (2)   The municipality may appear by any designated official of the
Corporate Authority and be heard as a party in interest in any hearing before
the Board and the municipality may appeal any decision of the Board to a court
of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   Notice and hearing. No action of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be taken on any case until after notice has been given that public hearing has
been held as follows:
         (a)   A notice of the time and date of the hearing and a brief summary
of explanation of the subject matter of the hearing shall be published in the
newspaper of general circulation within the municipality within at least 15 but
not more than 30 days prior to the hearing date.
         (b)   The notice in the foregoing subsection (a) shall be sent by
first class mail to the applicant and owners of property in question at the
time the public notice is published.
         (c)   Notice of the hearing concerning special use permits and
rezoning requests shall additionally be sent by first class mail to property
owners or persons residing on land adjacent to the property in question. The
applicant shall furnish the necessary names and addresses of adjacent property
owners.
   (F)   Special use permit and amendment. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
conduct all public hearings concerning special use permits and amendments to
this code and shall issue an advisory report to the Corporate Authority
concerning each application.
   (G)   Advisory reports. All advisory reports shall consider at least the
following:
      (1)   The effect the proposal would have on the municipal comprehensive
or land use plan;
      (2)   The effect the proposal would have on the health, welfare, safety,
morals and comfort of the surrounding area;
      (3)   The effect the development would have on schools, traffic streets,
shopping, public utilities and adjacent properties;
      (4)   Is the application necessary for the public convenience at that
location or, in the case of existing nonconforming uses, that a special use
permit will make the use more compatible with its surroundings;
      (5)   Is the application so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety, and welfare will be protected;
      (6)   Will the application cause injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located;
      (7)   Will the special use be detrimental to the essential character of
the district in which it is located.
   (H)   Hearing on application. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear the
application (or any modified application) in accordance with its usual
procedure. They may: (1) recommend the application with or without conditions,
(2) recommend denial of the application, or (3) refer the application back to
the applicant for modification. If the application is recommended, the
application in final form shall clearly note all stipulated conditions.
   (I)   Records. A record of the proceedings shall be preserved in such manner
as the Zoning Board of Appeals shall by rule prescribe from time to time.
Within 15 working days following the hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
file a report of the hearing and its advisory report with the Corporate
Authority.
   (J)   Application modification. If the application is referred back for
modification by the Zoning Board of Appeals or subsequently by the Corporate
Authority the applicant may resubmit the application in accordance with the
directions of the Zoning Board of Appeals, if any, otherwise in time for the
next regular meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (K)   Written protest. In case of a written protest against any proposed
amendments of the zoning regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by
the owners of 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by owners of 20%
of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the
owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered, if filed with the Municipal Clerk, the amendment shall not be passed
except by a favorable vote of at least two-thirds of the Corporate Authority.
   (L)   Corporate authority procedure. Upon receipt of the Zoning Board of
Appeals’ advisory report, the Corporate Authority shall act according to its
legislative procedure; however, any decision of the Corporate Authority
contrary to a negative recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
require a two-thirds majority vote of the Corporate Authority for passage.
   (M)   Finding of fact. Every special use permit or amendment granted by the
Corporate Authority shall be by ordinance and shall be accompanied by a finding
of fact specifying the reason for making such special use permit.
   (N)   Minor plan changes/special use permits. Any development plan shall be
a permanent site plan and shall not be modified, nor shall any additions be
made thereto, except minor changes in a developmental plan may be made upon
application to the Administrative Official. Major changes in the developmental
plan require total review and reapplication.
   (O)   Special use expansion. Any expansion of a special use involving the
enlargement of the buildings, structures, and land area devoted to such use
shall be subject to the procedures set forth in this subchapter. (See division
(F) above.)
   (P)   Revocation - expiration. The Corporate Authority may revoke a permit
issued under this subchapter if:
      (1)   The proposal for which a permit has been issued is not carried out
pursuant to the approved final site plan; or
      (2)   If any condition or requirement included in the permit is not
complied with; or
      (3)   Any permit shall expire at the time or under the conditions
established for the individual permit.
(Ord. 887, §§ 8.1 - 8.16, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1608, passed 3-25-2003)
§ 155.337  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The enforcement of this zoning code is hereby vested in the Municipal
Building Inspector referred to as the Administrative Official of this code.
   (B)   The Administrative Official shall administer and enforce this zoning
code, and in addition thereto and in furtherance of the authority he or she
shall: receive all applications and issue permits and certificates authorized
under the terms of this code only when all provisions of this code have been
complied with.
      (1)   Forward for action to the appropriate review body all special use,
variances, amendments, and other applications with all pertinent documentation
required.
      (2)   Conduct or have conducted such inspections as are necessary to
determine compliance with the terms of this code.
      (3)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to all
matters arising out of this code.
      (4)   Maintain permanent and current records of all the above including
maps and amendments to this code.
(Ord. 887, §§ 9.1, 9.2, passed - -)
§ 155.338  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   In no instance shall a governmental or administrative official allow any
public improvements to be made or building permits to be issued until all the
requirements of this code have been fully complied with.
(Ord. 887, § 9.3, passed - -)
§ 155.339  STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any building work is being done, or uses established, altered or
otherwise changed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Administrative Official or other authorized person may order the work stopped
by notice in writing served on any person engaged in doing or causing such work
to be done and any such person shall forthwith stop such work until authorized
by the Administrative Official to proceed.
(Ord. 887, § 9.4, passed - -)
§ 155.340  PROSECUTION.
   Whenever a violation of this code occurs, any person, including the
Administrative Official or any other duly authorized municipal official or
personnel in addition to and not by way of limitation of other remedies
available, may file a complaint in the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 887, § 9.5, passed - -)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   A violation, by any person, corporation or otherwise, whether as principal
agent, employee, or otherwise, of any provisions of this code shall be a
misdemeanor, subject, upon conviction, to a fine of not more than $750 for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during,
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 887, § 9.6, passed - -)
APPENDIX A:  CORNERS
Click_here_to_view_Figure_1
(Ord. 887, § 1.9, Figure 1, passed - -)
APPENDIX B:  LOTS
Click_here_to_view_Figure_2
(Ord. 887, § 1.9, Figure 2, passed - -)
APPENDIX C:  SIGN AREA
Click_here_to_view_Figure_3
Click_here_to_view_Figure_4
(Ord. 887, § 1.9, Figures 3, 4, passed - -)
APPENDIX D:  TIEDOWN REQUIREMENTS
Click_here_to_view_Figure_5
(Ord. 887, § 1.9, Figure 5, passed - -)
APPENDIX E:  MINIMUM DISTRICT REGULATIONS
MINIMUM “A”     “R-1” SINGLE- FAMILY “R-2” SINGLE- FAMILY “R-3” MULTIPLE FAMILY
        AGRICULTURE RESIDENCE                RESIDENCE                RESIDENCE
MINIMUM                “A”     “R-1” SINGLE- FAMILY “R-2” SINGLE- FAMILY “R-3” MULTIPLE FAMILY
                       AGRICULTURE RESIDENCE                RESIDENCE                RESIDENCE
             Lot area
             in sq.    3 acres     6,000 square feet        4,000 square feet        7,500 square feet
             ft. or
             acres
             Width at
Lot          building
Standards    line in   200’      80’                    65’                    65’
             linear
             feet
             Mean
             depth in  200’      120’                   100’                   100’
             linear
             feet
             Local     65’       50’                    45’                    50’
             streets
Front        Collector 78’       57’                    52’                    57’
building     streets
line setback Minor                 65’                    60’                    65’
requirements arterial
from the     Arterial  90’       75’                    60’                    75’
center line  streets
of:          State and
             Federal   90’       75’                    70’                    75’
             Highways
             Depth of
             side yard
             abutting  35’       25’                    20’                    25’
             a street
             in linear
             feet
             Total for 30’       15’                    15’                    15’
             both
             Minimum
             for       10’       5’                     8’                     5’
             either
             Distance
             to
             nearest
             principal 30’       15’                    15’                    15’
Depth of     building
side yard    on
abutting lot adjacent
in linear    lot
feet         Depth of
             rear yard 30’       25’                    25’                    25’
             in linear
             feet
             Maximum
             height of
             principal 35’       25’                    25’                    35’
             building
             in linear
             feet
             Floor
             area      0.5         0.5                      0.5                      0.5
             ratio
             Max. no.
             of        1 per 3     1                        1                        1 per 3,000 sq. ft. of
             dwelling  acres                                                         lot area
             units
 
MINIMUM      “B-1” NEIGHBORHOOD “B-2” COMMUNITY “B-4” LIMITED BUSINESS “I-1”
REQUIREMENTS BUSINESS               BUSINESS            DISTRICT                   INDUSTRIAL
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS   “B-1” NEIGHBORHOOD “B-2” COMMUNITY “B-4” LIMITED BUSINESS “I-1”
                       BUSINESS               BUSINESS            DISTRICT                   INDUSTRIAL
             Lot area
             in sq.    7,500 sq. ft.          -0-                 7,500 sq. ft.              -0-
             ft. or
             acres
             Width at
             building
             line in   60’                  -0-                 50’                      -0-
* Lot        linear
Standards    feet
             Mean
             depth in  100’                 -0-                 100’                     -0-
             linear
             feet
             Local     50’                  -0-                 50’                      50’
             streets
             Collector 57’                  -0-                 57’                      57’
             streets
             Arterial  75’                  -0-                 65’                      75’
* Front      streets
bldg. line   Minor     65’                  -0-                 65’                      65’
setback      arterial
requirements State and
from the     Federal   75’                  -0-                 75’                      75’
center line  Highways
of:          Depth of
             side yard
             abutting  25’                  -0-                 25’                      25’
             a street
             in linear
             feet
             Total for None required          None required       None required              40’
* Depth of   both
side yard    Min. for  **                     **                  **                         20’**
abutting lot either
in linear    Depth of
feet         rear yard 20’                  20’               20’                      20’
             in linear
             feet
             Max.
             height of
             principal 25’                  35’               25’                      45’
*  Other    bldg. in
provisions   linear
             feet
             Floor
             area      0.5                    3:1                 0.5                        1:1
             ratio
*All distances are in lineal feet unless otherwise stated
**When abutting an “R” or “MR” district, a landscaped screen of at least ten feet in depth and expected
to reach a height of at least five feet shall be provided
 
(Ord. 887, §§ 2.201, 2.202, passed - -)
CHAPTER 156:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Jurisdiction
   
156.04   Incorporation of figures by reference
   
156.05   Disclaimer of liability
   
156.06   Definitions
Subdivision Design and Improvements Standards
   
156.20   Interpretation
   
156.21   Suitability for subdivision generally
   
156.22   Reference monuments
   
156.23   Lot requirements
   
156.24   Block requirements
   
156.25   Street design standards
   
156.26   Street improvement standards
   
156.27   Sidewalk requirements/construction standards
   
156.28   Street names and street markers
   
156.29   Installation of lighting on public ways
   
156.30   Electrical power, telephone and cable antenna television lines
   
156.31   Water facilities
   
156.32   Fire prevention and suppression
   
156.33   Fire hydrants
   
156.34   Easements
   
156.35   Sanitary sewers
   
156.36   Drainage and storm sewers
   
156.37   Grading, erosion control
   
156.38   Reservation for public purposes
Plats and Plans
   
156.50   Pre-application conference
   
156.51   Preliminary plats
   
156.52   Improvement plans
   
156.53   Final plats
   
156.54   Matters related to recording
   
156.55   Minor subdivisions
Assurances for the Completion and Maintenance of Required Improvements
   
156.65   Assurances generally
   
156.66   Completion security
   
156.67   Subdivider’s maintenance responsibilities
   
156.68   Maintenance security
Administrative Matters and Miscellaneous Provisions
   
156.80   Administrator’s duties
   
156.81   Vacation of plats
   
156.82   Subdivision variances
   
156.83   Amendments
   
156.84   Fees
   
156.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Basic Types of Lots
   
Appendix B:   Illustration of a Typical Lot
   
Appendix C:   Sight Lines at Comers
   
Appendix D:   Horizontal Curves
   
Appendix E:   Reverse Curves
   
Appendix F:   Typical Street Cross Section
   
Appendix G:   Curb and Gutter
   
Appendix H:   Inlets
   
Appendix I:   Curb Ramps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01  TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and cited as the “Land Subdivision
Standards of the City of Madison, Illinois.”
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.02  PURPOSE.
   In accordance with state law (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-5 and ILCS Ch. 765
Act 205, § 1), these regulations control the subdivision and future development
of land in order to assist in achieving the following objectives:
   (A)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare;
   (B)   To ensure a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and use of land;
   (C)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
   (D)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, and
dwellings and other buildings throughout the city;
   (E)   To preserve the city’s natural beauty and topography to the maximum
feasible extent;
   (F)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution, storm
water runoff, erosion and sedimentation, and other hazards;
   (G)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to avoid
traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the proper
location, design, and construction of streets;
   (H)   To ensure the proper installation and maintenance of adequate water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers, and other utilities and services;
and
   (I)   To provide a means for making adequate parks, schools, and other
public facilities available to the residents of new developments.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.03  JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable to the subdivision of land within the
corporate boundaries of the City of Madison, Illinois.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.04  INCORPORATION OF FIGURES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Certain design concepts, improvements standards, and related matters
addressed herein, because of their highly technical nature, are exceedingly
difficult to express clearly in narrative fashion.
Accordingly, the following illustrations (figures) are hereby incorporated into
these regulations by reference:
      (1)   Figure 1: “Basic Types of Lots” (see §
156.06);
      (2)   Figure 2: “Illustration of a Typical Lot” (see §
156.06);
      (3)   Figure 3: “Sight Lines at Corners” (see §
156.25);
      (4)   Figure 4: “Horizontal Curves” (see §
156.25);
      (5)   Figure 5: “Reverse Curves” (see §
156.25);
      (6)   Figure 6: “Typical Street Cross-Sections” (see §
156.26);
      (7)   Figure 7: “Curb and Gutter” (see §
156.26); and
      (8)   Figure 8: “Inlets” (see §
156.36).
   (B)   The requirements indicated in the illustrations shall be as effective
and binding as the narrative portions of these regulations.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.05  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
official, Council member, agent, or employee of the city shall render himself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under these regulations. (See “Local Governmental and Governmental Employees
Tort Immunity Act,” ILCS Ch. 745, Act 10, § 1-101, as amended from time to
time.)
   (B)   Any suit brought against any official, Council member, agent, or
employee of the city, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under these regulations shall be defended by the
city until the final determination of the legal proceedings, to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.06  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The administrator of these regulations, as designated by the
City Council, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   ALLEY.  A public access way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street.
   AMENDMENT.  A change in the provision of these regulations enacted by the
City Council in accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
   AREA, GROSS.  The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed
for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
   AREA, NET.  The entire area within the boundary lines of the tract proposed
for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley rights-of-
way and/or other public purposes.
   AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY.  Any road which connects and provides direct access to
major traffic generators, provides secondary service to small communities,
provides access to abutting property, and/or has an estimated Average Daily
Traffic (ADT) at full development of the subdivision of greater than 5,000
vehicles.
   AS-BUILT.  See RECORD DRAWINGS.
   CATCH BASIN.  See INLET.
   CENTERLINE OFFSET.  The distance between the centerlines of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both the
“parallel” streets intersect.
   CITY ENGINEER.  A licensed professional engineer designated by the City
Council to perform specified professional engineering services for the city.
   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate (ADT 1000-5000) volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial
streets or area service highways.
   COMMON GROUND.  Land within or related to a development, not individually
owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended for the
common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and may include
such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate.
   CROSS-SLOPE.  The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way
rather than in the direction traffic moves on the right-of-way.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  A short street having only one outlet for vehicular traffic and
having the other end permanently terminated by a turnaround for vehicles; the
term may also be used to refer solely to the turnaround.
   CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL.  The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of poured concrete as a
single facility.
   DEDICATE.  To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land, or
improvement to the city or other public entity without compensation.
   DENSITY, GROSS.  The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area.
   DENSITY, NET.  The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
amount of residential acreage, not including the area for street and alley
rights-of-way or public uses.
   DEVELOP.  To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefor.
   DISTRICT, ZONING.  A portion of the territory of the city wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots,
and uses under the terms of the Zoning Ordinance.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT.  See LOT, THROUGH.
   DRAINAGEWAY.  A water course, gully, dry stream, creek, or ditch which
naturally carries storm water runoff or which is fed by street or building
gutters or by storm water sewers.
   EASEMENT.  A right to use another person’s property, but only for a limited
and specifically- named purpose.
   FRONTAGE.  The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   FRONTAGE ROAD.  A minor street roughly paralleling an arterial street or
highway, used for access to abutting lots.
   GONE ON RECORD.  As used herein, the term GONE ON RECORD means officially
adopted by the legislative body of a municipality, township, county, state, or
other governmental entity; or officially adopted by a department of the state
(for example, the Illinois Department of Transportation). Generally, materials
which are on record may be found in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds,
but certain other legal materials such as State Regulations or municipal
ordinances which cannot be found in the Recorder of Deeds Office shall
nonetheless be deemed on record.
   GRADE.  The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed as
a percentage. Synonym of “slope.”
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS.  The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the facilities to be installed in, or in conjunction
with, a subdivision.
   IMPROVEMENTS.  Site grading or any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk,
drainage ditch, sewer, catch basin, newly planted tree, landscaping, off-street
parking area, or other facility necessary for the general use of property
owners in a subdivision.
   INLET.  A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a storm water
sewer, designed to retain matter that would not readily pass through the sewer
and to allow storm water runoff to enter the sewer.
   INTERSECTION.  The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
   LOCAL STREET.  A street serving limited (ADT less than 1000) amounts of
residential traffic, and used for access to abutting property.
   LOT.  A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or otherwise, permitted by law to be used, developed or built upon
as a unit.
   LOT AREA.  The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lines of a lot, exclusive of any area designated for street purposes.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines
(see
Appendix A, Figure 1).
   LOT, FLAG.  A lot fronting on or abutting a public road and where access to
the public road is by narrow, private right-of-way (see
Appendix A, Figure 1).
   LOT OF RECORD.  An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds in accordance with state law.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot bounded by a street on only one side; any lot other
than a corner lot (see Figure 1).
   LOT, REVERSED FRONTAGE.  A through lot which is not accessible from one of
the parallel or non-intersecting streets upon which it fronts (see
Appendix A, Figure 1).
   LOT, THROUGH.  A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two  approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines. Also known as a double frontage lot (see
Appendix A, Figure 1).
   MAINTENANCE BOND.  A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by
the city, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed improvements for
a specified time period following their dedication.
   MAPS AND PLATS DEPARTMENT.  The Maps and Plats Division of the county.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  See FRONTAGE ROAD.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION.  A description of real property not by
reference to a lot or block shown on a recorded subdivision plat, but in terms
of a known point and the bearings and distances of the lines forming the
boundaries of the property.
   OWNER.  A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought
to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same
under these regulations.
   PERCOLATION TEST.  A subsurface soil test at a depth of a proposed seepage
system or similar component of a sewage disposal system to determine the water
absorption capability of the soil.
   PERFORMANCE BOND.  A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by
the city, guaranteeing the satisfactory installation of required improvements
within, or in conjunction with, a subdivision.
   PERSON.  Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or similar entity.
   PLAT, FINAL.  The final survey and engineering maps, drawings, and
supporting material indicating the subdivider’s plan of the subdivision which,
if approved, may be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY.  Preliminary survey and engineering maps, drawings, and
supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
   PLAT SKETCH.  A rough sketch map of a proposed subdivision or site plan of
sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
   RECORD DRAWINGS.  Complete set of improvement plans modified to reflect
changes occurring during construction
   RESERVE.  To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition
by the city (or other government entity) for public purposes.
   RESERVE STRIP.  A narrow strip of land between a public street and adjacent
lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property deed as
land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
   REVERSE CURVE.  A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape (see
Appendix E, Figure 5).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC.  A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or other unit of government for streets, alleys, and
other public improvements.
   SETBACK LINE.  A line that is roughly parallel to the front, side, or rear
lot line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side, or
rear yard (see
Appendix B, Figure 2).
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PRIVATE CENTRAL.  A sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
   SIDEWALK.  A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards of
these regulations, generally abutting or near the curb line of a street.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT.  The County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
   STOP ORDER.  An order used by the Administrator to halt work-in-progress
that is in violation of these regulations.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENTS STANDARDS
§ 156.20  INTERPRETATION.
   The design and improvements standards set forth in this subchapter shall be
deemed the minimal requirements for public health, safety, and general welfare.
Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to mean that the
subdivider may not construct additional improvements or improvements of a
higher quality.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.21  SUITABILITY FOR SUBDIVISION GENERALLY.
   Any tract of land that is unsuitable for development due to probable
flooding, poor drainage, rough topography, adverse soil conditions, or other
conditions which, in the opinion of the City Council will prove harmful to the
health, safety, and/or general welfare of the future inhabitants of that tract
and/or adjacent parcels shall not be subdivided unless the subdivider
formulates plans/methods which the City Council deems adequate to solve the
potential problems engendered by the adverse land conditions.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.22  REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   Reference monuments shall be set in accordance with “An Act to revise the
law in relation to plats,” ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1, as amended from time to
time. All lot corners shall be marked with iron pipes or pins.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.23  LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conformity with zoning.  All lots in the subdivision shall conform to
the minimum lot area and dimension requirements of the zoning district in which
the subdivision is located, except that:
      (1)   Residential lots which will not be served by both public sanitary
sewers and water supply shall be neither less than 200 feet wide nor less than
two acres in area.
      (2)   Depth and width of lots or properties reserved or laid out for
commercial, business and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for
off street service and parking facilities.
      (3)   Any land which is under water or located within the public right-
of-way shall not be counted in the determination of lot area.
   (B)   Multiple-frontage lots.  Generally, the creation of through lots
should be avoided where possible. Every lot having multiple frontages (such as
corner lots, through lots) shall be large enough to permit compliance with the
zoning district’s front setback requirement on every side of the lot abutting a
street.
   (C)   Length/width ratio.  The length of any lot shall not be greater than
three times the width of the lot, except those lots fronting on a cul-de-sac.
The depth of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac should not exceed 500 feet.
   (D)   Cul-de-sac lot width.  The minimum width required for a lot fronting
on a circular turnaround may be measured along a line parallel to the street
right-of-way line, at a distance from the street right-of-way line equal to the
depth of the required front yard.
   (E)   Lot remnants.  All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to
avoid the creation of nonconforming lots (see division (A) above).
   (F)   Relationship of side lot lines to street lines.  All side lot lines
should be at right angles to straight street right-of-way lines and radial to
curved street right-of-way lines except where a deviation from this rule will
result in a better street/lot design.
   (G)   Access.  Land shall be subdivided in such a way that each lot abuts or
has satisfactory access to a street which meets the requirements of
§ 156.25 and
156.26. Land shall not be subdivided in such a way that any other parcel’s sole
means of access to a public road is eliminated.
   (H)   Satisfactory building sites.  The design and arrangement of lots shall
be such that each lot will provide a satisfactory building site, properly
related to topography.
   (I)   Natural/historical features.  Whenever any tract is to be subdivided,
the most restrictive measures consistent with the anticipated development of
the tract should be taken to protect such natural features as tree growth,
wetlands, steep slopes, watercourses, and the like as well as any historically,
architecturally, or archaeologically significant structures/sites.
   (J)   Lot numbering.  Lots shall be numbered consecutively throughout all
phases or additions of the subdivision, and the same basic subdivision name
shall be given to all parts thereof.
   (K)   Flag lots.  Flag lots are permitted with the special approval of the
City Council in order to permit development of backland areas while still
maintaining their rural character. Requirements for flag lots are, at a
minimum:
      (1)   Minimum lot area must be at least twice the area requirement in the
zone district where located exclusive of the right-of-way connecting the lot
with the public road.
      (2)   Minimum front, side and rear yard requirements must be met on the
portion excluding the right-of-way.
      (3)   A minimum of 20 feet and maximum of 50 feet is required for the
right-of-way.
      (4)   Only one flag lot is permitted for each right-of-way.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.24  BLOCK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   On its greatest dimension no block shall be longer than 1,200 feet nor
shorter than 500 feet between cross streets.
   (B)   Subdivisions need not follow rectangular street arrangement. Courts,
dead end streets, or other arrangements, may be provided if proper access is
given to all lots from a dedicated street or court. Dead end streets shall not
exceed 1,000 feet in length. All dead end streets shall terminate in a
dedicated cul-de-sac having a minimum radius of 50 feet as measured along the
right-of-way line.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.25  STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally.  The arrangement, character, extent, width, and locations
of all streets within any subdivision shall be properly related to existing and
planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic
conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and to
the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
   (B)   Specifications.  The following minimum specifications apply
specifically to residential subdivisions. At the recommendation of the City
Engineer, higher standards comporting with accepted engineering practices may
be imposed for streets in nonresidential subdivisions.
Residential Subdivision Minimum Specifications
Type of street Minimum right-of-way Minimum pavement width Maximum/ minimum
               width                                       grades
Residential Subdivision Minimum Specifications
Type of street  Minimum right-of-way Minimum pavement width Maximum/ minimum
                width                                       grades
Alley           20 ft.               18 ft.2                Maximum: 12%
                                                            Minimum:  .35%
Marginal access 40 ft.               22 ft.3                Maximum: 12%
                                                            Minimum: .35%
Local street    50 ft.               32 ft.3,4              Maximum: 10%
                                                            Minimum: .35%
Collector       60 ft.               36 ft.3,4              Maximum: 8%
                                                            Minimum: .35%
1  As measured from back to back of curbs.
2  No curbs required.
3  Curb requirements may be waived by subdivision variance.
4  Reduced pavement widths may be allowed by a variance granted by the City
Council in accordance with §
156.82 if the subdivider agrees to provide excess off-street parking and/or
if the street is very short (less than 500 feet) and highly unlikely to be
extended.
 
   (C)   Circulation.
      (1)   The arrangement of streets within the subdivision shall provide for
the extension of existing arterial, collector and local streets adjacent to the
subdivision. Except for dead end streets, streets normally shall connect with
streets already established or provide for future connections to adjoining
unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable projection of streets in the
nearest subdivision tracts.
      (2)   Developers should be encouraged (but not required) to provide dual
ingress/egress to the subdivision from exterior roads for emergency vehicle
access.
      (3)   When access to a planned subdivision creates a traffic load that in
combination with the existing subdivision is greater than 1,000 ADT, the
primary access street or streets shall be made to conform to the requirements
for collector streets.
   (D)   Topographical considerations.  Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the natural topography, but shall not exceed the maximum
grade nor be less than the minimum grade indicated in division (B) above. All
streets shall be arranged so that as many as possible of the potential building
sites are at or above street grade.
   (E)   Alignment.
      (1)   Marginal access and local streets shall be laid out so as to
discourage use by through traffic. To effect a more desirable street layout,
the use of curvilinear streets, culs-de-sac, or U-shaped streets is encouraged;
a rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern should be avoided.
      (2)   In the arrangement of new subdivision streets, provisions shall be
made for the continuation of existing principal streets in adjoining areas, or
the proper projection of new streets onto adjoining land where adjoining land
is not subdivided.
      (3)   The minimum distance between streets, roads and lanes and other
access rights-of-way, except limited access highways and major streets, shall
be 250 feet. The minimum distance shall be measured from the edges of both
existing and proposed rights-of-way.
      (4)   Newly platted streets, roads, lanes or access rights-of-way shall
not create any double frontage lots, except as outlined in division (F) below.
   (F)   Limited access to area service highways.  Where a subdivision abuts or
contains an existing or proposed area service highway, the subdivider may be
required to limit access to the highway by one of the following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so that they back onto the highway and
front onto a parallel marginal access or local street (double frontage lots),
coupled with the installation of screening along the rear lot lines of such
lots;
      (2)   A series of culs-de-sac, U-shaped streets, or short loop streets
entered from and generally at right angles to the highway, with the rear lot
lines of the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the highway; or
      (3)   A frontage road separated from the highway by a planting strip, but
having access thereto at suitable points.
      (4)   Screening requirements shall be determined by the City Council.
   (G)   Dead-end streets.
      (1)   Temporary stub streets.  Streets shall be so arranged as to provide
the continuation of collector streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for adequate traffic circulation, effective fire and
police protection, and efficient provision of utilities. If a street must dead-
end temporarily because the adjacent property is undeveloped, the right-of-way
shall be extended to the property line, and no strip that would prevent
connection with future streets shall be reserved. A temporary cul-de-sac shall
be provided at the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
      (2)   Permanent dead-end streets.  The terminus of a permanent dead-end
street shall not be closer than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A
cul de-sac turnaround, having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet and a
minimum pavement radius of 40 feet, shall be provided at the end of every
permanent dead-end street.
   (H)   Alleys.  Alleys may be built in single-family residence districts at
the subdivider’s option. Alleys may be required in multiple-family districts
and in commercial/industrial districts unless other adequate provisions for
service access are made. Alleys should not intersect with one another nor
change sharply in alignment. Adequate vehicular turnaround space shall be
provided at the terminus of any dead-end alley. (See also division (B) above
and§
156.26.)
   (I)   Intersections.
      (1)   Only two streets.  Not more than two streets shall intersect at any
one point.
      (2)   Right angles.  Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at
an angle of less than 75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching
an intersection and shall be approximately at right angles with the
intersection for at least 100 feet therefrom unless the subdivider’s engineer
recommends, and the City Engineer concurs, that a lesser distance would be in
accordance with safe and accepted traffic engineering practices.
      (3)   Proper alignment.  Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersection on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 125 feet are prohibited unless the intersected street has
divided lanes without median breaks at either intersection.
      (4)   Rounded corners.  Returns at intersections shall be made concentric
and shall be rounded by a radius of not less than 25 feet at the right-of-way
line.
      (5)   Flat grade.  An area having not greater than 3% slope for a
distance of 100 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street shall be provided at the approach to any intersection.
      (6)   Maximum cross-slope.  The cross slope on all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
      (7)   Adequate sight-lines.  Whenever any proposed intersection involves
earth banks or existing vegetation on the triangular area shown in
Appendix C, Figure 3, such ground and/or vegetation (including trees) shall be
cut in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to the extent
necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      (8)   Distance between intersections.  No new street intersection shall
be closer than 250 feet to any existing street intersection on the same side of
the street.
   (J)   Horizontal curves.  Where a street changes direction (such as where a
centerline deflection angle occurs), a circular curve having the minimum
centerline radius indicated below shall be introduced. (See
Appendix D, Figure 4.)
      (1)   Local street: 75 feet;
      (2)   Collector street: 250 feet.
   (K)   Reverse curves.  Where possible, a tangent at least 100 feet long
should be introduced between reverse curves on local and collector streets (see
Appendix E, Figure 5).
   (L)   Dedication/reservation of right-of-way.
      (1)   When right-of-way must be dedicated. (This subsection does not
apply to private streets.)
         (a)   The subdivider shall dedicate at least the minimum right-of-way
indicated in division (B) whenever he proposes to build any of the listed
streets.
         (b)   Whenever the subdivider proposes to build any of the listed
streets, he shall dedicate right-of-way in excess of the stated minimum where,
in the City Engineer’s professional opinion:
            1.   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
adequate sight-lines; or
            2.   Due to the location of streams, railroad tracks, and the like
additional width is needed to construct bridges, underpasses, and/or safe
approaches thereto.
      (2)   When right-of-way must be reserved.  The subdivider shall reserve
right-of-way in the instances stated below. If the governmental entity
requiring the reservation has not purchased such right-of-way or acquired it
through condemnation proceedings within one year from the date the final plat
is recorded, the reservation shall cease to legally bind the subdivider.
         (a)   Whenever the state, county, or any township or municipality
within the county has gone on record as desiring to relocate or construct any
street or highway through or adjacent to any proposed subdivision, the
subdivider shall reserve sufficient right-of-way in the locations prescribed by
the governmental entity.
         (b)   Whenever a subdivision abuts an existing street that does not
meet the standards set forth in division (B) above, the subdivider shall
reserve sufficient right-of-way along the side of the street abutting the
subdivision so that, when additional right-of-way is acquired on the other
side, it will be possible to comply with the standards.
      (3)   Right-of-way not part of minimum setback.  As noted in§
156.23, any land that is dedicated or reserved for public rights-of-way shall
not be counted in determining compliance with the lot size and setback
requirements set forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (M)   Private Streets.  Hereafter it shall be unlawful to create any private
street unless a subdivision variance has been granted. To obtain such a
variance, the subdivider must satisfactorily demonstrate that there is
virtually no current or potential public interest in the proposed private
street. In every case, a variance to permit a private street shall be subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   Private streets shall be constructed in accordance with the Street
Improvement Standards (see §
156.26) of this chapter;
      (2)   That no additional subdivision shall be developed using such
private street as a means of access to a public street;
      (3)   A private street within a residential subdivision shall not connect
to more than one public street;
      (4)   That the final plat will show the location and width of such
private street; and
      
      (5)   That the final plat will include a certificate stating essentially
as follows:
I, _______________________________________, owner of tract ____________________
and the private road or street shown hereon, declare that said private road or
street is not dedicated to the public but shall remain private, to be
maintained by and for the adjoining lot owners until such time that said street
(s) is accepted by the City of Madison, Illinois.
Date: _______________   Signed:_____________________________
   (N)   Designation of private streets and disclosure. 
      (1)   For any subdivision having private streets and approved after the
effective date of these regulations, the subdivider must construct a sign at
all entrances to the subdivision, within 50 feet of the entrance, which shall
state: PRIVATE STREETS: MAINTAINED BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
      (2)   These signs shall be installed where they are easily visible to
anyone entering the subdivision and maintained in good order by the subdivider
until the last lot is sold in the subdivision and by the property owners
association thereafter. The minimum size for each sign shall be 12 inches high
by 18 inches wide, with three-inch high letters. The contrast between the
background and the lettering shall be sufficient to make the sign easily read.
      (3)   (a)   In addition to the signs, disclosure shall be made to each
prospective purchaser and purchaser within the subdivision, in substantially
the following form: THE STREETS IN THIS SUBDIVISION ARE PRIVATE AND ARE NOT
MAINTAINED BY THE CITY OF MADISON. THE OWNERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL REPAIRS
AND MAINTENANCE OF SAID STREETS.
         (b)   This disclosure shall be printed on all purchase contracts and
the prospective purchaser shall be made aware of this provision.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.26  STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally.  All streets and alleys shall be improved in accordance
with the standards of the Illinois Department of Transportation and the
requirements of this section. (See
Appendix F, Figure 6.)
   (B)   Pavement.
      (1)   All alleys, marginal access streets, and local streets in
residential subdivisions shall be paved across the entire width stated in
§ 156.25(B) (as measured from back-to-back of curbs) with a minimum of:
         (a)   Portland cement concrete pavement not less than six inches in
thickness reinforced with pavement fabric; or
         (b)   Bituminous aggregate material base course not less than five
inches thick with a two-inch bituminous concrete Class I surface; or
         (c)   Crushed stone aggregate base course not less than seven inches
thick with a three inch bituminous concrete Class I surface.
      (2)   On streets with heavier and/or greater amounts of traffic than
local streets (such as collector streets or streets in non-residential
developments), or where soil conditions are such that strengthened design is
indicated, complete engineering design of the proposed pavement shall be
provided by the subdivider’s professional engineer in accordance with the
standards of the Illinois Department of Transportation, subject to the review
and approval of the City Engineer.
      (3)   “Oil and chip” surfacing is not acceptable.
   (C)   Curb and gutter.  All streets shall be bounded by integral concrete
curb and gutters in conformity with the specifications illustrated in
Appendix G, Figure 7; provided that the City Council may vary this requirement
in accordance with §
156.82 if the subdivider is proposing to build streets with shoulders deemed
adequate by the City Engineer:
   (D)   Responsibility for maintenance.  The subdivider shall assume
responsibility for maintaining all streets (including the seeding; removal of
earth, crushed stone, or other debris from the pavement; curb and gutter; and
other drainage facilities) for the time periods indicated in§
156.67; that is, for two years after acceptance of improvements by the
appropriate governmental entity. The developer shall be responsible for
requesting acceptance from the appropriate governmental entity after he has
completed the improvements.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.27  SIDEWALK REQUIREMENTS/CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential development.  Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of
the street in all residential developments.
   (B)   Non-residential development.  In all industrial and commercial
developments, sidewalks, pedestrian ways, courts or courtyards must be adequate
to accommodate expected pedestrian movements. All such plans must be approved
by the City Council.
   (C)   Construction standards.  Sidewalks should be built in conformance with
the following standards unless other applicable city standards requiring higher
quality are in force and are effective relative to sidewalks:
      (1)   Relationship to curb.  The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall
either abut the curb or be located at least four feet from the curb to allow
sufficient space for tree planting. If the sidewalk abuts the curb, tree wells
shall be provided.
      (2)   Width.  Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide.
Non-residential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   Thickness of concrete.  All sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete at least four inches thick on a compacted subgrade.
      (4)   Grade.  No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than
5%. Any part of an accessible route with a slope greater than 5% shall be
considered a ramp and shall comply with the Illinois Accessibility Code.
      (5)   Crosswalks.  Crosswalks within the blocks should be improved with a
four-foot wide sidewalk from the back of the curb (or the edge of the pavement)
to the street side of the main sidewalk (see
Appendix I, Figure 9).
   (D)   When constructed.  Sidewalks shall be constructed within 24 months of
the completion of the streets.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.28  STREET NAMES AND STREET MARKERS.
   (A)   Street names.
      (1)   Every proposed street which is obviously in alignment with an
existing named street shall be given the same name as the existing street.
      (2)   The name assigned to any proposed street which is not in alignment
with an existing named street shall not duplicate nor be phonetically similar
to the name of any existing street irrespective of any difference in
designation such as “avenue,” “boulevard,” “drive,” “place,” and the like.
   (B)   Street markers.  At the street intersections within or abutting any
subdivision, the subdivider shall install street markers in conformity with the
following standards:
      (1)   Embossed steel U. S. Standard Street Name Signs, or the equivalent
thereof as determined by the City Engineer, measuring 6 by 24 inches shall be
used.
      (2)   Street name signs shall be mounted on four inch by four inch
creosoted wood posts or on two inch diameter galvanized pipes. In either case,
the support shall be set in concrete to a depth of three feet below the ground
surface and shall extend ten feet above the surface.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.29  INSTALLATION OF LIGHTING ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Generally.  Any owner, developer, contractor or subdivider shall
provide street lights or some other adequate night lighting provision as
reviewed by the City Engineer and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Street lights.  When a public street lighting system is proposed:
      (1)   The lighting intensity of each street light shall be equivalent, at
a minimum, to a 175-watt lamp or a 6800 mercury luminaire lamp.
      (2)   Each streetlight standard (post) shall be at least 16 feet above
ground when placed in the street right-of-way.
      (3)   Lighting shall be designed and maintained to avoid unnecessary
illumination of residence interiors.
      (4)   Light standards shall not be located within three feet of the
street pavement. Where sidewalks are required, street light standards shall be
located between the sidewalk and the pavement. Variation to this section may be
approved by the City Engineer.
      (5)   Street lights shall be provided at each intersection of streets
within a subdivision and at each cul-de-sac, but in no event shall there be
less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or portion thereof) of street frontage
between intersections, or between a street intersection and the terminus of a
dead-end street.
      (6)   The developer shall submit to the city a maintenance agreement, a
trust indenture, or other similar instrument setting forth the person,
corporation, trustees, or other agency responsible for the assessment as well
as the collection of monies necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
public street lighting system within the subdivision.
   (C)   Yard lights.  Front yard lighting systems shall be permitted in
residential subdivisions only. When a front yard lighting system is proposed:
      (1)   A post-style yard light shall be installed in the front yard of
every lot in the subdivision. The front yard light shall be installed when the
residence is being constructed.
      (2)   The lighting intensity of each front yard light shall be
equivalent, at a minimum, to a 100- watt lamp.
      (3)   Each front yard light post shall be at least five feet above
ground.
      (4)   Front yard lights shall be installed in a straight line parallel to
and within five feet of the street right-of-way line. Front yard lights shall
not be installed within the right-of-way of any public streets.
      (5)   Front yard lights shall be owned, operated, and maintained by the
individual property owners.
   (D)   Other.  The design and installation of other types of night lighting
systems proposed by the subdivider shall be reviewed by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.30  ELECTRICAL POWER, TELEPHONE, AND CABLE ANTENNA TELEVISION LINES.
   (A)   Service lines and connections underground.  Electrical power,
telephone and CATV (if any) service lines shall be installed underground
throughout every residential or commercial subdivision, and underground service
connections shall be provided at the property line of every platted lot.
   (B)   Within easements or public rights-of-way.  The conduits or cables
shall be located within easements or public rights-of-way in such a manner that
they do not interfere with other underground services; if the conduits/cables
are to be installed in public rights-of-way, the precise location thereof must
be approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.31  WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall be served by an adequate public water
supply system, private central system or individual water supply system.
   (B)   A water supply system shall be considered adequate if it meets the
requirements of the Illinois Department of Public Health and the applicable
building code, and requirements of the subsections below.
      (1)   Extension of public system.  Whenever the public water distribution
system is reasonably accessible (that is, when the distance from any boundary
of the tract to be subdivided to the nearest public water main with available
capacity does not exceed 600 feet), the subdivider shall extend the system
throughout the subdivision and provide every platted lot with a connection
thereto at the lot line.
      (2)   Private central systems/individual wells.  Whenever the public
water distribution system is not reasonably accessible (that is, when the
distance from any boundary of the tract to be subdivided to the nearest public
water main with available capacity exceeds 600 feet), then in accordance with
accepted engineering practices and the regulations of the Illinois Department
of Public Health, the subdivider shall provide individual wells or install a
private central water system so that an adequate supply of potable water will
be available to every lot within the subdivision.
      (3)   Distribution lines.  All water distribution lines, both in new
subdivision construction and those that are replacements of existing lines,
shall be at least eight inches in diameter, and valves of a make in conformity
with those generally used throughout the city should be used. The valves should
be so placed that in the event of any single break it will not be necessary to
shut-down more than 800 feet of pipe.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998; Am. Ord. 1574, passed 1-29-2002)
§ 156.32  FIRE PREVENTION AND SUPPRESSION.
   All proposed subdivisions should be adequately served by fire suppression
facilities A proposed subdivision shall be considered to be adequately served
by fire suppression facilities if it will be served at the time of the first
occupancy by an adequate water supply system capable of providing fire flow as
approved by the Fire Chief of the district having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.33  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   When/type required.  When a public or private central water
distribution system is provided in a subdivision or when existing distribution
lines are replaced, the subdivider or party replacing existing lines shall
install fire hydrants of the type approved by the Fire Chief of the district
having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Location.  The distance from any lot to a fire hydrant, measured along
the center line of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater than 500 feet.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998; Am. Ord. 1574, passed 1-29-2002)
§ 156.34  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Sewer and utility easements. Unless utilities are to be installed in
public rights-of-way, an easement not less than 15 feet wide shall be provided
where necessary for storm and sanitary sewers; gas, water, and other mains;
and/or for underground electric and telephone lines. (Normally, in the case of
abutting lots, (7 feet of the easement shall be on one lot and the other 7 feet
shall be on the abutting lot; but in any event the total easement width shall
be 15 feet.)
   (B)   Drainage easements.  Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall
be established in such locations as may be necessary to provide satisfactory
disposal of storm water runoff from streets, alleys, and all other portions of
the subdivision. The precise locations and minimum widths of such easements
must be approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Obstructions prohibited.  No person shall erect any structure, plant
any tree or shrub, or place any obstruction in any easement or within any
public right-of way, except at the property owner’s risk with respect to all
costs for demolition, removal, reconstruction, or replacement thereof.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.35  SANITARY SEWERS.
   All proposed sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the regulations of
the Illinois Department of Public Health and the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, and with all pertinent requirements of the subsections
below. Sewage collection lines shall not be smaller than eight inches in
diameter.
   (A)   When public system available.  Whenever the public sanitary sewer
system is reasonably accessible (that is, whenever the distance from any
boundary of the subdivision to the nearest public sewer with available capacity
does not exceed 600 feet), the subdivider shall extend the public system
throughout the subdivision and provide each platted lot with a connection
thereto at the lot line.
   (B)   When public system planned.  In areas where the public sanitary sewer
system is not reasonably accessible but where plans for the installation of the
system have been approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, the
developer shall provide sanitary sewers and lateral service lines in accordance
with such plans and temporarily cap them until such time as the public sanitary
sewer system becomes available.
   (C)   Private central sewage system.  Except as provided in division (D)
below, whenever the public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible,
the subdivider shall install a private central sewer system in conformity with
all applicable regulations of the county and the Illinois Department of Public
Health in effect on the effective date of this chapter or as amended hereafter.
   (D)   Individual disposal systems.  Individual sewage disposal systems, such
as septic tanks or aerobic treatment systems, shall be permitted only when the
public sanitary sewer system is not reasonably accessible. If permitted, all
individual sewage disposal systems shall be designed and installed in
conformity with all applicable regulations of the county and the Illinois
Department of Public Health in effect on the effective date of this chapter or
as amended hereafter. When individual sewage disposal systems are permitted,
the Administrator may require that the minimum lot size be increased above
usual zoning district requirements as necessary to meet the applicable
regulations of the county and the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.36  DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Generally.  Every residential subdivision shall be provided with
facilities which can satisfactorily accommodate the runoff incident to the ten-
year design storm. The drainage facilities in any commercial or industrial
subdivision shall be designed to handle the runoff from the 25-year design
storm.
   (B)   General design considerations.
      (1)   Underground/surface system.  The drainage system may provide for
the design storm indicated above by either an underground or surface drainage
system or a combination of both. If an underground system is utilized, it shall
at least accommodate the ten-year design storm; adequate surface drainage
(swales, ditches, and the like) facilities shall be provided to handle the
additional flow.
      (2)   Consistency with plans/regulations.  Drainage facilities shall be
designed in conformity with any adopted local, regional, or levee/sanitary
district plans and/or regulations.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas.  Drainage facilities
large enough to accommodate potential runoff from the entire drainage area
upstream from the proposed subdivision shall be provided in accordance with the
City Engineer’s specifications. Potential runoff shall be determined on the
basis of the maximum development of the upstream area that is permitted under
the current zoning district regulations.
      (4)   Effect on downstream areas.  The volume and rate of storm water
runoff leaving the subdivision shall not damage existing or potential
downstream developments or overload existing downstream drainage facilities.
Thus, if necessary in the opinion of the City Council and the City Engineer,
the subdivider shall install additional storm water drainage improvements in or
downstream of his or her subdivision that would alleviate any damages or
overload problems.
   (C)   Technical requirements.  Subdivision drainage requirements shall be
designed/installed in accordance with the following requirements in such a way
that natural drainage is impeded as little as possible during construction.
      (1)   Pipe.
         (a)   All pipes shall be sized according to the “rational method,”
“United States Geological Survey (USGS) small watershed method,” “United States
Department of Agriculture (USDA) soil conservation services method,” or other
recognized engineering method.
         (b)   Crossroad pipe shall meet the requirements of the “Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction” and the “Administrative Policy
Manual” of the Bureau of Local Roads and Streets, Illinois Department of
Transportation.
      (2)   Inlets.  Inlets shall be installed wherever necessary so that
surface water is not carried across any street or intersection, nor for a
distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. Inlets shall be built to the
specifications indicated in
Appendix H, Figure 8. Other inlet configurations in conformance with IDOT
standards are also acceptable.
      (3)   Storm sewers.
         (a)   Any storm sewer system shall be separated from and independent
of the sanitary sewer system.
         (b)   Storm sewers shall be built in accordance with current
engineering practices; they shall be at least 12 inches in diameter, and an
inlet or manhole shall be installed at each change of alignment or grade.
      (4)   Ditches.
         (a)   Ditches shall be designed and built to the specifications
established by the city unless the City Engineer approves an alternative
design.
         (b)   Adequate measures (seeding, sodding, riprap, paving, and the
like) shall be taken to prevent erosion of ditch banks.
         (c)   The natural drainage system shall be used as far as feasible for
the storage and flow of runoff, but no existing ditch, stream, drain, slough,
retention basin, or drainage channel shall be deepened, widened, filled, or
rerouted without the City Engineer’s written permission.
      (5)   High water table.  Whenever special drainage problems resulting
from a highwater table are encountered, the subdivider shall take reasonable
remedial/compensatory measures in accordance with current engineering practices
as determined by the City Engineer. Such measures might include anchoring of
water/sewer lines, subsurface drain tiles, added sub-base and/or pavement
thickness, and the like.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.37  GRADING, EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   All grading in streets and alleys shall be done in accordance with
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction adopted by the
Illinois Department of Transportation and all revisions thereto.
   (B)   Other site grading shall comply with the following regulations;
provided that the City Council may grant a variance from any or all of the
regulations in accordance with §
156.82.
      (1)   Subgrade.  Before grading is started, the entire area shall be
cleared of all tree stumps, roots, brush, and other objectionable materials and
of all trees not intended for preservation. Subsequently, the subgrade shall be
properly shaped, rolled, and uniformly compacted.
      (2)   Cuts.  In cuts, all tree stumps, boulders, and other objectionable
materials shall be removed to a depth of at least two feet below the graded
surface.
      (3)   Tree preservation.  Existing vegetation, especially trees having a
diameter of four inches or more when measured 12 inches above the ground,
should be retained and protected to the maximum extent consistent with
development of the site.
      (4)   Erosion control.  The design of every subdivision shall be
consistent with the natural limitations presented by topography and soil so as
to create the least potential for soil erosion. Soil shall be exposed for the
shortest feasible period of time. Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate,
mulching or other covering shall be used to protect exposed areas.
      (5)   Sedimentation control.  Appropriate devices, such as sediment
basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps, shall be installed and
maintained to remove sediment from surface waters leaving the subdivision.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.38  RESERVATION FOR PUBLIC PURPOSES.
   (A)   No land shall be voluntarily dedicated for parks, playgrounds, school
grounds or other public grounds unless the public authority which is to assume
the use and maintenance of such ground shall signify its willingness to accept
the same. No playground, planting strip, or other grounds shall be dedicated on
the plat for the exclusive use of the residents in the subdivision, unless
adequate provision shall be made for the maintenance thereof.
   (B)   When a school board, park board, municipality, or the county has gone
on record as desiring to purchase a parcel(s) in a proposed subdivision for a
school, park, or other public purpose, the owner or subdivider shall reserve
the parcel(s) for acquisition by such public entity for a period of 12 months
beginning on the date the final plat is recorded. If within this 12-month
period, an acquisition price cannot be agreed upon or condemnation proceedings
have not been instituted, the owner or subdivider may sell, subdivide, or
otherwise dispose of the parcel(s).
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
PLATS AND PLANS
§ 156.50  PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Before submitting a preliminary plat, the subdivider is encouraged to
confer with the Administrator to initiate pre-planning activities and to obtain
information and guidance before entering into binding commitments or incurring
substantial expense in the preparation of detailed plans, surveys, and other
data.
   (B)   A developer is encouraged to submit a sketch plan at this time which
should include the following information:
      (1)   The location of the tract in relation to the surrounding area.
      (2)   The approximate location of all existing structures within the
tract proposed to be retained and wooded areas within the tract and within 200
feet thereof.
      (3)   The names of the owners of all property adjoining the tract as
disclosed by the most recent Assessor’s record.
      (4)   All existing streets, roads, wet and dry weather water courses,
wetlands, wooded areas and other significant physical features within the tract
and within 500 feet thereof.
      (5)   Approximate location of proposed streets and property lines.
      (6)   Proposed street names.
      (7)   A rough sketch of the proposed site plan, showing lots and blocks
with numbers, utility easements, storm and sanitary sewers, drainage courses
and water mains.
      (8)   A north arrow and graphic scale.
      (9)   Contour lines, if practical.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.51  PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   Every person who proposes to subdivide any land within the city’s
subdivision jurisdiction shall comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions of the subsections below; provided that the requirements shall not
be applicable to minor subdivisions as defined in §
156.06 or land that is specifically exempted from such requirements by the
Plats Act, Illinois Revised Statutes,
Chapter 109, Section 1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   (A)   Information required.
      (1)   The developer shall submit to the Administrator such number of
copies of the preliminary plat as shall be required. The preliminary plat shall
be submitted after receipt of comments on the sketch plan if a sketch plan was
submitted.
      (2)   Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor or
professional engineer registered in Illinois. The preliminary plat should be
drawn to a scale of not more than 100 feet to 1 inch. If the plat is shown on
two or more sheets, an index shall be provided on each sheet. The preliminary
plat, together with the supporting data, shall provide all the following
information:
         (a)   On the plat itself:
            1.   A small key map showing roads, adjoining subdivisions, towns,
creeks, railroads and other data sufficient to locate the proposed subdivision
and show its relation to the community;
            2.   Name of the proposed subdivision;
            3.   Names and boundaries of adjoining subdivisions or owners of
record of adjoining tracts which, if not subdivided, shall be marked “not
subdivided.” For the purposes of this subsection, “adjoining” includes property
separated from the property to be subdivided by a street.
            4.   North arrow, graphic scale, date and contour interval;
            5.   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and engineer or
registered land surveyor who prepared the plat;
            6.   A statement to the effect that “this plat is not for record”;
            7.   Locations and lengths of the boundaries of the tract to be
subdivided;
            8.   Zoning district classification(s) of the proposed subdivision
and adjoining land (if more than one zoning district is involved, the dividing
lines must be shown);
            9.   Names of water district, sewer district or any other special
district in which the tract is located;
            10.   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-
foot contour data for land having slopes between 0% and 4%, five-foot contour
data for land having slopes between 4% and 12%, and ten-foot contour data for
land having slopes of 12% or more;
            11.   Locations, elevations, and direction of flow of major
watercourses, natural drainageways, and ponding areas;
            12.   Location of building setback lines;
            13.   Locations and dimensions of all existing and proposed lots
within the subdivision, with an identifying number for each lot;
            14.   Locations, right-of-way widths and names of all existing and
proposed streets and alleys;
            15.   Locations, widths, and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements and other public ways;
            16.   Locations, sizes, grades, and invert elevations of all
existing sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, drains, culverts, and the
like on the tract to be subdivided and on adjoining tracts if the facilities
are to be used or extended;
            17.   In the case of subdivisions wherein individual sewage
disposal systems are proposed, locations of all percolation tests;
            18.   Locations and types of all other existing and proposed
utilities;
            19.   Locations and dimensions of all parcels (if any) to be
reserved for schools, parks, playgrounds, or other public/semi-public purposes;
            20.   Locations of all mined out areas;
            21.   If it is planned to develop the subdivision as shown on the
tentative map in phases, then the proposed phases and their sequence of
construction should be shown on the preliminary plat. Approval of a phased
development is contingent upon the construction process not adversely affecting
existing phases; and
            22.   Such other information as may be required by the City Council
and such other information as was required in the sketch subdivision plat.
         (b)   Separate submission items:
            1.   Area in square feet of every proposed lot;
            2.   Ground water levels ascertained by borings and from recorded
ground water levels;
            3.   In the case of a resubdivision, a copy of the existing plat;
            4.   Where individual sewage disposal systems are proposed, the
results of soil percolation tests.
         (c)   Plat not accepted: The preliminary plat will not be accepted for
review unless it complies with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Filing and transmittal.
      (1)   The subdivider shall file ten copies of the preliminary plat and
supporting information with the Administrator. The Administrator shall retain
two copies at the City Hall and forward one copy to each of the following:
         (a)   City Council;
         (b)   Mayor;
         (c)   City Engineer;
         (d)   County Soil and Water Conservation District;
         (e)   Street Superintendent;
         (f)   Metro East Sanitary District;
         (g)   Police Department; and
         (h)   Fire Department.
      (2)   Comments regarding the preliminary plat must be filed with the
Administrator within 30 days after receipt. If written comments are not filed
within 30 days, the City Council will assume that there are no objections to
the proposed preliminary plat.
      (3)   Filing fee required; see §
156.84.
   (C)   Zoning related matters.  The subdivider shall verify with the
Administrator to determine whether the proposed subdivision is located within
the zoning district stated in the submitted information and whether the
subdivision complies with all applicable provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. If
the proposed subdivision cannot be built without a rezoning, special use
permit, or variance, the subdivider shall either first secure necessary “zoning
action” or apply for same at the time he submits the preliminary plat. In the
latter case, preliminary plat approval shall be conditional until the rezoning,
special use permit, or zoning variance has been granted.
   (D)   Review and action by the City Council.  The City Council shall review
the preliminary plat and, after consultation with the Adminstrator and other
technically qualified persons as necessary, shall either approve (with or
without conditions/modifications) or disapprove the plat within 60 days from
the date it was submitted to the Administrator or the date the last item of
supporting information was filed, whichever occurred later, unless the
subdivider and the City Council mutually agree to extend this time limit. The
City Council shall state its reasons for its action (including the nature of
any conditions/modifications) in writing, and attach the written statement to
the preliminary plat. One copy of the plat and attached statement shall be
returned to the Administrator and filed, and one copy shall be returned
promptly to the subdivider by first class mail. IMPORTANT: Approval of the
preliminary plat by the City Council does not qualify a preliminary plat for
recording.
   (E)   Effect of preliminary plat approval.  Preliminary plat approval shall
confer upon the subdivider the following rights and privileges:
      (1)   That the preliminary plat approval will remain effective for a
period of two years. During this period the subdivider may submit all or part
(s) of the preliminary plat for final approval. In the event that the
subdivision is being developed in phases, the applicant may, by written
permission of the City Council, postpone submission of the final plat of the
last phase of the proposed subdivision for not more than ten years from the
date of preliminary plat approval.
      (2)   That the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary
plat approval was granted will not be changed prior to or during the final plat
review process.
      (3)   That the subdivider may proceed with any detailed improvement plans
for all required facilities. Actual construction of such improvements may
commence prior to final plat approval, however, only if the detailed
improvement plans have been approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.52  IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Generally. 
      (1)   After the City Council has approved the preliminary plat, but prior
to the submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall file with the
Administrator:
         (a)   Three copies of the plans, specifications, and supporting data
for all improvements to be installed in or in conjunction with the proposed
subdivision; and
         (b)   Two copies of the approved preliminary plat and related
information.
         (c)   Filing fee required; see §
156.84.
      (2)   The Administrator shall retain one copy and promptly forward one
copy of each of the listed documents (such as, the plans, the approved
preliminary plat, and all supporting information related to either) to the City
Engineer and one copy to the Street Superintendent.
   (B)   Information required.  All improvement plans (black or blue line
prints) and supporting data shall be prepared, and signed and sealed, by the
subdivider’s registered professional engineer. The plans and/or the supporting
data shall provide all of the information listed below. (NOTE: All dimensions
shall be to the nearest one-hundredth (.01) of a foot and all angles shall be
to the nearest second.)
      (1)   Title page, with a key map showing the relationship of the
subdivision to the surrounding area including portions of the subdivision
previously developed plus adjacent streets;
      (2)   Title block showing names and address of subdivider and engineering
firm, as well as the engineer’s seal;
      (3)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
      (4)   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing volume,
section, page, or other reference;
      (5)   One or more bench marks, in or near, the subdivision, to which the
subdivision is referenced (elevation based on mean sea level datum);
      (6)   Existing and proposed survey monuments, iron pipes or pins;
      (7)   Proposed finished grades at the same contour intervals as required
for the preliminary plat;
      (8)   Plans, profiles, and cross sections of streets showing names,
right-of-way and pavement widths, elevations, paving details, grades, curbs and
gutters, catch basins, sidewalks and any other improvements to be constructed
within or in conjunction with the street right-of-way;
      (9)   Plan of any water supply system showing locations, pipe sizes, pump
stations (size, capacity and type), hydrant and valve locations;
      (10)   Percolation test data and locations of test holes if no public
sewer system is available or proposed;
      (11)   Plan of sewage disposal system showing pipe locations, sizes,
force mains, invert elevations, slopes, manhole locations, lift stations (size,
capacity and type) and points of discharge:
         (a)   If area is subject to flooding, any additional floodproofing
measures (such as anchoring, special pipe, ground water information, and the
like) shall be shown.
         (b)   If a private sewage treatment system is proposed, all
information required by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, or any
other governmental agency with jurisdiction, shall be submitted with the
improvement plans (such as treatment proposed, size, type, capacity, locations,
outfall points, and the like);
      (12)   Plan of storm water drainage system including watershed outlines
with drainage computations, locations of storm sewers, culverts, drainage
channels, swales, slopes, pipe sizes, invert elevations, underground drains,
outlet locations, and velocity reduction techniques;
      (13)   Proposed fill or other structure-elevating techniques, levees,
channel modifications, and other methods to overcome any flood hazards;
      (12)   Any proposed structural or non-structural measures to prevent soil
erosion and control sedimentation;
      (13)   List of all improvements to be dedicated to the city; and
      (14)   Cost estimates of all improvements to be dedicated to the city.
   (C)   Review of improvement plans.  The Administrator, the City Engineer,
and the Street Superintendent shall review the subdivider’s improvement plans.
Subsequently, but not later than 30 days after the improvement plans were
submitted to the Administrator, the City Engineer shall prepare a written
report stating whether he approves, conditionally approves, or disapproves such
plans, and the reasons for this decision.
   (D)   Transmittal of Engineer’s report.  The City Engineer shall submit four
copies of his or her report to the Administrator. The Administrator shall:
      (1)   File one copy at the City Hall;
      (2)   Forward one copy to the City Council;
      (3)   Forward one copy to the Street Superintendent; and
      (4)   Send one copy by first class mail to the subdivider.
   (E)   Effect of Engineer’s decision.
      (1)   APPROVAL means that the subdivider may submit the final plat for
approval and may proceed with construction of improvements based on such
approval.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL means that the subdivider must submit three
copies of properly corrected improvement plans to the Administrator who, in
turn, shall retain one copy and forward one copy to the City Engineer and one
copy to the Street Superintendent. Once such corrected plans are submitted and
approved, the subdivider may submit the final plat for approval and may proceed
with construction of improvements based on such approval.
      (3)   DISAPPROVAL means that the subdivider must rework and resubmit his
or her improvement plans as if they were a completely new set of plans. Until
he does so, the City Council shall not review his or her final plat, and
construction of improvements shall not commence.
      (4)   If the improvement plans do not substantially coincide with the
approved preliminary plat, then at the subdivider’s option a new preliminary
plat must be submitted in accordance with §
156.51 or the improvement plans must be revised.
   (F)   Inspection of improvements.
      (1)   While under construction.
         (a)   All materials and each part or detail of the work shall be
subject at all times to inspection by the City Engineer, or his or her
authorized representative, and the subdivider shall be held strictly to the
true intent of the specifications in regard to quality of materials,
workmanship and the diligent execution of the improvement. The City Engineer or
his or her representative shall be allowed access to all parts of the work, and
shall be furnished with such information and assistance by the subdivider as is
required to make a complete and detailed inspection and written report to the
Administrator.
         (b)   Construction inspections shall be made when required by the
building and other ordinances of the city relating to construction, before any
work has been done for which an inspection is required, and after 48-hours
notice to the City Engineer.
         (c)   All work which has been rejected or condemned shall be remedied
or removed and replaced in an acceptable manner by the subdivider at his or her
own expense. Upon the failure on the part of the subdivider to comply with any
order of the Administrator made under the provisions of this chapter, the
Administrator shall, after giving written notice to the subdivider, have the
authority to cause detective work to be remedied and charged to the account of
the subdivider.
         (d)   It is the intent of this chapter that first-class materials
shall be used throughout the work, and that they shall be incorporated in such
manner as to produce completed construction which is workmanlike and acceptable
in every detail.
         (e)   Insofar as practical and applicable, all items of construction
specified in this chapter shall be in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction adopted by the Illinois
Department of Transportation and all revisions thereto. Where such Standard
Specifications do not apply, appropriate specifications shall be prepared for
the subdivider by his or her registered professional engineer and reviewed by
the City Engineer.
      (2)   When completed.  The subdivider shall notify the Administrator, in
writing, that all work is completed and final inspection is requested. Final
inspection shall be made by the Administrator and the City Engineer, or their
duly authorized representatives, accompanied by the subdivider and/or his or
her engineer. When the final inspection shows the various items of construction
to be completed in a satisfactory and workmanlike manner and substantially in
accordance with the plans and specifications, the City Engineer shall so report
to the Administrator, in writing, and recommend that the subdivision and its
physical facilities be accepted by the city. Any items found to be deficient
during the inspection shall be pointed out to the subdivider, and final
acceptance shall be withheld pending correction of the deficiency.
      (3)   Filing of “Record Drawings.”  Upon the completion of approved
improvements, the subdivider shall file with the Administrator a set of
reproducible cloth or polyester base film positive and three blue or black-line
copies showing the as constructed details and any deviations from the approved
plans. The Administrator shall retain the original and one copy in the City
Hall and forward one copy to each of the following:
         (a)   City Engineer;
         (b)   Street Superintendent.
   (G)   Inspection fee required.  See§
156.84.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.53  FINAL PLATS.
   Every person who proposes to subdivide any land within the city’s
subdivision jurisdiction shall comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions of the divisions below; provided, that the requirements shall not be
applicable to land that is specifically exempted from such requirements by the
Plats Act, Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 109, Section 1 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   (A)   Technical requirements.
      (1)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor
registered in Illinois.
      (2)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the project area
portrayed on the approved preliminary plat. (See §
156.51(E))
      (3)   The final plat shall be drawn on a mylar-based material, or other
material of comparable durability, with black or blue ink, at a scale of not
more than 100 feet to one inch, where practical, provided that the resulting
drawing does not exceed 24 inches by 36 inches. If two or more sheets are used,
an index shall be provided on each sheet.
      (4)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot; all
angles shall be shown to the nearest second.
   (B)   Information required.  The final plat, together with the supporting
data, shall provide all the following information:
      (1)   Small key map showing the proposed subdivision in relation to
section or U. S. Survey lines and also showing the location of any municipal
corporate limits situated within 1 miles of the subdivision;
      (2)   Name of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   North arrow, graphic scale, and date;
      (4)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, and professional land
surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (5)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats within 300 feet to the
proposed subdivision by record name, plat book, and page number;
      (6)   Accurate locations and names of all existing streets intersecting
the boundaries of the subdivision;
      (7)   Lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles, or bearings and curve
data including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency, central angles;
numbers of each lot; and setback lines and dimensions; and in a separate list,
the area of each lot;
      (8)   Street and other public right-of-way lines with accurate
dimensions, angles, or bearings and curve data, including radii, arcs or
chords, points of tangency, and central angles;
      (9)   Street names, rights-of-way widths, and other pertinent data;
      (10)   Locations, dimensions, and purposes of any previously recorded or
newly created easements;
      (11)   Accurate metes and bounds description or other adequate legal
description of the tract to be platted;
      (12)   Accurate boundary lines of the tract with dimensions and bearings
and angles which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of
closure of not more than 1 foot in 10,000 feet;
      (13)   Location of monuments, iron pipes or pins;
      (14)   Locations and purposes of any sites, other than private lots,
which are dedicated or reserved; and
      (15)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenants in the deeds for lots.
   (C)   Certificates required.  The following certificates shall be executed
on the final plat:
      (1)   Owners Certificate.
   We, (      name      ) being the Owners of part of (Section or U. S. Survey)
described as (Description) have caused said tract to be surveyed and subdivided
in the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be hereinafter known as
(____________). The streets shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of the
public forever including the release and waiver of the night of homestead under
the Homestead Exemption Laws of the State of Illinois.
In Witness Whereof, we have set our hands and seals this _____ day of
_______________, 20______.
            ____________________________(Seal)
            ____________________________(Seal)
      (2)   Notary Public’s Certificate.
         State of Illinois   )
               )ss.
         County of _________)
   I,____________a Notary Public in and for____________ County, hereby certify
that               (owners)                 are personally known to me to be
the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and
that they appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they
signed and sealed the same as their free and voluntary act for the uses and
purposes therein set forth, including the release and wavier of the right of
homestead.
   Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of
__________________, 20________.
            __________________________________
                  Notary Public
      (3)   Surveyor’s Certificate.
   I,_______________________a registered Illinois Land Surveyor, hereby certify
that this plat is a correct representation of a survey made under my direct
supervision at the request of _______________ for the purpose of subdividing a
tract of land in the (give quarter section, township and range),
__________________ County, Illinois, into lots as shown. The land is located in
the City of Madison, Illinois.
         _____________________________
         Illinois Land Surveyor
         _____________________________
         Registration Number
         _____________________________
         Date
      (4)   County Clerk’s Certification.
   I, _____________________, County Clerk of ___________ County, Illinois,
hereby certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any of the real
estate included within this plat.
         _____________________________
         County Clerk
         _____________________________
         Date
      (5)   City Council’s Certificate.
         I, ________________________, Mayor of the City of Madison, hereby
certify that this final plat meets all requirements of the City of Madison’s
Subdivision Ordinance, and was approved by the City Council on __________,
20______.
         Attest: _________________      ___________________
            City Clerk          Mayor
              _  ______________      ____________________
            Date            Date
      (6)   Mined-Out Areas Certificate.
   I, ____________________, hereby certify that I have, at the request of the
Owners, reviewed the Mined-Out Coal Area Maps, as available from the Illinois
State Geological Survey in Urbana, Illinois, and hereby indicate that the
subdivided property shown hereon (is/is not) within a mined-out area.
            _____________________________
            Illinois Land Surveyor
            _____________________________
            Registration Number
            _____________________________
            Date
      (7)   Flood Hazard Area Certificate.
   I, ____________________, hereby certify to the best of my knowledge and
belief, that (no) part of the subdivision shown hereon is located within a
special flood hazard area, as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, and shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, Panel Number _______________
dated __________________, as Zone ______.
            _____________________________
            Illinois Land Surveyor
            _____________________________
            Registration Number
            _____________________________
            Date
   (D)   Filing and transmittal.
      (1)   The subdivider shall file one reproducible original and ten copies
of the final plat with the Administrator. The Administrator shall retain the
original and three copies in the City Hall and forward one copy to each of the
following:
         (a)   City Council;
         (b)   Mayor;
         (c)   City Engineer;
         (d)   Street Superintendent;
         (e)   Metro East Sanitary District;
         (f)   Police Department; and
         (g)   Fire Department.
      (2)   Comment regarding the final plat must be filed with the
Administrator within 30 days after receipt. If written comments are not filed
within 30 days, the City Council will assume that there are no objections to
the proposed final plat.
      (3)   Filing fee required; see §
156.84.
   (E)   Review and action by the City Council.
      (1)   The City Council shall review the final plat and, after
consultation with the Administrator and other technically qualified persons as
necessary, shall either approve or disapprove the plat by resolution within 60
days from the date it was submitted to the Administrator or the date the last
item of supporting information was filed, whichever occurred later, unless the
subdivider and the City Council mutually agree to extend this time limit. The
City Council shall not approve any final plat unless:
         (a)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat; and
         (b)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design
and improvement standards of this chapter; and
         (c)   To the City Council’s knowledge and belief, the final plat
complies with all pertinent requirements of state law; and
         (d)   One of the following conditions has been met:
            1.   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
approved and dedicated, and the subdivider has posted adequate security to
guarantee the satisfactory condition of all completed public improvements for
the time period stated in §
156.67(A) (see §
156.65(A)); or,
            2.   The subdivider has posted adequate security to guarantee:
               a.   The satisfactory completion of all required improvements,
and
               b.   The satisfactory condition of all public improvements for
the time period stated in §
156.67(A) (see §
156.65(B)).
      (2)   If the City Council disapproves the final plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects to which the final plat fails to meet the above
conditions for approval.
      (3)   If the City Council is satisfied with the final plat and with all
proposed improvements, conditions, and documents, including the performance
bond, if required, pertaining to the subdivision platted thereon, the City
Council shall, by resolution, approve the final plat and authorize the proper
officials of the city to sign the final plat for and in the name of the city.
The approval shall be attested by the City Clerk and the corporate seal placed
thereon.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the City Council’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and final plat shall be returned to the Administrator and filed, and
one copy of the resolution and the reproducible original of the final plat
shall be sent by certified mail to the subdivider.
   (F)   Changes in approved final plats.  Once a final plat is approved by the
City Council, it shall not thereafter be modified; provided, however, that
minor changes may be approved by the City Council upon written application to
the Administrator. Major changes require the filing of a new final plat and
complete re-review.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.54  MATTERS RELATED TO RECORDING.
   (A)   Generally.  The subdivider shall file his or her final plat with the
County Recorder of Deeds not later than 60 days after the City Council has
approved the plat. Two copies of the recorded document shall be filed by the
subdivider with the City Clerk within 20 days after the final plat has been
properly recorded.
   (B)   Unlawful to record unapproved plats.  The County Recorder of Deeds
shall not record the final plat of any subdivision located within the city’s
subdivision jurisdiction until the City Council has passed a resolution
approving the plat.
   (C)   Unlawful to convey lots without recorded plat.  As set forth in “An
Act to revise the law in relation to plats,” it shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, offer for sale, or lease for a period exceeding five years, any
lot in a subdivision unless the final plat thereof is recorded in the office of
the County Recorder of Deeds.
   (D)   Unlawful to record illegally conveyed lots.  The County Recorder of
Deeds shall not record any deed or lease involving a lot in a subdivision
unless the final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the City Council
and properly recorded.
   (E)   Unlawful to build on illegally conveyed lots.  The Administrator shall
not issue a building permit for any lot conveyed in violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Note.  See Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 109 (ILCS Ch. 765, Act
205).
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.55  MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The Administrator, at his or her discretion, may waive the
requirements for submission of all other plans except the final plat for all
minor subdivisions. For a subdivision to be considered minor, it must meet the
requirements identified in §
156.06.
   (B)   The following procedures must be met for all proposed minor
subdivisions:
      (1)   The Administrator may waive without a variance request the
requirement of submission of all other plans except the final plat. The final
plat of a minor subdivision shall comply with the procedural and substantive
provisions of §
156.53. In such cases, pertinent data required by the Administrator to
adequately review the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the
Administrator.
      (2)   If the requirement for submission of all other plans except the
final plat has not been waived, the applicant shall prepare and submit all data
required for a preliminary and final plat as identified in this chapter.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
ASSURANCES FOR THE COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.65  ASSURANCES GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall not approve any final plat of subdivision, and hence,
the final plat shall not be entitled to recording, until, with respect to all
completed improvements, all the requirements of division (A) below have been
met and, with respect to uncompleted improvements, all the requirements of
division (B) have been met.
   (A)   Completed improvements.
      (1)   All completed improvements have been inspected and approved by the
City Engineer; and
      (2)   All completed public improvements have been dedicated to the city
or other appropriate governmental entity; and
      (3)   The subdivider has posted adequate security with the city to
guarantee the satisfactory condition of all completed public improvements for
the time period stated in §
156.67(A).
   (B)   Uncompleted improvements.
      (1)   In accordance with §
156.66, the subdivider has posted adequate security to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all improvements shown on the approved improvements
plans; and
      (2)   The subdivider has provided sufficient information to show how all
improvements which are intended to remain in private ownership will be
perpetually maintained; and
      (3)   The subdivider has posted adequate security with the city to
guarantee the satisfactory condition of all public improvements for the time
period stated in §
156.67(A).
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.66  COMPLETION SECURITY.
   (A)   Security.  Security to guarantee the satisfactory completion of
subdivision improvements shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Form.  Security may be in the form of cash deposit, a performance
bond, a letter of credit from a bank approved of and insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (F.D.I.C.) (or any successor agency thereto), or
an escrow or impound account in a bank approved of and insured by the F.D.I.C.
All security shall be in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney. The City
Attorney, Administrator, or City Council shall have the right to reject any
form of security he or it believes would be inadequate (for any reason) to
guarantee the completion of all uncompleted improvements.
      (2)   Amount.  The aggregate amount of all security shall be equal to the
total estimated cost of completing all the uncompleted improvements. The amount
of a particular “item of security” (such as a particular cash deposit, bond,
escrow account, and the like) shall equal the estimated cost of completing the
improvements covered by such security. The cost estimates shall be made by the
subdivider’s professional engineer, but must be approved by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Posted with whom.  Security for improvements which are to be
dedicated to the city shall be posted with the City Clerk. Security for
improvements to be dedicated to some other governmental entity shall be posted
with the official designated by that other entity.
      (4)   Term.  The initial term of security for any subdivision improvement
within the city’s subdivision jurisdiction shall not exceed two years. If any
improvement which is to be dedicated to the city has not been completed by the
end of the two-year period, the Administrator, with the advice and consent of
the City Council may either extend the security for successive one-year
periods, or may proceed as per division (D) below.
   (B)   Sureties.  There shall be a surety for every performance bond posted
as security. No person shall be eligible to act as a surety unless he has been
approved by the City Council. Any surety who improperly fails to perform within
90 days after written notice from the City Council shall be ineligible for two
years thereafter to act as surety for any subdivision improvement within the
city’s jurisdiction.
   (C)   Release of security.
      (1)   The City Clerk may release up to 90% of the amount of security from
time to time upon written authorization from the City Council. The amount which
the City Council authorizes to be released shall be equal to the value (as
determined by the subdivider’s professional engineer and approved by the City
Engineer) of the completed improvement(s) covered by such security.
      (2)   Ten percent of the amount of eve security posted with the city
shall be retained until:
         (a)   The City Engineer has certified to the Administrator in writing
that all public improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
         (b)   All public improvements have been dedicated to the city or other
appropriate governmental entity; and
         (c)   The subdivider has filed the “Record Drawings” with the
Administrator.
   (D)   Failure to complete improvements.  If a secured improvement has not
been completed at the expiration of the term of the security (two years, or
longer if extension(s) has been granted), the Administrator, with the consent
of the City Council and the assistance of the City Attorney, may:
      (1)   Require the subdivider to submit new security in an amount
sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of constructing the improvements)
in question; or
      (2)   Require the surety or financial institution to pay to the city an
amount equal to the cost of completing the required improvement(s) or the
amount of the security not theretofore released, whichever is less.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.67  SUBDIVIDER’S MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.  Those improvements which are so designated on
the approved improvement plans. The subdivider shall adequately maintain all
public improvements until they have been dedicated to the city or other
appropriate governmental entity. Following dedication, the city or other
governmental entity shall assume normal maintenance duties.  However, if any
maintenance problem due to improper construction occurs within two years after
acceptance of the improvements then, in accordance with§
156.68, the subdivider’s maintenance security shall be used to correct the
problem.
   (B)   PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT.  The subdivider shall maintain all improvements
not designated “public” on the approved improvements plan until such time when
arrangements for their perpetual maintenance are made in accordance with all
applicable regulations of the Illinois Department of Public Health, Illinois
Commerce Commission, and Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.68  MAINTENANCE SECURITY.
   (A)   Generally.  To ensure the satisfactory condition of public
improvements for the time period indicated in§
156.67 (that is, two years after acceptance), the subdivider shall post
adequate security with the city or other unit of government to which the
improvements are to be dedicated.
   (B)   Form.  Security may be in the form of a cash deposit, a performance
bond, a letter of credit from a bank approved of and insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (F.D.I.C.) (or any successor agency thereto), or
an escrow or impound account in a bank approved of and insured by the F.D.I.C. 
All security shall be in a form satisfactory to the City Attorney. The City
Attorney, Administrator, or City Council shall have the right to reject any
form of security he or it believes would be inadequate (for any reason) to
guarantee the satisfactory maintenance of all the improvements in question for
the required time period (see §
156.67).
   (C)   Amount.  All security shall be in the amount of not less than $10,000
or 25% of the estimated cost of constructing all public improvements, whichever
is greater. The cost estimates shall be made by the subdivider’s professional
engineer, but must be approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   Defective improvements.  If at any time during the required time
period the improvements are found by inspection to be defective, they shall be
repaired/replaced at the subdivider’s expense to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer or other appropriate official. If the subdivider falls to pay such
costs within 90 days after demand is made upon him by the city or other
governmental entity, the security shall be used to make the required repairs/
replacement. If the cost of the repairs/replacement exceeds the amount of
security, the subdivider shall be liable for the excess cost.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 156.80  ADMINISTRATOR’S DUTIES.
   The Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to administer these
regulations in the manner prescribed by the City Council. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to the following specific
duties:
   (A)   To forward preliminary and final plats to the City Engineer and the
City Council;
   (B)   To transmit improvement plans to the City Engineer for review;
   (C)   To cause stop orders to be issued for five days when he is notified
that improvements are being constructed in violation of these regulations. The
City Council shall review the stop order within that five-day period to
determine whether or not the order should be maintained;
   (D)   When so directed by the City Council, to pursue actions authorized at
§
156.66(D) when a subdivider fails to complete required improvements;
   (E)   To forward requests for minor changes in approved final plats to the
City Engineer and City Council;
   (F)   To forward applications for subdivision variances to the City Engineer
and City Council;
   (G)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this ordinance
including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of completed
improvements (see §
156.52(F)), final plats, and variances ;
   (H)   To determine, after submittal of a sketch plat and supporting
materials, if a proposed subdivision can be considered a minor subdivision;
   (I)   To provide information to subdividers and the general public on
matters related to these regulations.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.81  VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Generally.  Any plat or part thereof may be vacated by the owner of
the tract of land in accordance with “An Act to revise the law in relation to
plats,” Illinois Revised Statutes, Chapter 109, Section 1 et seq. (ILCS Ch.
765, Act 205, § 1), as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Approvals required.  No instrument of plat vacation shall be effective
until it has been approved by:
      (1)   The City Council; and
      (2)   An authorized official or agent of any utility involved; and
      (3)   The District Engineer of the Illinois Department of Transportation
if any state highway or access to a state highway is involved.
   (C)   When lots have been sold.  If any lots in the subdivision have been
sold, the instrument of plat vacation shall not be effective unless it is also
signed by all the owners of such lots.
   (D)   Vacation of part of plat.  Any part of a plat may be vacated in a
manner provided for in this section and subject to the conditions therein
presented, provided such vacation shall not abridge or destroy any of the
rights or privileges of other proprietors in such plat, and provided further
that nothing contained in this section shall authorize the closing or
obstructing of any public highway laid out according to law.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.82  SUBDIVISION VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally.  Any subdivider desiring a variance from the requirements
of these regulations shall file a written application therefor with the
Administrator at the same time that he files his or her preliminary plat. The
application shall specify the variance requested, fully explain the grounds
therefor, and state the section hereof which, if strictly applied, would cause
great practical difficulties or hardship. The Administrator shall promptly
forward the variance application to the City Engineer and City Council for
review.
   (B)   Variance review by the City Council.  The City Council shall review
the variance application concurrently with the preliminary plat, and at the
same meeting at which they take action on the preliminary plat, they shall
decide on the basis of the standards set forth in division (C) whether to
grant—with or without modifications—or to deny the requested variance. A copy
of the City Council’s decision, clearly stating their reasons therefor and
exact terms of any variance granted, shall be attached to the preliminary and
final plats.
   (C)   Standards for variances.  The City Council shall not grant any
subdivision variance unless, considering the conditions to be attached to the
variance (if any), they determine that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
these regulations (see §
156.02); and
      (2)   Strict application of the requirements in §§
156.20 through
156.38 or elsewhere would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to
the applicant, not merely in added expense or inconvenience; and
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulty/hardship; and
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making; and
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
generally applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variance would be a
more appropriate remedy than an amendment (see §
156.83).
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.83  AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended or repealed by simple majority vote of the
City Council, but only after there has been a public hearing on the matter
conducted by the City Council.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.84  FEES.
   The subdivider shall pay the fees listed below to the Administrator at the
time he or she submits the last item of required information pertaining to the
plat/plan in question. The Administrator shall promptly cause such fees to be
deposited in the city’s general corporate fund.
   (A)   Preliminary Plat:  $100 plus $20/Lot;
   (B)   Improvement Plans:  $200 plus $30/Lot;
   (C)   Inspection Fee:  $2-% of Engineer’s Approved Cost Estimate, plus the
cost of materials and compaction testing;
   (D)   Final Plat:  $100 plus $10/Lot;
   (E)   Minor Subdivision:  $250.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Sale of lots without a recorded plat.  Any person who sells, offers
for sale, or leases for any period exceeding five years any lot, block, or part
thereof before the plat of subdivision therefor has been properly recorded in
accordance with “An Act to revise the law in relation to plats” shall be guilty
of a petty offense and may be fined $750 per lot, block, or part thereof so
sold, offered for sale, or leased (See Ill. Rev. Stats., Ch. 109, § 5) (ILCS
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 5).
   (B)   Destruction of monuments.  Any unauthorized person who knowingly
damages, destroys, or removes a stake, pin, monument, or other survey marker
shall be guilty of a petty offense and may be fined $750. (See Ill. Rev.
Stats., Ch. 109, § 10.1) (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 11).
   (C)   Other violations.  Any person who is convicted of any violation of
these regulations not listed in divisions (A) or (B) of this section may be
fined not more than $750. (See Ill. Rev. Stats., Ch. 24, § 1-2-1) (ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 1-2-1).
   (D)   Stated penalties not exclusive.  Nothing stated in the above divisions
of this section shall prevent the city from taking any other lawful action to
prevent or punish violations of these regulations, including, but not limited
to, injunctive relief, from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX A:  BASIC TYPES OF LOTS.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_1
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX B:  ILLUSTRATION OF A TYPICAL LOT.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_2
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX C:  SIGHT LINES AT CORNERS.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_3
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX D:  HORIZONTAL CURVES.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_4
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX E:  REVERSE CURVES.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_5
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX F:  TYPICAL STREET CROSS SECTION.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_6
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX G:  CURB AND GUTTER.
Click_here_to_view_image_of_Figure_7,_Lip_Curb
Click_here_to_view_image_of_Figure_7,_Vertical_Curb
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX H:  INLETS.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_8
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
APPENDIX I:  CURB RAMPS.
Click_here_to_view_Figure_9
(Ord. 1402, passed 2-24-1998)
CHAPTER 157: POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITE APPROVAL
Section
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   Application
   
157.03   City review
   
157.04   Public hearing
   
157.05   Public comment
   
157.06   Record
   
157.07   Site approval decision
   
157.08   Administration of fees and costs
   
157.09   Waiver of rules
§ 157.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.  In
addition, all other words used in this chapter shall have the same definitions
and meanings as found in the Act.
   ACT.  The Environmental Protection Act, ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 1 et seq.
(formerly Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 111-1/2, Section 1001 et seq.), as amended.
   AGENCY.  The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPLICANT.  Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation,
company, local government, joint action agency, or organization of any kind who
files with the city a request for a new pollution control facility site
approval pursuant to the Act.
   BOARD.  The Illinois Pollution Control Board.
   CITY.  The City of Madison, Illinois.
   GOVERNING BODY OF THE MUNICIPALITY or GOVERNING BODY OF THE CITY.  The Mayor
and City Council of the City of Madison, Illinois.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.  A site at which hazardous waste is
disposed.  HAZARDOUS WASTE is waste as defined in the Act.
   HEARING OFFICER.  The attorney, licensed in the State of Illinois, appointed
by the Mayor and City Council, whose function is to attend and conduct public
hearings on requests for a new pollution control facility site approval and to
make factual findings and recommendations regarding said requests to the Mayor
and City Council.
   POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY.  Any waste storage site, sanitary landfill,
waste disposal site, waste transfer station, waste treatment facility, or waste
incinerator. This includes sewers, sewage treatment plants, and any other
facilities owned or operated by sanitary districts organized under the
Metropolitan Water Reclamation District Act (ILCS Ch. 70, Act 2605, § 1 et
seq.).  The following are not pollution control facilities:
      (1)   Waste storage sites regulated under 40 CFR, Part 761.42;
      (2)   Sites or facilities used by any person conducting a waste storage,
waste treatment, waste disposal, waste transfer or waste incineration
operation, or a combination thereof, for wastes generated by such person's own
activities, when such wastes are stored, treated, disposed of, transferred or
incinerated within the site or facility owned, controlled or operated by such
person, or when such wastes are transported within or between sites or
facilities owned, controlled or operated by such person;
      (3)   Sites or facilities at which the state is performing removal or
remedial action pursuant to ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.2 or ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5,
§ 55.3;
      (4)   Abandoned quarries used solely for the disposal of concrete, earth
materials, gravel, or aggregate debris resulting from road construction
activities conducted by a unit of government or construction activities due to
the construction and installation of underground pipes, lines, conduit or wires
off of the premises of a public utility company which are conducted by a public
utility;
      (5)   Sites or facilities used by any person to specifically conduct a
landscape composting operation;
      (6)   Regional facilities as defined in the Central Midwest Interstate
Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact (ILCS Ch. 45, Act 140, § 0.01 et seq.);
      (7)   The portion of a site or facility where coal combustion wastes are
stored or disposed of in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 21(r)(2) or (r)
(3);
      (8)   The portion of a site or facility used for the collection, storage
or processing of waste tires as defined in Title XIV;
      (9)   The portion of a site or facility used for treatment of petroleum
contaminated materials by application onto or incorporation into the soil
surface and any portion of that site or facility used for storage of petroleum
contaminated materials before treatment. Only those categories of petroleum
listed in Section 57.9(a)(3) are exempt under this subdivision (9);
      (10)   The portion of a site or facility where used oil is collected or
stored prior to shipment to a recycling or energy recovery facility, provided
that the used oil is generated by households or commercial establishments, and
the site or facility is a recycling center or a business where oil or gasoline
is sold at retail;
      (11)   The portion of a site or facility utilizing coal combustion waste
for stabilization and treatment of only waste generated on that site or
facility when used in connection with response actions pursuant to the federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
(42 U.S.C. § 9601 et seq.), the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
of 1976 (42 U.S.C. § 6901 et seq.), or the Illinois Environmental Protection
Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 1 et seq.) or as authorized by the Agency;
      (12)   The portion of a site or facility accepting exclusively general
construction or demolition debris, located in a county with a population over
700,000 as of January 1, 2000, and operated and located in accordance with ILCS
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.38;
      (13)   The portion of a site or facility, located within a unit of local
government that has enacted local zoning requirements, used to accept,
separate, and process uncontaminated broken concrete, with or without
protruding metal bars, provided that the uncontaminated broken concrete and
metal bars are not speculatively accumulated, are at the site or facility no
longer than one year after their acceptance, and are returned to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw materials or products; and
      (14)   The portion of a site or facility located in a county with a
population over 3,000,000 that has obtained local siting approval under ILCS
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2 for a municipal waste incinerator on or before July 1,
2005 and that is used for a nonhazardous waste transfer station.
   NEW POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY.
      (1)   A pollution control facility initially permitted for development or
construction after July 1, 1981;
      (2)   The area of expansion beyond the boundary of a currently permitted
pollution control facility; or
      (3)   A permitted pollution control facility requesting approval to
store, dispose of, transfer or incinerate, for the first time, any special or
hazardous waste.
   SITE.  The location of a new pollution control facility site.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.02  APPLICATION.
   The terms and conditions of this chapter shall apply to any request for a
site approval application filed prior to or subsequent to its effective date.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.03  CITY REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a copy of a request for site approval, the City Clerk
shall notify the following city officials of such receipt:
      (1)   Mayor and City Council;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   Fire Chief; and
      (4)   Police Chief.
   (B)   The aforementioned officials and chiefs may attend the public hearings
and may ask such questions as are needed to assist each of them in reaching
their recommendations and/or decisions.
   (C)   The aforementioned chiefs are authorized to prepare and submit reports
and recommendations in response to the request for site approval.
   (D)   The aforementioned chiefs and consultants retained by the city, if
any, are authorized to present testimony at the public hearing as hereinafter
described.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.04  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   No sooner than 90 days but no longer than 120 days from the date of
filing of a request for site approval with the City Clerk, a public hearing
shall be held by a Hearing Officer.
   (B)   The governing body of the city shall designate a Hearing Officer for
the public hearing.
   (C)   The governing body of the city shall determine the date, time and
location when such public hearing shall be held, but in any event the initial
public hearing must be scheduled no sooner than 90 days but no later than 120
days from the date the request for site approval was filed with the City Clerk.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of such public hearing to be made as
required by ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(d), including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published twice in the
Granite City Journal/Press Record with the first publication being not less
than 14 days prior to the date of the public hearing. Said notice shall contain
the date, time and place of the public hearing in addition to the location
where the application is available for inspection and copying; and
      (2)   Notice to all members of the Illinois General Assembly from the
district in which the proposed site is located; to the governing authority of
every municipality contiguous to the proposed site or contiguous to the city,
such as but not limited to the County of Madison, County of St. Clair, City of
Granite City, City of Venice, City of East St. Louis, City of National City,
Village of Pontoon, Village of Brooklyn, Village of Fairmont City, Venice
Township, Granite City Township, Chouteau Township, Nameoki Township, Canteen
Township, and East St. Louis Township; and to the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency by certified mail, not less than 15 days prior to the date of
the public hearing.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall preside over the public hearing and shall
made any decisions concerning the admission of evidence and the manner in which
the hearing is conducted subject to terms and provisions of this chapter and
the Act. The Hearing Officer shall make all decisions and rulings in accordance
with §
40.01 of the Act and fundamental fairness. The Hearing Officer may exclude
irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony or other
evidence. No ruling of the Hearing Officer shall be appealable to the governing
body of the city.
   (F)   The applicant for site location approval shall have the burden of
going forward with evidence of the suitability of the site location for the
proposed use.
   (G)   The rules and procedures for such public hearing and the making of any
decision pursuant thereto shall be as follows:
      RULE 1:  All reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence or copies
thereof, other than testimony, which any applicant or participant who desires
to submit for the record at the public hearing must be filed with the City
Clerk at least five days before the public hearing and shall be available for
public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
      RULE 2:  The applicant and any participant shall submit a written list of
proposed witnesses to the Hearing Officer at least five days prior to the
commencement of the public hearing. Said witness list shall state the name,
address and occupation of said witnesses and shall contain a summary of the
subject matter and substance of the testimony of the witness.
      RULE 3:  Any applicant or participant may appear in person or be
represented by an attorney. Any attorney must file a written appearance prior
to the hearing and indicate thereon all participants represented. Any group or
organization that desires to be a participant shall appoint a spokesperson to
act on its behalf and must file a written appearance prior to the hearing.
      RULE 4:  The Hearing Officer is authorized to act and conduct the public
hearing on behalf of the governing body of the city.
      RULE 5:  All exhibits shall be marked and identified for inclusions in
the record but the weight of credibility and relevancy given to same shall be
determined by the Hearing Officer and the governing body of the city.
      RULE 6:  The schedule of the public hearing and submission of evidence
shall be as follows:
         First:  Testimony and cross-questioning of applicant witnesses. After
each witness testifies, an opportunity for cross-questioning of that witness
will be provided. Cross-questioning is governed by Rule 10.
         Second:  Testimony and cross-questioning of other participants in
support of application. After each witness testifies, an opportunity for cross-
questioning of that witness will be provided. Cross-questioning is governed by
Rule 10.
         Third:  Testimony and cross-questioning of participants in opposition
to the application. After each witness testifies, an opportunity for cross-
questioning of that witness will be provided. Cross-questioning is governed by
Rule 10.
         Fourth:  Inclusion in the record of written comments received prior to
or at the time of the public hearing.
         Fifth:  Rebuttal by the applicant to any presentations, comments, or
statements in opposition to the subject application.
         Sixth:  Adjournment, recess or continuance of the public hearing.
      RULE 7:  The Hearing Officer may recess or continue the public hearing as
is deemed appropriate in his or her discretion.
      RULE 8:  The Hearing Officer and the governing body of the city shall
consider any written comment received or postmarked not later than 30 days
after the adjournment of the public hearing. All such written comments should
be addressed to the Hearing Officer through the City Clerk, City of Madison,
1529 Third Street, Madison, Illinois 62060.
      RULE 9:  The governing body of the city, or any of them, may be present
during the public hearing and may submit questions to the Hearing Officer for
cross-questioning of any witness as provided in Rule 10. The governing body of
the city will review the complete record of the public hearing, including all
exhibits, documents, and written comments thereto, before making any final
decision on the application.
      RULE 10:  Any participant, or their attorneys, may conduct cross-
examination of witnesses. Any cross-examination shall be relevant to the
testimony of any witness and non-duplicative of other cross-examination
questions. Cross-examination of witnesses shall be permitted only during that
period of time immediately following each witness' testimony.
      RULE 11:  A record of the proceedings and evidence submitted in the
public hearing shall be made by a certified court reporter.
      RULE 12:  The decision of the governing body of the city will be in
writing and specify the reasons therefor, such reasons to be in conformity with
ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(a).  A copy of the final decision will be made
available without charge at the Office of the City Clerk.
      RULE 13:  These rules shall be interpreted liberally by the Hearing
Officer and by the governing body of the city for the purpose of determining
the suitability of the site proposed for such new pollution control facility
only in accordance with the criteria stated in ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(a)
and only for the purpose of considering the approval or denial of the subject
application. The Hearing Officer shall have the power to vary these rules and
deviate therefrom when deemed necessary by him or her in order to conduct the
public hearing consistent with fundamental fairness.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.05  PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   Any person may file written comment with the City Clerk (on behalf of
the Hearing Officer) concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site for
its intended purpose. The City Clerk shall accept and the Hearing Officer shall
consider any comment received or postmarked not later than 30 days after the
date of the last public hearing. In the event that the 30th day falls on a
Sunday or a federal holiday, the next day on which mail is delivered shall be
considered the 30th day for purposes of this section.
   (B)   Copies of such written comments shall be made available for public
inspection in the offices of the City Clerk, and members of the public shall be
allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment upon payment of actual cost of
reproduction.
   (C)   Any such written comment received by the City Clerk shall be made part
of the record of the public hearing as hereinafter described and the Hearing
Officer shall consider any such timely written comments in making his or her
report and recommendation concerning said request to the governing body of the
city.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.06  RECORD.
   The City Clerk shall be responsible for keeping the record of said public
hearing and certifying all copies of same.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.07  SITE APPROVAL DECISION.
   (A)   After the public hearing and any continuation thereof, the Hearing
Officer shall make written findings of fact and a recommendation concerning the
site approval request. Any findings of fact and recommendation shall be
supported by the record and shall be presented to the governing body of the
city within 45 days of the conclusion of the public hearing.
   (B)   The governing body of the city may consider as evidence the previous
operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of violations
of the applicant and any subsidiary, parent corporation, or subsidiary of the
parent corporation in the field of solid waste management.
   (C)   The governing body of the city shall consider the record from the
public hearing and the findings of fact and recommendations of the Hearing
Officer and shall make a determination concerning a site approval request
within 180 days from the date of the City Clerk's receipt of the site approval
request.
   (D)   No determination by the governing body of the city of a site approval
request may be reconsidered.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.08  ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS.
   (A)   All expenses incurred by the city in conducting the review of the
request for site approval, the subsequent hearing, the site approval decision,
and any appeal thereof shall be paid and/or reimbursed to the city by the
applicant as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon termination of any proceedings under the hearing process, a final
accounting and summary of all authorized expenditures and reimbursements shall
be presented to the governing body of the city by the Comptroller.
   (C)   Any and all costs or expenses incurred by the city under the hearing
process shall be paid by the applicant.
   (D)   In order to properly administer the payment and/or reimbursement of
any and all costs or expenses incurred with respect to the hearing process and
procedure set forth herein, the City Comptroller is hereby authorized and
directed to make demand for same as they are or are about to be incurred and to
receive and hold the funds for same subject to the review and approval for
disbursement of same by the governing body of the city.
   (E)   In order to expedite payment of all bills incurred as a result of
administering the hearing process, all bills and questions concerning billing
should be directed to the City Comptroller.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
§ 157.09  WAIVER OF RULES.
   In order to insure fundamental fairness, compliance with the Act, and to
protect the public interest, the governing body of the city may waive any of
the above rules by majority vote.
(Ord. 1670, passed 6-13-2006)
CHAPTER 158: CANNABIS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Scope
   
158.02   Interpretation of chapter
   
158.03   Definitions
   
158.04   Principal use standards
   
158.05   Underage person; prohibition
   
158.06   Purchase or acceptance of cannabis by underage person; identification
cards; warnings
   
158.07   Liability for permitting underage persons to possess or consume
cannabis
Use Restrictions and Licensing
   
158.20   Consumption at or in a cannabis dispensary
   
158.21   Consumption in parking lot adjacent to cannabis dispensary
   
158.22   Use restrictions
   
158.23   Lighting
   
158.24   Giving away of cannabis
   
158.25   License required
   
158.26   Term
   
158.27   Number of licenses
   
158.28   Application
   
158.29   Restrictions on issuance
   
158.30   Existing parking/loading facilities
   
158.31   Fees
   
158.32   Nature of license; transfer; expiration
   
158.33   Renewal of license
   
158.34   Change of location of business
   
158.35   Display
   
158.36   Hearing fees
   
158.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01  SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to medical cannabis dispensing organizations,
medical cannabis cultivation centers, adult-use cannabis craft growers, adult-
use cannabis dispensing organizations, adult-use cannabis cultivation centers,
adult-use cannabis infusing centers, adult-use cannabis processing
organizations, or adult-use cannabis transporting organizations within the
city.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.02  INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health,
safety, general welfare, and economic welfare of the residents of the city
shall be protected, and temperance in the use and consumption of cannabis shall
be fostered and promoted.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All cannabis uses found within the city are defined in this section.
Certain uses are defined to be inclusive of many uses. When a use meets a
specific definition, it is regulated as such and is not regulated as part of a
more inclusive use category.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis
cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
organization, dispensing organization or transporting organization.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder. No on-
site consumption is allowed.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION or INFUSER. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION or PROCESSOR. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds
to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION or TRANSPORTER. An
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business
establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      APPLICANT. Any person, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or any recognized legal entity that applies for a cannabis license as
set forth in this chapter.
      CANNABIS. Any form or variety of cannabis as defined by the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act and for purposes of this chapter shall include all forms
of cannabis, including cannabis contained within edible products.
      CANNABIS COMMISSIONER. The individual with the authority to oversee and
implement the provisions of this chapter, including the awarding of licenses.
The Cannabis Commissioner shall be the Mayor, or his or her designee.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person less than 21 years of age.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.04  PRINCIPAL USE STANDARDS.
   Where applicable, principal uses are required to comply with all use
standards of this section, whether a permitted or special use, in addition to
all other regulations of this chapter.
   (A)   Medical cannabis dispensing organization.
      (1)   In accordance with state law, medical cannabis dispensing
organizations must comply with the required spacing and location requirements.
Any subsequent amendment to state law that is more restrictive than this
standard will control.
         (a)   A licensed medical marijuana cannabis dispensary may not be
located within 1,000 feet of a pre-existing educational facility (primary or
secondary) and/or day care center.
         (b)   A licensed medical marijuana cannabis dispensary may not be
located within 500 feet of any place of worship, amusement facility, or park/
playground.
         (c)   A licensed medical marijuana cannabis dispensary may not be
located within a residential dwelling or within a residential district.
      (2)   An operation plan must be submitted, which includes the security
measures to be provided, the days and hours of operation, and a site plan that
describes exterior lighting and parking capacity. The following components of
the medical cannabis dispensing organization shall be provided to and approved
by the appropriate city departments prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy:
         (a)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, and
building code compliance.
         (b)   Security installations/security plan approved by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee.
         (c)   An operation plan must be submitted which includes the days and
hours of operation, a delivery plan, a sign plan, and a site plan that
describes access points and internal site circulation, exterior lighting, and
parking capacity.
   (B)   Medical cannabis cultivation center.
      (1)   In accordance with state law, medical cannabis dispensing
organizations must comply with the required facility design and spacing
requirements. Any subsequent amendment to state law that is more restrictive
than this standard will control.
         (a)   A licensed medical cannabis cultivation center must be located
within an enclosed, locked FACILITY, defined as a room, greenhouse, building,
or other enclosed area equipped with locks or other security devices that
permit access only by a cultivation center's agents or a dispensing
organization's agent working for the registered cultivation center or the
registered dispensing organization to cultivate, store, and distribute cannabis
for registered qualifying patients.
         (b)   A licensed medical cannabis cultivation center may not be
located within 2,500 1,500 feet of a pre-existing educational facility (primary
or secondary), day care center, day care home, a residential district, place of
worship, amusement facility, or park/playground.
      (2)   An operation plan must be submitted, which includes the security
measures to be provided, the days and hours of operation, and a site plan that
describes exterior lighting and parking capacity. The following components of a
medical cannabis cultivation center shall be provided to and approved by the
appropriate city departments prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy:
         (a)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, and
building code compliance.
         (b)   Security installations/security plan approved by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee.
         (c)   An operation plan must be submitted which includes the days and
hours of operation, a delivery plan, a sign plan, and a site plan that
describes access points and internal site circulation, exterior lighting, and
parking capacity.
   (C)   Adult-use cannabis.
      (1)   Purpose and applicability. It is the intent and purpose of this
division (C) to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate and
unincorporated limits of the city. Such facilities shall comply with all
regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as
it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder,
and the regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the
more restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
      (2)   Adult-use cannabis facility components. The following components of
the adult use cannabis facility must be provided to and approved by the
appropriate city departments prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy:
         (a)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, and
building code compliance.
         (b)   Security installations/security plan approved by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee.
         (c)   An operation plan must be submitted which includes the days and
hours of operation, a delivery plan, a sign plan, and a site plan that
describes access points and internal site circulation, exterior lighting, and
parking capacity.
         (d)   Compliance with all requirements provided in divisions (C)(5)
through (C)(9) below, as applicable.
         (e)   Compliance with all requirements of the State Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act.
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower. In those zoning districts in which
an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
         (a)   A facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of a pre-
existing educational facility (primary or secondary) and/or daycare center.
         (b)   A facility may not be located within 500 feet of any place of
worship or park/playground.
         (c)   A facility may not be located within a residential dwelling or
within a residential district.
         (d)   A facility may only be allowed within the city.
         (e)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
         (f)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit (provided by the city) with
the city affirming compliance with the city’s regulations regarding adult-use
cannabis facility components, adult-use cannabis craft growers, and all other
requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   A facility may not be located within 1,000 feet of a pre-
existing educational facility (primary or secondary) and/or day care center.
         (b)   A facility may not be located within 500 feet of any place of
worship or park/playground.
         (c)   A facility may not be located within a residential dwelling or
within a residential district.
         (d)   A facility may only be allowed within the city.
         (e)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, and no
dispensing organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises.
         (f)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
         (g)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit (provided by the city) with
the city affirming compliance with the city’s regulations regarding adult-use
cannabis facility components, adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations, and
all other requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center. In those zoning districts in
which an adult use cannabis cultivation center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of a pre-existing
educational facility (primary or secondary), day care center, day care home, a
residential district, place of worship, or park/playground.
         (b)   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
         (c)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit (provided by the city) with
the city affirming compliance with the city’s regulations regarding adult-use
facility components, adult-use cannabis cultivation centers, and all other
requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization. In those zoning districts
in which an adult use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of a pre-existing
educational facility (primary or secondary), day care center, day care home, a
residential district, place of worship, or park/playground.
         (b)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by
an infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. Facility may
not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by
the Act.
         (c)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit (provided by the city) with
the city affirming compliance with the city’s regulations regarding adult-use
cannabis facility components, adult-use cannabis infuser organizations, and all
other requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      (7)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of a pre-existing
educational facility (primary or secondary), day care center, day care home, a
residential district, place of worship, or park/playground.
         (b)   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. Facility may
not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by
the Act.
         (c)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit (provided by the city) with
the city affirming compliance with the city’s regulations regarding adult-use
cannabis facility components, adult-use cannabis processing organizations, and
all other requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      (8)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization. In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use transporting organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
         (a)   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of a pre-existing
educational facility (primary or secondary), day care center, day care home, a
residential district, place of worship, or park/playground.
         (b)   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the
tenant space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act.
         (c)   Petitioner shall file an affidavit (provided by the city) with
the city affirming compliance with the city’s regulations regarding adult-use
cannabis facility components, adult-use cannabis transporting organizations,
and all other requirements of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
      (9)   Additional requirements. Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business
establishments, as well as its environs.
      (10)   Co-location of cannabis business establishments. The city may
approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization with
an adult-use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use cannabis infuser
organization, or both, in an area properly zoned for said uses, subject to the
provisions of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the criteria within this
Code of Ordinances. In a co-location, the floor space requirements of divisions
(C)(4)(e) and (C)(7)(b) shall not apply, but the co-located establishments
shall be the sole use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)  Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.05  UNDERAGE PERSON; PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Prohibited. No licensee, or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver
cannabis to an underage person. No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining cannabis, shall sell, give or deliver the cannabis product to an
underage person.
   (B)   Underage person not allowed. No licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, shall permit an
underage person to be or remain on or in any portion of a licensed premises.
   (C)   Unlawful consumption, purchase or possession. No underage person shall
consume, purchase, smoke or have in his or her possession, cannabis, except for
prescribed medical use, with proper documentation. It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to permit an underage person, of which he or she may be the
parent or guardian, to violate any of the provisions of this chapter and shall
not provide cannabis to their children or in loco parentis except for
prescribed medicinal use.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)  Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.06  PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF CANNABIS BY UNDERAGE PERSON; IDENTIFICATION
CARDS; WARNINGS.
   (A)   Prohibited gift or delivery. No underage person shall accept a gift or
delivery of cannabis.
   (B)   Photo identification. If a licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, believes or has
reason to believe that a sale or delivery of cannabis is prohibited because of
the insufficient age of the prospective purchaser, he or she shall, before
making such sale or delivery, demand presentation of adequate written evidence
of identity, including, but not limited to, a photograph, and of the fact that
the purchaser or recipient is over the age of 21 years (referred to herein as
"identification card"), issued by a federal, state, county, or municipal
government or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a
motor vehicle operations license or identification card issued to a member of
the Armed Services.
   (C)   No sale. If a licensee, or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, believes or has reason to
believe that the ultimate recipient of cannabis to be purchased is of
insufficient age or is using a forged or false identification card, he or she
shall not make the sale.
   (D)   Forged or false identification. No person shall transfer, alter or
deface an identification card; use the identification card of another; carry or
use a false or forged identification card; or obtain an identification card by
means of false information. No person shall purchase, accept the delivery, or
have the possession of cannabis in violation of this section.
   (E)   Warnings displayed.
      (1)   Every cannabis dispensary shall display, in a prominent place or
places, a printed card which shall read substantially as follows:
      WARNING TO ALL PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE (21) YEARS, YOU ARE
SUBJECT TO A CRIMINAL ARREST AND FINE IF YOU PURCHASE, OR ACCEPT A GIFT OF,
CANNABIS OR HAVE CANNABIS IN YOUR POSSESSION, OR IF YOU HAVE IN YOUR POSSESSION
A FALSE, FORGED, ALTERED OR DEFACED IDENTIFICATION CARD WHICH MISREPRESENTS
YOUR AGE.
      (2)   The Cannabis Commissioner reserves the right to determine how large
the warning card(s) will be, where the warning card(s) is/are placed, and any
other requirements of the warning card(s) to ensure all consumers are made
aware of the warning.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)  Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.07  LIABILITY FOR PERMITTING UNDERAGE PERSONS TO POSSESS OR CONSUME
CANNABIS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises in the
city to permit an underage person to possess or consume cannabis on the
premises, except for prescribed medical use with proper documentation.
   (B)   No person shall permit a gathering at their residence, or on property
owned by the person or under the person's control, where any one or more
underage persons are in possession of or are consuming any cannabis. No person
that believes an underage person has consumed cannabis shall allow that
underage person to leave a residence, or property owned by the person, or under
the person's control, except when the underage person is accompanied by the
underage person's parent or legal guardian. For the purpose of this section
where the residence, or a property, has a tenant or lessee, there is a
rebuttable presumption that the residence, or property, is occupied or
controlled by the tenant or lessee. There is a rebuttable presumption that the
owner or occupant of said residence, or property, permitted such conduct,
unless the contrary is established by a preponderance of the evidence, even if
said owner or occupant is not on the premises at the time of the violation.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
USE RESTRICTIONS AND LICENSING
§ 158.20  CONSUMPTION AT OR IN A CANNABIS DISPENSARY.
   Cannabis may not be consumed within a cannabis dispensary for any purpose
and in any form, including but not limited to samples, tastings, edible
products or byproducts or by smoking.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.21  CONSUMPTION IN PARKING LOT ADJACENT TO CANNABIS DISPENSARY.
   (A)   In parking lots. Cannabis may not be consumed in any parking lot or
open area adjacent to any cannabis dispensary for any purpose and in any form,
including but not limited to samples, tastings, edible products or byproducts
or by smoking.
   (B)   Responsibility of owner and/or manager. No licensee, or officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, shall
permit the consumption of cannabis in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Posting of signs.
      (1)   All cannabis dispensaries must post the following sign(s) on the
property where the establishment is located:
         PURSUANT TO THE CITY OF MADISON CODE, IT IS UNLAWFUL TO CONSUME ANY
CANNABIS IN ANY PARKING LOT OR OPEN AREA ADJACENT TO THIS CANNABIS DISPENSARY.
      (2)   The Cannabis Commissioner reserves the right to determine how large
the sign(s) will be, where the sign(s) is/are placed, and any other
requirements of the sign(s) to ensure all consumers are made aware of the
applicable law.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.22  USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Hours of operation. Every cannabis dispensary located within the
district shall limit its hours of operation from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Enclosed buildings. All cannabis dispensaries service and storage
activities shall be conducted within an enclosed buildings.
   (C)   Waste containers. All waste, refuse or unwanted materials generated by
any establishment located within this district shall be stored in tightly-
covered containers placed in a visually screened area and must conform to the
city’s ordinance of disposal and pickup.
   (D)   Screening.
      (1)   Screening shall conform to requirements of Article 5, Section 5-300
except as specifically modified by this section.
      (2)   Screening for purposes of said district, shall be defined as a
wall, solid fence eight feet (+/- 1/2 foot) in height (finished side of fence
in view of public) or closely planted shrubbery at least eight feet (+/- 1/
2 foot) high.
      (3)   Prior to installation, screening shall be reviewed and approved by
the Zoning Administrator in accordance with a prescribed check list.
      (4)   No screening is permitted in the area between the front building
line and the sidewalk or curb.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)  Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.23  LIGHTING.
   Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking area shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the parking area boundary
lines to the greatest extent practical.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.24  GIVING AWAY OF CANNABIS.
   No licensee, individual, partnership or corporation shall give away or
provide samples or tastings of any cannabis for retail sales or other purposes
or in connection with the promotion of the cannabis dispensary.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.25  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale or possess with intention to sell at
retail any cannabis without a cannabis retail sales license issued by the city
pursuant to this chapter, in addition to a license issued by the State of
Illinois. No person shall sell at retail or offer for sale at retail in the
city cannabis in any form, in violation of the terms and conditions of the
license or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)  Penalty, see §
158.99
§ 158.26  TERM.
   Each cannabis dispensary shall have a license issued by the state to sell
retail cannabis prior to applying for a city cannabis dispensary license. Each
cannabis dispensary shall have a city cannabis retail sales license pursuant to
this chapter and the license shall be an annual license and shall expire on
January 2 next following its issuance and every year thereafter requiring an
application for renewal and approval.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.27  NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   By separate ordinance, the City Council may set a limitation upon the
number of licenses to sell cannabis at retail. As licenses are revoked, expire
without renewal, or for any reason cease to exist, the total number of licenses
for each classification shall automatically be reduced until the total number
of licenses issued for each class shall not exceed the number authorized by the
City Council.
   (B)   By separate resolution, the City Council may authorize the Cannabis
Commissioner to issue a license to sell cannabis at retail to a licensee, but
only if City Council has determined a license may be awarded pursuant to State
of Illinois law and all of the requirements, rules and regulations of this
chapter.
   (C)   All potential licensees shall apply for and must receive a special use
permit from the city for any location where the potential licensee proposes to
sell cannabis at retail. The special use permit must be reviewed by the City
Combined Planning and Zoning Board and approved by the City Council. Special
Use permits shall only be considered for areas zoned as follows:
      (1)   Use permitted as a special use (SUP): B-2, B-3, B-4, I-1;
      (2)   Use permitted as a planned use (PUD): B-3.
   (D)   The following limits are established on the number of licenses to sell
cannabis at retail in the city:
      (1)   Class A: 1.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.28  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for a cannabis retail sales license shall be made to the
Cannabis Commissioner, on a form provided by the Cannabis Commissioner. Each
such application shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or by a duly
authorized officer of an entity, verified by oath or affidavit. In addition to
the provided form, the licensee applicant shall be responsible for submitting
any additional information that may be required by the Cannabis Commissioner.
The Cannabis Commissioner reserves the right to refuse to accept any
application if it is not completed to the satisfaction of the Cannabis
Commissioner.
   (B)   In addition to the application, the applicant or the managing partners
or officers of the owning entity of the applicant and the on-site managers of
the applicant must undergo a criminal background check, including but not
limited to finger printing under the direction of the Chief of Police or his or
her designee.
   (C)   An affidavit, executed by a duly authorized officer or managing
partner, stating that all members, officers, managers, general partners,
directors, stockholders or limited partners owning 5% or more of the legal
entity applying for a city cannabis license have no criminal convictions in any
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.29  RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to an individual or entity declared
ineligible for a license under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, as amended
from time to time, or to a person, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, or legal entity of any kind not eligible for an Illinois cannabis
dispensary license.
   (B)   No cannabis dispensary license shall be issued to any location within
1,000 feet of any school, park, church, or any other location if said location
would violate any city zoning ordinances.
   (C)   No cannabis dispensary license shall be issued to any location that
would violate city zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.30  EXISTING PARKING/LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the same
lot as the use served shall not be reduced, or if already less than, shall not
be further reduced below the requirements and standards for similar new
structures or uses.
   (B)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored, but
additional parking/loading facilities need not be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified through
addition of dwelling units, increased floor area, greater seating capacity,
etc., additional parking and loading commensurate in use-intensity shall be
provided.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, parking loading facilities shall be provided as required herein for such
new use.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.31  FEES.
   The license fee for city cannabis licenses shall be $5,000 annually, paid at
the time of renewal on or before January 2 of each year, regardless of what
month the license was initially issued.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.32  NATURE OF LICENSE; TRANSFER; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   A cannabis retail sales license shall be purely a privilege, good for
a period not to exceed one  year unless revoked according to law, and shall not
constitute property, or be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, or
be alienable, assignable, transferable or subject to encumberment, and shall
cease upon the death, or insolvency or cessation of operation of the licensee
or the filing for bankruptcy protection.
   (B)   A licensee shall not enter into any agreement with a person or entity,
whether it be a lease, management or other agreement, that would allow the
person or entity to utilize the license in the operation of the person's or
entity's business wherein the licensee maintains an interest of any kind
whatsoever in the license.
   (C)   If a licensee's business is inactive for a period of three consecutive
months, the license shall become null and void. For the purposes of this
section, the word INACTIVE shall mean that the business has ceased operating or
is not open to the public.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.33  RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any cannabis retail sales license may be renewed at the expiration of
its term, provided the applicant is qualified to receive a new cannabis retail
sales license under the then current requirements and the premises for which
such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purposes; and further,
that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prohibit the Mayor and City Council from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the jurisdiction of the
Mayor and the City Council.
   (B)   The renewal application shall be on a form prescribed by the Cannabis
Commissioner. Additionally, all licensees or an authorized representative
thereof, are required to attend an annual meeting convened by the Cannabis
Commissioner.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.34  CHANGE OF LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   A cannabis retail sales license shall permit the sale of cannabis only in
the premises described in the application and license. Any change from the
original application as to location shall require re-application
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.35  DISPLAY.
   Each licensee shall display the cannabis retail sales license in plain view
in a conspicuous place on the premises.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
158.36  HEARING FEES.
   In the event the Cannabis Commissioner issues a notice to the licensee to
convene a hearing regarding an alleged violation or violation of local, state,
or federal law; any and all fees and costs associated with said hearing or in
the preparation thereof, shall be paid by the licensee, including but not
limited to attorney's fees for a legal advisor to the Cannabis Commissioner and
for a prosecutor and for related costs including but not limited to the cost of
the court reporter.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
§ 158.99  PENALTY.
   The Cannabis Commissioner may suspend or revoke any license issued, if it is
determined by the Cannabis Commissioner, subsequent to a hearing in accordance
with the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, that the licensee has violated any
ordinance of the city, state statute, or federal law pertaining to the
operation of the licensee's business or the premises where it is located, or
any regulation or rule that has been established by the Cannabis Commissioner,
which is not inconsistent with state statute. In addition to suspension or
revocation, the Cannabis Commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for such
violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for a first violation,
$1,500 for a second violation within a 12-month period and $2,500 for a third
or subsequent violation within a 12- month period. Each and every day which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 1842, passed 2-4-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   DEMOLITIONS AND REPAIRS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS; REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
V.   EASEMENTS AND ENCROACHMENTS
      
VI.   STREET AND SIDEWALK CLOSINGS AND VACATIONS
      
VII.   STREET RENAMINGS
      
VIII.   CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
      
IX.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
X.   TAX INCREMENT DEVELOPMENT AREAS
      
XI.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
      
XII.   DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
TABLE I:  DEMOLITIONS AND REPAIRS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
R. 01-05 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 913 Jefferson Street
R. 01-06 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 918 Jackson Street
R. 01-07 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 909 West Washington Street
R. 01-08 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 101 Booker Street
R. 01-09 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 920 Washington Avenue
R. 01-10 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 914 Washington Avenue
R. 01-11 2-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 1431 Second Street
R. 01-16 3-13-2001   Demolition or repair of 1647 Market Street
R. 01-19 4-24-2001   Demolition or repair of 1605 4th Street
R. 01-21 4-24-2001   Demolition or repair of 914 Grand Avenue
R. 01-27 6-5-2001    Demolition or repair of 905 Madison Avenue
R. 01-28 6-5-2001    Demolition or repair of 1937 5th Street
R. 01-29 6-5-2001    Demolition or repair of 200 McCambridge C-3
R. 01-30 6-5-2001    Demolition or repair of 1524 2nd Street
R. 01-31 6-5-2001    Demolition or repair of 1900 3rd Street
R. 01-35 6-19-2001   Demolition of repair of 201-03 Madison Avenue
R. 01-36 6-19-2001   Demolition or repair of 205-07 Madison Avenue
R. 01-37 6-19-2001   Demolition or repair of 210 Madison Avenue
R. 01-43 7-17-2001   Demolition or repair of 1031 Alton Avenue
R. 01-50 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1424 3rd Street
R. 01-51 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1412 3rd Street
R. 01-52 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1540 7th Street
R. 01-54 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1910 Skeen Street
R. 01-55 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1631 2nd Street
R. 01-56 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 810 Franklin Street
R. 01-57 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1646 5th Street
R. 01-58 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1801 Market Street
R. 01-59 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1657 Rear 2nd Street
R. 01-60 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1657 2nd Street
R. 01-61 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1643 2nd Street
R. 01-62 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1636 Rear 2nd Street
R. 01-63 9-11-2001   Demolition or repair of 1636 2nd Street
R. 01-65 9-25-2001   Demolition or repair of 1433 3rd Street
 
TABLE II:  ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
175      5-6-1909    Annexation of certain territory
648      5-8-1951    Annexation of a tract of land owned by School District
                     #127
743      1-24-1961   Annexation of certain territory
776      11-10-1964  Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
805      2-20-1968   Annexation of the south side of Harris Street
845      - -         Proposed annexation of a 333-acre tract of land
962      - -         Annexation of certain territory
980      - -         Annexation of certain tracts of land
1047     - -         Annexation of certain tracts of land
1050     - -         Annexation of certain tracts of land
1054     - -         Annexation of certain tracts of land
1055     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1058     - -         Annexation of certain tracts of land
1060     - -         Annexation of a certain tract of land
1061     - -         Annexation of a certain tract of land
1064     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1065     - -         Annexation of 60 acres or surrounded territory
1066     - -         Annexation of the Steele property
1068     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1071     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1072     - -         Annexation of Mad Auto Wrecking, Inc., property #2
1073     - -         Annexation of Metro-East Sanitary District property #1
1074     - -         Annexation of Milam Corporation property
1075     - -         Annexation of Pilot Oil Corporation property
1076     - -         Annexation of Gateway Midstate Truck Plaza, Inc., property
1077     - -         Annexation of Metro-East Sanitary District property #2
1080     - -         Annexation of a certain tract of land
1084     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1115     - -         Annexation of Kenneth Mueller property
1119     - -         Annexation of KPNX Broadcasting Company property
1128     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1134     - -         Annexation of additional property to Ward 3 and fixing
                     boundaries
1138     - -         Amendment and re-adoption; annexation of certain
                     uninhabited and unincorporated territory
1141     - -         Annexation of Quiktrip Corporation property
1166     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1167     - -         Annexation of certain inhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1168     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1169     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1170     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1171     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1174     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1175     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1177     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1178     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1179     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1180     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1185     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1189     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1190     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1191     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1192     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1194     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1195     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1196     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1197     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1200     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1266     - -         Detachment of property known as the Franke property
1267     - -         Detachment of property known as the Milam Corporation
                     property
1263     - -         Detachment of property known as the Conrail property
1286     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1293     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1294     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1295     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1296     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1297     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1298     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1299     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1305     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1306     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1307     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1325     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1326     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1327     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1328     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1329     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1330     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1331     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1332     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1333     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1362     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1363     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1364     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1365     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1367     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1368     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1372     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1373     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1376     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1377     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1381     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1382     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1383     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1384     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1403     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1404     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1405     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1412     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1413     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1414     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1426     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1427     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1428     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1431     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1432     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1433     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1434     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1435     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1443     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1444     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1445     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1446     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1452     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1455     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1459     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1485     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
                     Annexation, exclusion or disconnection of certain
1492     - -         uninhabited and unincorporated territory; settlement
                     agreement
1495     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1496     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1501     - -         Annexation of under 60 acres of surrounded territory
1502     - -         Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory
1503     - -         Annexation of 60 acres of surrounded territory
1537     - -         Annexation of a certain 42 parcels, Chouteau Island, FEMA
                     flood buy-out program
1541     - -         Annexation of a certain four parcels, Gabaret/Choutea
                     Island, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers property
1565     10-23-2001  Annexation of certain territory (Chain of Rocks Canal
                     Bridge)
1569     12-18-2001  Annexation of certain territory (Tri-City Park Subdivision
                     territory excluded by Granite City)
                     Excluding or disconnecting certain territory (Narrow strip
1570     1-15-2002   in Northwest Quarter, Section 29, Township 3 North, Range
                     9 West)
1571     1-15-2002   Annexation of triangular bulge territory excluded by
                     Granite City
1585     7-30-2002   Annexation of certain territory from the Chain of Rocks
                     Recreation Corporation and to be zoned A-1
                     Excluding or disconnecting certain territory (triangular
1591A    11-5-2002   tract in Northeast Quarter, Sec. 26, Township 3 North,
                     Range 10 West of Third Principal Meridian)
                     Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
1592B    11-5-2002   territory (located in the N.E. 1/4 of Sec. 36, Township 4
                     North, Range 10 West of the Third Principal Meridian)
1594     12-17-2002  Annexation of certain territory (city owned tract on
                     Chouteau Island)
                     Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
1595     12-17-2002  territory (located in U.S. Survey 581, Claim 1258,
                     Township 3 North, Range 10 West of the Third Principal
                     Meridian)
                     Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory (located in the N.E. 1/4 of Frac. Section 1
1596     12-17-2002  Township 3 North, Range 10 West and the S.E. 1/4 of
                     Section 36 Township 4 North, Range 10 West of the Third
                     Principal Meridian)
                     Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
1619     7-1-2003    territory (located in S.E. 1/4 of Sec. 22, S. 1/2 of Sec.
                     23, Township 3 North, Range 10 West of the Third Principal
                     Meridian)
1643     10-19-2004  Annexation of uninhabited and unincorporated territory and
                     zoned I-1
1644     10-19-2004  Annexation of uninhabited and unincorporated territory and
                     zoned I-1
1645     10-19-2004  Annexation of certain uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory and to be zoned I-1
1653     5-31-2005   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres (Wofford
                     property)
1654     5-31-2005   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres (Wofford
                     property)
1655     5-31-2005   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres (Wein
                     property)
1656     5-31-2005   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres (Church
                     property)
1657     5-31-2005   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres (Cionko
                     property)
1667     5-16-2006   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1.
1668     5-16-2006   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
1735     7-5-2011    Annexation of uninhabited and unincorporated territory
                     approximately 82.1 acres to be zoned I-1
1741     1-31-2012   Annexation of contiguous, uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory approximately 1.1 acres to be zoned I-1
1838     10-29-2019  Annexation of contiguous, uninhabited and unincorporated
                     territory approximately 70 acres to be zoned I-1
1855     7-20-2020   Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
1855-A   8-3-2020    Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
1856     8-3-2020    Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
1857     8-3-2020    Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
1858     8-3-2020    Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
1859     8-3-2020    Annexation of surrounded territory under 60 acres to be
                     zoned I-1
                    
 
TABLE III:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS; REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
140  10-15- Purchase of real estate
     1906
319  - -    Sale of horses
     1923
365  6-15-  Street lighting contract
     1926
372  12-8-  Ornamental street lighting contract
     1926
504  3-22-  Additional fire hydrant
     1938
513  5-23-  Purchase of improvement
     1939
527  1- -   Execution of agreement between the city and the city’s Volunteer Fire Company;
     1941   garage property
543  1-13-  Agreement between the city and Granite City Trust and Savings Bank; collection of
     1942   assessments
544  3-4-   Execution of an agreement employing J.P. Howard as Auditor for the Kings Highway
     1942   chain of Rocks Bridge
583  3-13-  Execution of agreement between the city and the Volunteer Fire Company; Austin
     1945   Western patrol sweeper
589  12-18- Sale of certain property
     1945
614  3-30-  Acquisition by purchase of certain real estate
     1948
615  3-30-  Purchase of certain property
     1948
627  11-9-  Street lighting contract
     1948
628  11-9-  Electricity contract
     1948
631  3-15-  Sale of certain real estate
     1949
639  9-13-  Sale of certain real estate
     1949
650  7-3-   Contract between the city and competent person for dog control
     1951
657  12-4-  Sale of personal property
     1951
671  4-22-  Bridge lighting/electricity contract
     1952
717  10-7-  Street lighting contract
     1958
718  10-7-  Electricity contract
     1958
719  - -    Conveyance of real estate
728  12-1-  Sale of certain real estate
     1959
732  - -    Conveyance of real estate
771  7-7-   Written agreement between the city and Union Electric Company for construction
     1964   and electricity distribution
778  7-27-  Sale of real estate
     1965
798  7-25-  Disposal and sale of part of Chain-of-Rocks Bridge
     1967
802  11-14- Purchase of office space
     1967
810  10-16- Lease of real estate for a term in excess of 20 years
     1968
811  6-26-  Purchase of certain real estate
     1973
813  2-18-  Purchase of warehouse and office building
     1969
826  10-7-  Street lighting contract
     1958
827  - -    Electricity contract
836  - -    Sale of real estate located in Stephen Maeras Industrial Park
838  - -    Sale of real estate located in Stephen Maeras Industrial Park
876  - -    Purchase of real property
897  - -    Sale of real property
941  1-10-  Acquisition of certain properties
     1977
930  3-9-   Acquisition of real property
     1977
958  8-19-  Electricity contract
     1979
959  10-30- Street lighting contract
     1979
960  1-8-   Membership in the State Municipal League Risk Management Association; inter-
     1980   governmental cooperation contract
966  10-28- Membership in the State Municipal League Risk Management Association; inter-
     1980   governmental cooperation contract
996  - -    Lease between the city and Reese Drug Stores, Inc., for a portion of the city’s
            David Connole Alpine Village Shopping Center
997  - -    Lease with Chester Dairy Company for a portion of the city’s David Connole Alpine
            Village Shopping Center
1001 - -    Sale of Lot 13 in Stephen Maeras Industrial Park
1002 - -    Sale of Lot 14 in Stephen Maeras Industrial Park
1003 - -    Addendum to lease between city and Chester Dairy Company for a portion of the
            city’s David Connole Alpine Village Shopping Center
1004 - -    Addendum to lease between the city and Reese Drug Stores, Inc., for a portion of
            the David Connole Alpine Village Shopping Center
1005 - -    Sale of Lot 12 and a portion of Outlot B in Stephen Maeras Industrial Park
1021 - -    Lease between the city and owners of certain property in the city
1022 - -    Sale of northern one-half of Lot 2 and a portion of Outlot A in the Stephen
            Maeras Industrial Park
1024 - -    Additional fire hydrants
1031 12-7-  Declaring certain property junk and authorizing its sale or disposal
     1982
1031 - -    Lease between the city and SCA Services of Illinois, Inc.
1032 - -    Repealer; lease agreement between the city and SCA Services of Illinois, Inc.
1034 - -    Creating a cable television system; sale
1037 - -    Purchase of certain property
1039 - -    Sale of parcel 022
1040 - -    Purchase of certain property
1045 - -    Declaring certain property surplus and authorizing its disposal and sale
1049 - -    Sale of cable system
1063 - -    Acquisition of certain property; adoption of plan
1069 - -    Acquisition of certain property
1070 - -    Approving an agreement with Illinois-American Water Company for a 12-inch water
            main extension
1079 - -    Approving an area agreement and a water main extension deposit agreement with
            Illinois- American Water Company
1082 - -    Amendment; approving an area agreement and a water main extension deposit
            agreement with Illinois-American Water Company
1083 - -    Additional fire hydrants
1104 8-26-  Adopting a collective bargaining agreement between the city and Police Benevolent
     1986   and Protective Association, Unit #110
1106 9-9-   Rescinder; adoption of a collective bargaining agreement between the city and
     1986   Police Benevolent and Protective Association, Unit #110
1107 9-23-  Adopting a collective bargaining agreement between the city and Police Benevolent
     1986   and Protective Association, Unit #110
1109 10-21- Approving a contract between the city and Campbell Ambulance Service, Inc.
     1986
1117 - -    Authorizing the transfer of property between the city and Southwest Steel Supply
1123 - -    Authorizing the execution of a lease for real property owned by the city with the
            Rubicon Corporation, L.P.
1129 - -    Sale of surplus public real estate known as Old Chain-of-Rocks Bridge property
1139 - -    Sale of Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Block C of the city
1143 - -    Termination of lease; sale of property known as Kreider Truck Project
1148 - -    Sale of surplus public real estate known as 900 and 904 Jefferson Street
1165 - -    Lease between the city and Family Dollar Stores of Illinois, Inc., for a portion
            of the David Connole Alpine Village Shopping Center
1172 10-2-  Acquisition of certain properties
     1990
1176 - -    Repealer; authorizing different lease between the city and Family Dollar Stores
            of Illinois, Inc.
1208 - -    Lease between the city and David R. Schermer and O’Neils’s Market Inc., for a
            portion of alleyway in the 1,100 block of the city
1209 - -    Sale of Dunbar School property
1212 12-8-  Additional fire hydrants
     1992
1221 - -    Termination of lease; sale of property
1222 - -    Termination of lease; sale of property
1228 - -    Termination of lease; sale of property to Southwest Steel Supply Company , Series
            “A” and “B” revenue bonds
1235 - -    Sale of non-essential and non-productive real and personal property
1252 - -    Amendment; sale of non-essential and non- productive real and personal property
1260 - -    Termination of lease; sale of property
1265 - -    Purchase of four police cars; installment purchase agreement
1273 - -    Intent to purchase real property known as 615 Madison Avenue
1279 - -    Extending closing date of purchase of 615 Madison Avenue
1281 - -    Purchase of real property; contract
1282 - -    Accepting bid for new garbage and refuse truck
1301 2-27-  Amendment; financing for purchase of garbage/refuse truck and wheel loader
     1996
1309 - -    Authorizing a tax escrow agreement to supplement the redevelopment agreement
            between the city and Gateway International Motorsports Corporation
1324 - -    Purchase of real property; contract
1338 - -    Purchase of real property from Magna Bank, N.A.
1345 12-27- Contract between the city and Abbott Ambulance of Illinois, Inc.
     1996
1346 - -    Surrender and termination of a prior lease; new lease for the Old Chain-of-Rocks
            Bridge
1347 - -    Accepting request for lease termination between the city and Urioste Corporation
            Agreement between the city and the State of Illinois for the reconstruction of
1355 - -    Frontage Road 32 and construction of a new intersection with Illinois Route 203;
            addition of improvements to city street system
1375 9-10-  Inter-governmental agreement between the city and the Cloverleaf East Madison
     1997   Fire Protection District
1406 - -    Sale of non-essential and non-productive real property
1409 - -    Amendment; sale of non-essential and non- productive property
1410 - -    Redevelopment agreement between the city and Gateway National Golf Links, LLC
1411 - -    Sale of non-essential and non-productive real property
1419 - -    Purchase of real property for public purposes; contract
1420 - -    Purchase of real property for public purposes
1430 - -    Amendment; sale of non-essential and non- productive real property
1439 - -    Agreement to extend and modify existing agreements between Waste Management of
            Illinois, Inc., and the city
1442 - -    Approving several agreements between the city and Municipal Systems, Inc.
1451 - -    Purchase of real property; contract of sale
1454 - -    Purchase of real property; contract of sale
1457 - -    Amendment; sale of McCambridge/3rd Street property #1
1461 - -    Sale of non-essential and non-productive real property
1465 - -    Purchase of 1508 3rd Street
1467 - -    Purchase of four police cars; installment purchase agreement
1468 - -    Sale of 1225 and 1227 Madison Avenue
1484 - -    Settlement agreement between the city, the State of Illinois and the Village of
            Fairmont City
1487 5-4-   Additional fire hydrants
     1999
1489 - -    Agreement between the city and State of Illinois for the jurisdictional transfer
            of Industrial Street to the city
1522 4-18-  Contract between the city and Abbott Ambulance of Illinois, Inc.
     2000
1523 - -    Agreement between the city and the State of Illinois for the jurisdictional
            transfer of Industrial Street to the city
1533 - -    Execution of a pre-annexation agreement between the city and Terminal Railroad
            Association of St. Louis
R.   2-27-  Inter-governmental agreement between the Mitchell Fire Protection District and
01-  2001   the city
12
R.   3-13-  Cooperative agreement to provide law enforcement services to Corpland on Chouteau
01-  2001   Island
14
—  3-13-  Agreement between the city and the country for law enforcement services
     2001
R.   3-13-
01-  2001   Sale and disposal of certain surplus property
15
R.   5-22-
01-  2001   Redevelopment agreement between the city and Midwest Steel and Rack Manufacturing
25
R.   6-19-
01-  2001   Maintenance agreement between the city and the State Department of Transportation
32
R.   7-17-
01-  2001   Lease authorization
39
R.   7-17-
01-  2001   Lease authorization
40
R.   7-17-
01-  2001   Lease authorization
41
1557 7-31-  Agreement; lease between the city and Tri-City Regional Port District for Charles
     2001   Melvin Price Support Center (CMPSC)
R.   7-31-  Inter-governmental agreement; lease between the city and Tri-City Regional Port
01-  2001   District for Charles Melvin Price Support Center (CMPSC)
45
R.   7-31-
01-  2001   Lease agreement between the city and the Tri- City Regional Port District
46
1559 8-14-  Additional fire hydrants
     2001
R.   9-11-
01-  2001   Inter-governmental agreement for the acceptance of Cloverleaf Addition
47
R.   9-25-
01-  2001   Lease authorization
64
R.   10-9-  Inter-governmental agreement between the city and Southwest Illinois Department
01-  2001   Authority
67
R.   10-9-
01-  2001   Purchase of vacant land located on Race Street at Kohl Street
69
1576 3-26-  Installment purchase agreement for paying the cost to construct sanitary sewer
     2002   extensions within the city
1576 3-26-  Installment purchase agreement for paying the cost to construct sanitary sewer
     2002   extensions within the city
1597 12-17- Approving membership of the city in the Joint Utility Locating Information for
     2002   Excavators (J.U.L.I.E.) Agreement
1599 12-17- Intergovernmental agreement; Approving a Building Department Mutual Aid Agreement
     2002   between all municipal corporation members of the code enforcement officials
1610 4-8-   Agreement for the provision of video surveillance monitoring between the County
     2003   Housing Authority and the city
1641 8-10-  Authorizing a mutual aid box alarm system agreement
     04
1642 9-21-  Establishing control over the Chain of Rocks Bridge
     2004
1649 3-8-   Redevelopment agreement between the city and Premier Oil Holdings, L.L.C.
     2005
1652 5-17-  Authorizing participation in the Illinois Law Enforcement Alarm System
     2005
1659 6-28-  Authorizing the execution and delivery to Amendment No. 1 to the Redevelopment
     2005   Agreement with Gateway International Motor Sports Corporation
1706 9-30-  Adopting a redevelopment agreement between the city and Arizon Companies of
     2008   Illinois, Inc. for the River’s Edge Tax Increment Finance Redevelopment Area
1726 - -    ransferring a portion of Darling Road to the city relative to the I-70 bridge
            project
1750 11-20- Approving the Madison Electricity Aggregation Program Plan of Operation and
     2012   Governance
1768 12-2-  Approving an agreement for the provision of video surveillance monitoring between
     2014   the Madison County Housing Authority and the City of Madison, Illinois
1775 4-21-  Authorizing an addendum to the Mutual Aid Box Alarm System agreement
     2015
1782 11-17- Adopting a redevelopment agreement with River’s Edge Terminals, L.L.C.
     2015
1783 11-17- Adopting a redevelopment agreement with XXX Land Company, L.L.C./111 Salvage
     2015
1792 3-22-  Approving the disposition of real property owned by the City of Madison, Illinois
     2016
1802 11-29- Authorizing the City of Madison to enter into a UDAG loan for demolitions
     2016
1805 5-16-  Approving the disposition of real property owned by the City of Madison, Illinois
     2017
1808 8-8-   Authorizing a mining lease for a commercial mining operation on the north borrow
     2017
1809 8-8-   Authorizing and entering into a lease agreement for 308 Madison Ave (The Connole
     2017   Shopping Center)
1843 2-18-  Approving an intergovernmental agreement between Granite City and Madison
     2020   concerning the demolition of 1910 St. Clair Avenue, Granite City, Illinois
1852 6-8-   Authorizing the sale of city-owned real estate located at 615 Race Street to Amir
     2020   Sehic
            
 
TABLE IV:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
66       9-7-1896    Granting a telephone and telegraph franchise to American
                     Telephone and Telegraph Company
150      6-3-1907    Granting a railroad franchise to the Danville and
                     Edwardsville Terminal Railroad
176      2-6-1905    Amendment; R.E. Niedringhaus franchise
180      5-24-1909   Granting a gas distribution franchise to R.E. Niedringhaus
200      4-1-1911    Granting a telephone franchise to Bell Telephone Company
                     of Missouri
263      4-3-1917    Granting a water franchise to East St. Louis and
                     Interurban Water Company
287      7-2-1919    Granting a railroad franchise to the Standard Rail and
                     Steel Company
345      7- -1925    Granting a railroad franchise to St. Louis Electric
                     Terminal Railway Company
364      6-15-1926   Granting a power distribution franchise to Illinois Power
                     and Light Corporation
371      10-26-1926  Granting a railroad franchise to Litchfield and Madison
                     Railway Company
381      9-6-1927    Granting a pipe-line franchise to Illinois and Missouri
                     Pipe Line Company
382      9-6-1927    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to St.
                     Louise Light and Power Company
391      1-14-1928   Granting a gas distribution franchise to Cahokia
                     Manufacturers Gas Company
427      5-12-1931   Granting a switch or branch track franchise to Illinois
                     Terminal Company
452      2-20-1934   Granting a railroad franchise to Illinois Terminal Company
462      3-7-1935    Granting a street lighting and electricity distribution
                     franchise to Illinois Power and Light Corporation
479      12-1-1936   Granting a telephone franchise to Southwestern Bell
                     Telephone Company
625      11-9-1948   Granting a power distribution franchise to Illinois Power
                     Company
626      11-10-1948  Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Illinois
                     Power Company
760      1-8-1963    Granting a gas distribution franchise to Illinois Power
                     Company
—      - -1962     Granting a gas distribution franchise to Illinois Power
                     Company
825      8-19-1962   Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Illinois
                     Power Company
837      3-17-1970   Granting a water distribution franchise to East St. Louis
                     and Interurban Water Company
928      - -         Granting a telephone franchise to Illinois Bell Telephone
                     Company
934      5-3-1977    Amendment; telephone franchise
942      - -         Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Union
                     Electric Company
1048     - -         Granting a cable television franchise to South- Western
                     Cable TV, LTD.
1062     - -         Amendment; telephone franchise
1098     5-6-1986    Granting a telephone and telegraph franchise to American
                     Telephone and Telegraph Company
1112     6-2-1987    Granting a cable telecommunications franchise to MCI
                     Telecommunications Corporation
                     Granting a cable television franchise transfer from Cencom
1304     - -         Cable Income Partners, L.P., to Charter Communications
                     Entertainment I, L.P.
1349     1-28-1997   Cable television franchises; new terms and regulations
1350     - -         Granting a cable television franchise to Cable
                     Communications Regulatory Code
1464     - -         Granting a cable television franchise transfer from
                     Charter Communications Entertainment I, L.P.
1754     1-29-2013   Extending the gas utility system franchise with Ameren
                     Illinois Company for 20 years
1860     8-17-2020   Extending the electric utility system franchise with
                     Ameren Illinois
                    
 
TABLE V:  EASEMENTS AND ENCROACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
221      1-2-1912    Authorizing the granting of an easement
638      8-30-1949   Authorizing the granting of an easement and right-of-way
781      11-2-1965   Authorizing the granting of an easement
785      5-17-1966   Authorizing the granting of an easement
786      5-17-1966   Authorizing the granting of an easement
906      - -         Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of- way in
                     the city
1010     6-8-1982    Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of- way in
                     the city
1014     9-14-1982   Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of- way in
                     the city
1016     10-12-1982  Amendment; regulating the encroachment on a public right-
                     of-way in the city
1020     11-9-1982   Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of- way in
                     the city
1052     10-22-1984  Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of- way in
                     the city
1187     2-19-1991   Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of-way in
                     the city
1725     6-8-2010    Regulating the encroachment on a public right-of-way in
                     the city
 
TABLE VI:  STREET AND SIDEWALK CLOSINGS AND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
144  11-19- Vacating parts of alleys in Blocks 11, 12, 18 and 24 in the city
     1906
202  4-25-  Vacating a part of an alley in Block 29, Addition 1, of the city
     1911
215  7-18-  Vacating a portion of an alley in Block “R”
     1911
308  12-13- Vacating parts of certain streets in the city
     1921
331B 5-6-   Vacating certain alleys in the city
     1924
356  1-12-  Vacating part of a certain alley in the city
     1926
373  12-17- Vacating certain property in the city
     1926
463  5-7-   Vacating a part of a certain alley in the city
     1935
548  5-22-  Vacating an alley in Block 3, Addition 2, of the city
     1942
622  8-31-  Vacating Race Street and Kohl Street
     1948
658  12-4-  Vacating an alley in Block 2, Addition 2, of the city
     1951
673  5-6-   Vacating an alley in Block 31 of the city
     1952
762  1-22-  Vacating alleys in Block “T” of the city
     1963
773  7-7-   Vacating and disclaiming a ten-foot strip of land in Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in
     1964   Block B of the city
907  - -    Vacating a portion of an alley in Block “M” of the city
908  - -    Vacating and closing a portion of the sidewalk area on Block “M” of the
            city
            Vacating Washington Avenue from the southern boundary of Race Street
1244 - -    through the intersection of Race Street and Washington Avenue, south to its
            termination
     9-22-  Vacating an alley in a block bounded bu McCambridge Avenue, 2nd Street,
1458 1998   Highland Avenue, extended across Block 11, and 3rd Street from the western
            right-of-way line
     10-19- Vacating Highland Avenue between 2nd Street and 3rd Street and vacating
1506 1999   alleys between 2nd Street and 3rd Street from Alton Avenue to a point east
            of Highland Avenue
1623 10-7-  Vacating a ten foot wide alley located in Block 25 of Newport Addition
     2003
     4-8-   Vacating an alley that is bounded by Madison Avenue generally on the east
1761 2014   and State Street generally on the west between 4th and 5th Streets within
            the corporate limits
1786 12-1-  Vacating any and all platted alleyways that exist or have existed in Block
     2015   23, 2nd Addition to the city
 
TABLE VII:  STREET RENAMINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
229      1-2-1913    Renaming Giognon Street to Alton Avenue
                     Renaming Dagwell Street and all of 12th Street to the
409      9-3-1929    inclusive 12th Street; renaming Martin Street and all of
                     McCambridge Avenue to the inclusive McCambridge Street
804      11-14-1967  Renaming street, in Stephen Maeras Industrial Park, Caine
                     Drive
926      12-14-1976  Renaming Caine Drive to McCasland Avenue
1184     1-22-1991   Renaming a street to Access Boulevard
1486     5-4-1999    Renaming Collinsville Avenue to Wayne Lanter Avenue
1681     12-12-2006  Renaming Big Bend Road to Old Madison Road East
1707     10-28-2008  Renaming Wharf Street to Bissell Street
 
TABLE VIII:  CONSTRUCTION; IMPROVEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1421     1-19-1906   Extension of Market Street
152      6-18-1907   Construction of joint sewer
174      2-15-1909   Danville and Edwardsville Railway construction; extension
                     of time
185      7-19-1909   Construction of stub switch track
193      8-20-1920   Construction of sidewalks
194      8-30-1910   Construction of sidewalks
195      9-7-1910    Construction of sidewalks
208      7-6-1911    Construction of sidewalks
209      7-6-1911    Construction of sidewalks
210      7-6-1911    Construction of sidewalks
212      7-6-1911    Construction of sidewalks
213      7-6-1911    Construction of sidewalks
214      7-6-1911    Construction of sidewalks
218      8-30-1911   Construction of sidewalks
217      8-30-1911   Construction of sidewalks
228      - -         Local improvements to sanitary sewer system
238      9-23-1913   Local improvements to 7th Street Paving District
243      9-23-1913   Local improvements to 4th Street Paving District
244      9-23-1913   Local improvements to 5th Street Paving District
248      8-28-1914   Local improvements; recommendations
249      10-20-1914  Improvements to 7th Street Paving District; funds
254      2-22-1916   Repealer; improvements to sewer system
—      4-18-1918   Local improvements to West Market Street Paving District
328      11-20-1923  Local improvements to North Side sewer system
329      3-8-1924    Local improvements to 4th Street Paving District
330      3-24-1924   Local improvements to 5th Street Paving District
332      5-28-1924   Local improvements to East 3rd Street Paving District
334      3-22-1924   Local improvements to 12th Street Paving District
351      6-22-1925   Local improvements to North State Street Paving District
352      - -         Local improvements to South State Street Paving District
354      10-21-1925  Local improvements to Madison Avenue Paving District No.
                     14
355      11-17-1925  Local improvements to Madison Avenue Paving District No.2
360      - -         Local improvements to Sidewalk District No. 1
361      6-15-1926   Local improvements to Madison Sidewalk District No. 2
362      6-15-1926   Local improvements to Madison Sidewalk District No. 3
363      6-15-1926   Local improvements to Sidewalk District No. 4
389      9-20-1929   Local improvement to Newport sewer system
410      10-1-1929   Local improvements tp New Madison Sidewalk District
411      10-1-1928   Local improvements to East 2nd Street Paving District
414      - -         Local improvements to G Street Paving District
416      7-8-1930    Local improvements to G Street District
905      - -         Local improvements
1018     - -         Addition of FAU Route 9097 from the south city limits to
                     the street system
1116     - -         Twelve-inch water main extension
1308     - -         Improvements
                     Addition of Ohio Street from Illinois Route 203 to Madison
1336     - -         Road, Madison Road from Big Bend Road south for 1.6 miles,
                     and Big Bend Road from Illinois Route 203 to Madison Road
1354     3-6-1997    Addition of bridge structure carrying Madison Road over
                     Cahokia Canal
135      12-11-1997  Addition of a public road, Pit Lane
1566     10-23-2001  Installation of fire hydrants
 
TABLE IX:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
987      - -         Zoning classification change
1096     - -         Zoning classification change
1155     - -         Zoning classification change
1398     - -         Zoning classification change
1448     - -         Zoning classification change
1530     7-5-2000    Zoning classification change
1531     7-5-2000    Zoning classification change
1573     1-22-2002   Zoning classification change to R-3 District
1575     3-12-2002   Zoning classification change to B-3 District
1580     6-4-2002    Zoning classification change to A-1 District
1601     1-14-2003   Zoning classification change to B-2 District
1648     1-25-2005   Zoning classification change
1665     5-2-2006    Zoning classification change to B-2 District
1685     4-3-2007    Zoning classification change to I-1 District
1784     12-1-2015   Zoning classification change to B-2 District
 
TABLE X:  TAX INCREMENT DEVELOPMENT AREAS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
1288 - -    Approving plan and project
1289 - -    Designating area and adopting financing plan
1290 - -    Terminating use within area boundaries
1292 - -    Approving and appointing developer in area
1401 - -    Approving and appointing developer in area
1518 - -    Designating area and adopting financing plan
1561 9-11-  Special allocation fund established for specific development area
     2001
1618 7-1-   Terminating tax abatement within boundaries of tax increment redevelopment
     2003   areas
1622 8-12-  Adopting tax increment financing
     2003
1624 10-21- Adopting tax increment financing
     2003
1625 10-21- Terminating tax abatement within boundaries of a tax increment redevelopment
     2003   area
1626 11-4-  Approving tax increment redevelopment plan and project
     2003
1627 11-4-  Designating tax increment financing redevelopment project area
     2003
1628 11-4-  Adopting tax increment financing
     2003
1683 3-20-  Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
     2007
1684 3-20-  Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
     2007
1695 10-30- Adopting tax increment redevelopment agreement
     2007
1714 9-15-  Amending the Caine Street tax increment financing plan
     2009
1793 4-6-   Approving tax increment financing redevelopment plan and redevelopment
     2016   project area
1794 4-6-   Designating and approving tax increment financing redevelopment project area
     2016
1795 4-6-   Adopting tax increment financing in the tax increment financing
     2016   redevelopment project area
     10-2-  Approving an amendment to the city’s tax increment financing redevelopment
1825 2018   project area
             
           
 
TABLE XI:  ENTERPRISE ZONES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1059     12-4-1984   Establishment of enterprise zone
1113     6-16-1987   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1126     - -         Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1163     - -         Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1300     - -         Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1555     7-17-2001   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1658     5-31-2005   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1683     3-20-2007   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1684     3-20-2007   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1701     5-13-2008   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1722     5-11-2010   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1738     10-25-2011  Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1766     10-21-2014  Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1767     12-2-2014   Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
1798     - - 2016    Amendment; establishment of enterprise zone
 
TABLE XII:  DEDICATIONS AND ACCEPTANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
143      11-19-1906  Approval of plat of resubdivision
247      7-17-1914   Acceptance of a plat
307      12-6-1921   Acceptance of resubdivision of lots
342      4-30-1925   Acceptance of a plat
357      4-6-1925    Acceptance of resubdivision of lots
704      9-4-1956    Acceptance of a plat
729      1-12-1960   Acceptance of a plat
738      - -         Acceptance of a plat
763      1-22-1963   Acceptance of a plat
767      4-15-1964   Acceptance of a plat
774      7-7-1964    Acceptance of a plat
794      4-13-1967   Acceptance of a plat
803      11-14-1967  Naming the city’s industrial park in honor of Stephen
                     Maeras
909      11-5-1975   Acceptance of a conveyance of real estate
1067     - -         Acceptance of a donation of land
1111     5-19-1987   Acceptance of property known as Dunbar School
1127     - -         Acceptance of a donation of land
1549     6-19-2000   Acceptance of roadway dedication
R. 01-66 10-9-2001   Dedication of “Day of Remembrance”
1647     1-12-2005   Dedication of two tracts of land to be used for future
                     residential development
                     Accepting the dedication of five tracts of land (Bissell
1818     5-29-2018   St. Row) within the city to be used for roadway right-of-
                     way
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                                       Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01                          10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02                          10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03                          10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04                          10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09                          10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11                          10.04
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29                          10.02
Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2                             10.04
Ch. 5, Act 175, §§ 1-101 et seq.              10.02
Ch. 5, Act 315, § 3                            40.01
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 35                           37.002
Ch. 5, Act 425, § 45(a)(6)                     37.003
Ch. 10, Act 5, §§ 1-3                         40.01
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-1.4                         40.01
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 9-3                           40.01
Ch. 20, Act 2910, §§ 0.01 et seq.             131.02
                                                39.01,
Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.                39.03,
                                                39.09,
                                                39.12
Ch. 35                                          Ch. 124
Ch. 35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.                 124.01,
                                                124.04
Ch. 35, Act 635, § 10                          124.01
Ch. 35, Act 635, § 20                          124.03
Ch. 45, Act 140, § 0.01 et seq.                157.01
Ch. 55, Act 5, § 3-9005                        131.02
Ch. 55, Act 150, §§ 1 et seq.                 37.090
                                                32.01,
Ch. 65, Act 5                                   32.04,
                                                10.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2                         10.02
                                                10.99,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                         36.24,
                                                153.01,
                                                156.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1                       10.99
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-3                         Adopt. Ord.
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2.2-1 et seq., Div. 2.2   36.15
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10                     31.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90                     31.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-95                     31.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-17                       124.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-22                       33.26
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-5                        39.13
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-6                        39.13
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-10                       39.14
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-5                      156.02
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-1                       153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-19-4                       50.03
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-20-7                       95.20
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                       153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                       153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                       153.01
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31.1                       36.16,
                                                150.15
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1 et seq.             150.17,
                                                150.26
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-31.1 et seq., Div. 31.1  36.17
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq.           33.40
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.4-4.2                   33.40
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74-4-5(a)                     33.49
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74-4-5(c)                     33.49
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74-4.5(a)                     33.49
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74.4-5(d)                     33.49
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74.4-5(d)(9)                  33.49
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 74.4-6(e)                     33.49
Ch. 70, Act 2605, § 1 et seq.                  157.01
Ch. 105, Act 5, § 10-19.1                      130.01
Ch. 122, Act 26                                 130.01
Ch. 210, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.                153.16
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-202                        124.01,
                                                124.04
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-221                        124.01,
                                                124.04
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222                        124.01,
                                                124.04
Ch. 220, Act 5, § 9-222.1                      124.01,
                                                124.04
Ch. 225, Act 10                                 93.16
Ch. 225, Act 101                                93.16
Ch. 225, Act 460, §§ 1 et seq.                130.02
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.                 111.04
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 5                           122.077
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 5 et seq.                 122.077
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 60(a)                       122.079
Ch. 230, Act 50, §§ 5 et seq.                 122.076
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 1 et seq.                    157.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 3.360                        132.01,
                                                132.02
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 21(r)(2), (r)(3)             157.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.2                         157.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 22.38                        157.01
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2                         157.01,
                                                157.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 39.2(a)                      157.04
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 55.3                         157.01
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 3                          132.01
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 4                          132.02
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 5                         132.03
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 6                          132.04
                                                132.02—
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 8                          132.04,
                                                132.07
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 9                          132.05
Ch. 415, Act 105, § 10                         132.06
Ch. 425, Act 25, § 3 et seq.                   93.15
Ch. 430, Act 65, §§ 0.01—16.3               Ch. 131
Ch. 505, Act 100, § 2(5)                       95.20
Ch. 625                                         70.01,
                                                70.99
Ch. 625, Act 5                                  36.16,
                                                36.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.              132.01
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188                        10.02
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-815(b)                     70.45
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-815(c)                     70.45
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-818                        70.45
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-203 et seq.              90.07
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5                      73.02,
                                                73.05
                                                73.02,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3                     73.04,
                                                73.14
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(f)                  73.05
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500—11-502            70.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1306                      73.04
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1426.1                    70.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709                       70.17
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-712                       70.45
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-713                       70.45
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-102                       70.46,
                                                70.48
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-103                       70.46
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-107                       70.46,
                                                70.48
                                                70.45,
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111                       70.46,
                                                70.48
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(a)                    70.45,
                                                Ch. 74, Sched. VII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(b)                    70.45,
                                                Ch. 74, Sched. VII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-111(f)                    70.49
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-316                       70.46,
                                                70.48
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 15-317                       70.46
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204                       70.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1                         130.05
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3                         130.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §24-1(a)(1)-(3), (5), (8), (11)131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(6)                   131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(7)                   131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(a)(9)                   131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(c)(2)                   131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1(e)                      131.01
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2 (a), (d), (e), (g)-(i)  131.02
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1                       131.03
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-6                         131.04
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 28-1 et seq.               122.015
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2                         122.015
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-0.1                     131.10
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-1                       131.11
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-2                       131.12
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-3                       131.13,
                                                131.14
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-4                       131.14
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24.8-5                       131.15
Ch. 720, Act 545, §§ 0.01—7                 Ch. 131
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq.                36.04
Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 3 et seq.                132.20
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 100 et seq.              36.04,
                                                132.20
Ch. 720, Act 570, §§ 102 et seq.              132.20
Ch. 720, Act 600, §§ 1 et seq.                132.22
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-3                       130.04
Ch. 725, Act 5, § 112A-14(b)                   130.04
Ch. 725, Act 210, §§ 1 et seq.                131.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 1 et seq.                    133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 5-6-1                        36.04
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 10-1                         133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 10-2                         133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 10-3                         133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 10-3.1                       133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 10-5(b)(10)                  133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 10-7                         133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-6                         133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-9                         133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-9.1                       133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-15.1                      133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-18.1                      133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-19.2                      133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 11-20.1                      133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 12-13                        133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 12-14                        133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 12-14.1                      133.01
Ch. 730, Act 5, § 12-16                        133.01
Ch. 730, Act 152, § 101 et seq.                133.01
Ch. 735, Act 4, § 15-1505.8(l)                 130.04
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 2-203                        73.14,
                                                150.28
                                                37.18,
Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.              73.11,
                                                73.12,
                                                150.27
Ch. 735, Act 5, § 15-1200.5                    130.04
Ch. 740, Act 147, § 10                         36.04
Ch. 745, Act 10, § 1-101                       156.05
Ch. 765, Act 205                                156.54
                                                156.02,
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1                          156.22,
                                                156.81
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                          153.17
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 5                          156.99
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 11                         156.99
                                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
01-05    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-06    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-07    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-08    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-09    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-10    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-11    2-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-12    2-27-2001   T.S.O. III
01-14    3-13-2001   T.S.O. III
01-15    3-13-2001   T.S.O. III
01-16    3-13-2001   T.S.O. I
01-19    4-24-2001   T.S.O. I
01-21    4-24-2001   T.S.O. I
01-25    5-22-2001   T.S.O. III
01-27    6-5-2001    T.S.O. I
01-28    6-5-2001    T.S.O. I
01-29    6-5-2001    T.S.O. I
01-30    6-5-2001    T.S.O. I
01-31    6-5-2001    T.S.O. I
01-32    6-19-2001   T.S.O. III
01-35    6-19-2001   T.S.O. I
01-36    6-19-2001   T.S.O. I
01-37    6-19-2001   T.S.O. I
01-39    7-17-2001   T.S.O. III
01-40    7-17-2001   T.S.O. III
01-41    7-17-2001   T.S.O. III
01-43    7-17-2001   T.S.O. I
01-45    7-31-2001   T.S.O. III
01-46    7-31-2001   T.S.O. III
01-47    9-11-2001   T.S.O. III
01-50    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-51    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-52    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-54    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-55    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-56    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-57    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-58    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-59    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-60    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-61    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-62    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-63    9-11-2001   T.S.O. I
01-64    9-25-2001   T.S.O. III
01-65    9-25-2001   T.S.O. I
01-66    10-9-2001   T.S.O. XII
01-67    10-9-2001   T.S.O. III
01-68    10-9-2001   37.050
01-69    10-9-2001   T.S.O. III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.               Date Passed Code Section
—                    4-18-1918   T.S.O. VIII
—                    - -1962     T.S.O. IV
—                    3-13-2001   T.S.O. III
66                     9-7-1896    T.S.O. IV
140                    10-15-1906  T.S.O. III
142                    11-19-1906  T.S.O. VIII
143                    11-19-1906  T.S.O. XII
144                    11-19-1906  T.S.O. VI
146                    2-4-1907    95.23
150                    6-3-1907    T.S.O. IV
152                    6-18-1907   T.S.O. VIII
174                    2-15-1909   T.S.O. VIII
175                    5-6-1909    T.S.O. II
176                    2-6-1905    T.S.O. IV
180                    5-24-1909   T.S.O. IV
181                    6-7-1909    95.22
185                    7-19-1909   T.S.O. VIII
193                    8-20-1920   T.S.O. VIII
194                    8-30-1910   T.S.O. VIII
195                    9-7-1910    T.S.O. VIII
200                    4-1-1911    T.S.O. IV
202                    4-25-1911   T.S.O. VI
208                    7-6-1911    T.S.O. VIII
209                    7-6-1911    T.S.O. VIII
210                    7-6-1911    T.S.O. VIII
212                    7-6-1911    T.S.O. VIII
213                    7-6-1911    T.S.O. VIII
214                    7-6-1911    T.S.O. VIII
215                    7-18-1911   T.S.O. VI
217                    8-30-1911   T.S.O. VIII
218                    8-30-1911   T.S.O. VIII
221                    1-2-1912    T.S.O. V
227                    9-6-1912    95.21
228                    - -         T.S.O. VIII
229                    1-2-1913    T.S.O. VII
238                    9-23-1913   T.S.O. VIII
243                    9-23-1913   T.S.O. VIII
244                    9-23-1913   T.S.O. VIII
247                    7-17-1914   T.S.O. XII
248                    8-28-1914   T.S.O. VIII
249                    10-20-1914  T.S.O. VIII
254                    2-22-1916   T.S.O. VIII
263                    4-3-1917    T.S.O. IV
287                    7-2-1919    T.S.O. IV
307                    12-6-1921   T.S.O. XII
308                    12-13-1921  T.S.O. VI
319                    - -1923     T.S.O. III
328                    11-20-1923  T.S.O. VIII
329                    3-8-1924    T.S.O. VIII
330                    3-24-1924   T.S.O. VIII
331B                   5-6-1924    T.S.O. VI
332                    5-28-1924   T.S.O. VIII
334                    3-22-1924   T.S.O. VIII
342                    4-30-1925   T.S.O. XII
345                    7- -1925    T.S.O. IV
351                    6-22-1925   T.S.O. VIII
352                    - -         T.S.O. VIII
354                    10-21-1925  T.S.O. VIII
355                    11-17-1925  T.S.O. VIII
356                    1-12-1926   T.S.O. VI
357                    4-6-1925    T.S.O. XII
360                    - -         T.S.O. VIII
361                    6-15-1926   T.S.O. VIII
362                    6-15-1926   T.S.O. VIII
363                    6-15-1926   T.S.O. VIII
364                    6-15-1926   T.S.O. IV
365                    6-15-1926   T.S.O. III
371                    10-26-1926  T.S.O. IV
372                    12-8-1926   T.S.O. III
373                    12-17-1926  T.S.O. VI
381                    9-6-1927    T.S.O. IV
382                    9-6-1927    T.S.O. IV
389                    9-20-1929   T.S.O. VIII
391                    1-14-1928   T.S.O. IV
409                    9-3-1929    T.S.O. VII
410                    10-1-1929   T.S.O. VIII
411                    10-1-1928   T.S.O. VIII
414                    - -         T.S.O. VIII
416                    7-8-1930    T.S.O. VIII
427                    5-12-1931   T.S.O. IV
441                    10-11-1932  121.01—
                                   121.04
452                    2-20-1934   T.S.O. IV
462                    3-7-1935    T.S.O. IV
463                    5-7-1935    T.S.O. VI
479                    12-1-1936   T.S.O. IV
480                    12-29-1936  113.03
495                    7-13-1937   Ch. 75, Sched. II
504                    3-22-1938   T.S.O. III
513                    5-23-1939   T.S.O. III
527                    1- -1941    T.S.O. III
543                    1-13-1942   T.S.O. III
544                    3-4-1942    T.S.O. III
548                    5-22-1942   T.S.O. VI
549                    6-16-1942   30.01—
                                   30.10
551                    6-16-1942   32.35—
                                   32.45
556                    8-11-1942   96.02
557                    8-25-1942   32.60—
                                   32.78
                                   110.01—
                                   110.08,
                                   110.10—
                                   110.15,
562                    - -         113.04,
                                   122.001,
                                   122.999,
                                   123.01,
                                   123.99
576                    6-16-1942   32.35—
                                   32.45
583                    3-13-1945   T.S.O. III
589                    12-18-1945  T.S.O. III
593                    4-23-1946   37.065—
                                   37.067
                                   122.055—
598                    8-14-1946   122.060,
                                   122.062,
                                   122.999
601                    5-13-1947   32.37
614                    3-30-1948   T.S.O. III
615                    3-30-1948   T.S.O. III
616                    3-30-1948   96.01
618                    6-22-1948   115.35—
                                   115.38
622                    8-31-1948   T.S.O. VI
623                    9-28-1948   115.35—
                                   115.38
625                    11-9-1948   T.S.O. IV
626                    11-10-1948  T.S.O. IV
627                    11-9-1948   T.S.O. III
628                    11-9-1948   T.S.O. III
631                    3-15-1949   T.S.O. III
638                    8-30-1949   T.S.O. V
639                    9-13-1949   T.S.O. III
641                    11-8-1949   Ch. 75, Sched. II
646                    2-13-1951   32.60
648                    5-8-1951    T.S.O. II
650                    7-3-1951    T.S.O. III
656                    1-23-1951   51.03
657                    12-4-1951   T.S.O. III
658                    12-4-1951   T.S.O. VI
671                    4-22-1952   T.S.O. III
673                    7-1-1952    Ch. 74, Sched. IV
673                    5-6-1952    T.S.O. VI
                                   Ch. 74, Scheds.
674                    7-1-1952    IV,
                                   VIII
677                    11-18-1952  Ch. 75, Sched. II
680                    5-5-1953    32.20—
                                   32.23
684                    6-30-1953   Ch. 75, Sched. II
692                    2-22-1955   Ch. 75, Sched. II
693                    5-3-1955    120.01—
                                   120.11
694                    5-17-1955   116.01—
                                   116.10
698                    8-9-1955    Ch. 74, Sched. VII
704                    9-4-1956    T.S.O. XII
706                    9-4-1956    37.065—
                                   37.067
708                    12-11-1956  92.01—
                                   92.05
717                    10-7-1958   T.S.O. III
718                    10-7-1958   T.S.O. III
719                    - -         T.S.O. III
720                    2-24-1959   115.20—
                                   115.24
721                    2-24-1959   113.02
723                    7-28-1959   Ch. 74, Sched. VIII
725                    9-22-1959   Ch. 74, Sched. VI;
                                   Ch. 75, Sched. II
728                    12-1-1959   T.S.O. III
729                    1-12-1960   T.S.O. XII
730                    1-26-1960   Ch. 74, Sched. IX
732                    - -         T.S.O. III
738                    - -         T.S.O. XII
                                   112.01—
741                    12-13-1960  112.09,
                                   112.99
743                    1-24-1961   T.S.O. II
745                    3-28-1961   Ch. 75, Sched. II
747                    3-28-1969   Ch. 74, Sched. IX
754                    11-14-1961  91.20—
                                   91.29
755                    2-21-1962   Ch. 74, Sched. III
758                    9-4-1962    Ch. 75, Sched. II
760                    1-8-1963    T.S.O. IV
762                    1-22-1963   T.S.O. VI
763                    1-22-1963   T.S.O. XII
                                   95.01—
765                    - -         95.07,
                                   95.24—
                                   95.33
767                    4-15-1964   T.S.O. XII
768                    4-28-1964   Ch. 74, Sched. IX
769                    5-12-1964   118.01—
                                   118.03
770                    5-25-1964   113.01
771                    7-7-1964    T.S.O. III
773                    7-7-1964    T.S.O. VI
774                    7-7-1964    T.S.O. XII
776                    11-10-1964  T.S.O. II
778                    7-27-1965   T.S.O. III
779                    8-10-1965   51.02
781                    11-2-1965   T.S.O. V
782                    11-30-1965  32.01—
                                   32.07
785                    5-17-1966   T.S.O. V
786                    5-17-1966   T.S.O. V
790                    11-1-1966   Ch. 75, Sched. II
792                    3-7-1967    31.01
794                    4-13-1967   T.S.O. XII
798                    7-25-1967   T.S.O. III
802                    11-14-1967  T.S.O. III
803                    11-14-1967  T.S.O. XII
804                    11-14-1967  T.S.O. VII
805                    2-20-1968   T.S.O. II
807                    4-30-1968   Ch. 75, Sched. II
810                    10-16-1968  T.S.O. III
811                    6-26-1973   T.S.O. III
812                    2-18-1969   35.35—
                                   35.40
813                    2-18-1969   T.S.O. III
                                   Ch. 74, Scheds.
814                    4-1-1969    V,
                                   VI
819                    5-13-1969   130.03,
                                   130.99
825                    8-19-1962   T.S.O. IV
826                    10-7-1958   T.S.O. III
827                    - -         T.S.O. III
833                    1-20-1970   Ch. 75, Sched. II
835                    1-20-1970   Ch. 74, Sched. IX
836                    - -         T.S.O. III
837                    3-17-1970   T.S.O. IV
838                    - -         T.S.O. III
844                    9-1-1970    37.037
845                    - -         T.S.O. II
858                    3-14-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
859                    3-14-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
860                    3-28-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
861                    3-28-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
862                    3-28-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
863                    3-28-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
864                    3-28-1972   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
865                    5-9-1972    Ch. 74, Sched. IV
866                    6-20-1972   96.01
869                    10-24-1972  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
870                    10-24-1972  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
871                    10-24-1972  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
872                    11-22-1972  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
873                    1-16-1973   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
                                   117.20—
875                    6-26-1973   117.28,
                                   117.45
876                    - -         T.S.O. III
879                    10-9-1973   95.45—
                                   95.51
880                    10-9-1973   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
881                    10-9-1973   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
882                    10-9-1973   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
                                   122.035—
883                    10-9-1973   122.041,
                                   122.999
                                   154.01—
884                    12-4-1973   154.09,
                                   154.99
                                   152.001—
                                   152.004,
                                   152.015—
                                   152.026,
                                   152.035,
                                   152.036,
                                   152.045—
885                    1-2-1974    152.047,
                                   152.060—
                                   152.065,
                                   152.075,
                                   152.077—
                                   152.087,
                                   152.100—
                                   152.106,
                                   154.076
887, § 1.1            - -         155.001
887, § 1.2            - -         155.002
887, § 1.3            - -         155.003
887, § 1.4            - -         155.004
887, § 1.5            - -         155.006
887, § 1.8            - -         155.007
887, § 1.9, Fig. 1    - -         Ch. 155, App. A
887, § 1.9, Fig. 2    - -         Ch. 155, App. B
887, § 1.9, Figs. 3, 4- -         Ch. 155, App. C
887, § 1.9, Fig. 5    - -         Ch. 155, App. D
887, § 1.401          - -         155.005
887, § 2.1            - -         155.020
887, § 2.2            - -         155.021
887, § 2.3            - -         155.022
887, § 2.4            - -         155.035
887, § 2.5            - -         155.055
887, § 2.6            - -         155.070
887, § 2.7            - -         155.085
887, § 2.8            - -         155.100
887, § 2.9            - -         155.115
887, § 2.10           - -         155.130
887, § 2.11           - -         155.145
887, § 2.12           - -         155.160
887, § 2.201          - -         Ch. 155, App. E
887, § 2.202          - -         Ch. 155, App. E
887, § 2.401          - -         155.036
887, § 2.402          - -         155.037
887, § 2.403          - -         155.038
887, § 2.501          - -         155.056
887, § 2.502          - -         155.057
887, § 2.503          - -         155.058
887, § 2.601          - -         155.071
887, § 2.602          - -         155.072
887, § 2.603          - -         155.073
887, § 2.701          - -         155.086
887, § 2.702          - -         155.087
887, § 2.801          - -         155.101
887, § 2.802          - -         155.102
887, § 2.803          - -         155.103
887, § 2.901          - -         155.116
887, § 2.902          - -         155.117
887, § 2.903          - -         155.118
887, § 2.1001         - -         155.131
887, § 2.1002         - -         155.132
887, § 2.1003         - -         155.133
887, § 2.1004         - -         155.134
887, § 2.1101         - -         155.146
887, § 2.1102         - -         155.147
887, § 2.1103         - -         155.148
887, § 2.1201         - -         155.161
887, § 2.1202         - -         155.162
887, § 2.1203         - -         155.163
887, § 2.1204         - -         155.164
887, § 3.1            - -         155.175
887, § 3.2            - -         155.176
887, § 3.3            - -         155.177
887, § 3.4            - -         155.178
887, § 3.5            - -         155.179
887, § 3.6            - -         155.180
887, § 3.7            - -         155.181
887, § 3.8            - -         155.182
887, § 3.9            - -         155.183
887, § 3.10           - -         155.184
887, § 3.11           - -         155.185
887, § 3.12           - -         155.186
887, § 3.13           - -         155.187
887, §§ 3.14—      - -         155.188
3.20
887, § 3.21           - -         155.189
887, § 3.22           - -         155.190
887, § 3.23           - -         155.191
887, §§ 3.24—      - -         155.192
3.27
887, § 3.201          - -         155.176
887, § 4.1            - -         155.205
887, § 4.2            - -         155.206
887, § 4.3            - -         155.207
887, § 4.4            - -         155.208
887, § 4.5            - -         155.209
887, § 4.6            - -         155.210
887, § 4.7            - -         155.211
887, § 4.8            - -         155.212
887, § 4.9            - -         155.213
887, § 4.10           - -         155.214
887, § 4.11           - -         155.215
887, § 4.12           - -         155.216
887, § 4.13           - -         155.217
887, § 4.14           - -         155.218
887, § 4.15           - -         155.219
887, § 4.16           - -         155.220
887, § 4.17           - -         155.221
887, § 4.18           - -         155.235
887, § 4.19           - -         155.235
887, § 4.20           - -         155.222
887, § 4.21           - -         155.223
887, § 4.22           - -         155.237
887, § 4.23           - -         155.238
887, § 4.24           - -         155.239
887, § 4.25           - -         155.240
887, § 4.26           - -         155.241
887, § 4.27           - -         155.242
887, § 4.28           - -         155.243
887, § 4.29           - -         155.244
887, § 4.30           - -         155.224
887, § 4.31           - -         155.224
887, § 5.1            - -         155.255
887, § 5.2            - -         155.265
887, § 5.3            - -         155.266
887, § 5.4            - -         155.267
887, § 5.5            - -         155.268
887, § 5.6            - -         155.269
887, § 5.7            - -         155.270
887, § 5.8            - -         155.271
887, § 5.9            - -         155.272
887, § 5.10           - -         155.273
887, § 5.11           - -         155.274
887, § 5.12           - -         155.275
887, § 5.13           - -         155.276
887, § 5.14           - -         155.277
887, § 5.15           - -         155.278
887, § 5.16           - -         155.279
887, § 5.17           - -         155.280
887, § 5.18           - -         155.281
887, § 5.19           - -         155.290
887, § 5.20           - -         155.291
887, § 5.21           - -         155.292
887, § 5.22           - -         155.293
887, § 5.23           - -         155.294
887, § 5.24           - -         155.295
887, § 5.25           - -         155.296
887, § 5.26           - -         155.297
887, § 5.27           - -         155.298
887, § 5.28           - -         155.299
887, § 6.1            - -         155.310
887, § 6.2            - -         155.311
887, § 6.3            - -         155.312
887, § 6.4            - -         155.313
887, § 6.5            - -         155.314
887, § 6.6            - -         155.315
887, § 6.7            - -         155.316
887, § 6.8            - -         155.317
887, §§ 6.9—6.22   - -         155.318
887, § 6.23           - -         155.319
887, § 6.24           - -         155.320
887, § 6.25           - -         155.321
887, § 6.26           - -         155.322
887, § 6.27           - -         155.323
887, §§ 6.28—6.30  - -         155.324
887, §§ 7.1—7.11   - -         155.335
887, §§ 8.1—8.16   - -         155.336
887, § 9.1            - -         155.337
887, § 9.2            - -         155.337
887, § 9.3            - -         155.338
887, § 9.4            - -         155.339
887, § 9.5            - -         155.340
887, § 9.6            - -         155.999
                                   117.40—
888                    5-7-1974    117.45,
                                   117.99
889                    5-21-1974   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
895                    1-28-1974   35.01—
                                   35.18
897                    - -         T.S.O. III
899                    8-12-1975   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
900                    8-12-1975   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
903                    9-9-1975    51.01
904                    9-9-1975    Ch. 75, Sched. II
905                    - -         T.S.O. VIII
906                    - -         T.S.O. V
907                    - -         T.S.O. VI
908                    - -         T.S.O. VI
909                    11-5-1975   T.S.O. XII
911                    3-23-1976   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
914                    6-29-1976   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
922                    10-5-1977   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
923                    11-2-1976   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
924                    11-17-1976  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
925                    11-20-1976  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
926                    12-14-1976  T.S.O. VII
928                    - -         T.S.O. IV
929                    1-11-1977   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
930                    3-9-1977    T.S.O. III
934                    5-3-1977    T.S.O. IV
936                    6-14-1977   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
938                    7-26-1977   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
941                    1-10-1977   T.S.O. III
942                    - -         T.S.O. IV
955                    9-18-1979   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
956                    9-18-1979   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
958                    8-19-1979   T.S.O. III
959                    10-30-1979  T.S.O. III
960                    1-8-1980    T.S.O. III
961                    4-1-1980    130.02,
                                   130.99
962                    - -         T.S.O. II
966                    10-28-1980  T.S.O. III
968                    11-25-1980  35.25
969                    11-25-1980  155.221
980                    - -         T.S.O. II
987                    - -         T.S.O. IX
996                    - -         T.S.O. III
997                    - -         T.S.O. III
1001                   - -         T.S.O. III
1002                   - -         T.S.O. III
1003                   - -         T.S.O. III
1004                   - -         T.S.O. III
1005                   - -         T.S.O. III
1008                   6-8-1982    Ch. 74, Sched. I
1009                   6-8-1982    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1010                   6-8-1982    T.S.O. V
1013                   9-14-1982   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1014                   9-14-1982   T.S.O. V
1016                   10-12-1982  T.S.O. V
1018                   - -         T.S.O. VIII
1019                   11-9-1982   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1020                   11-9-1982   T.S.O. V
1021                   - -         T.S.O. III
1022                   - -         T.S.O. III
1024                   - -         T.S.O. III
1031                   - -         T.S.O. III
1031                   12-7-1982   T.S.O. III
1032                   - -         T.S.O. III
1033                   10-25-1983  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1034                   - -         T.S.O. III
1035                   10-25-1983  130.01,
                                   130.99
1037                   - -         T.S.O. III
1039                   - -         T.S.O. III
1040                   - -         T.S.O. III
1045                   - -         T.S.O. III
1047                   - -         T.S.O. II
1048                   - -         T.S.O. IV
1049                   - -         T.S.O. III
1050                   - -         T.S.O. II
1052                   10-22-1984  T.S.O. V
1053                   10-22-1984  Ch. 75, Sched. II
1054                   - -         T.S.O. II
1055                   - -         T.S.O. II
1058                   - -         T.S.O. II
1059                   12-4-1984   T.S.O. XI
1060                   - -         T.S.O. II
1061                   - -         T.S.O. II
1062                   - -         T.S.O. IV
1063                   - -         T.S.O. III
1064                   - -         T.S.O. II
1065                   - -         T.S.O. II
1066                   - -         T.S.O. II
1067                   - -         T.S.O. XII
1068                   - -         T.S.O. II
1069                   - -         T.S.O. III
1070                   - -         T.S.O. III
1071                   - -         T.S.O. II
1072                   - -         T.S.O. II
1073                   - -         T.S.O. II
1074                   - -         T.S.O. II
1075                   - -         T.S.O. II
1076                   - -         T.S.O. II
1077                   - -         T.S.O. II
1079                   - -         T.S.O. III
1080                   - -         T.S.O. II
1082                   - -         T.S.O. III
1083                   - -         T.S.O. III
1084                   - -         T.S.O. II
1093                   12-3-1985   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1094                   12-3-1985   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1095                   12-3-1985   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1096                   - -         T.S.O. IX
1098                   5-6-1986    T.S.O. IV
                                   152.001—
                                   152.004,
                                   152.015—
                                   152.026,
                                   152.035,
                                   152.036,
1102                   7-15-1986   152.045—
                                   152.047,
                                   152.060—
                                   152.065,
                                   152.075—
                                   152.087,
                                   152.100—
                                   152.106
1104                   8-26-1986   T.S.O. III
1106                   9-9-1986    T.S.O. III
1107                   9-23-1986   T.S.O. III
1109                   10-21-1986  T.S.O. III
1110                   2-24-1987   34.01—
                                   34.10
1111                   5-19-1987   T.S.O. XII
1112                   6-2-1987    T.S.O. IV
1113                   6-16-1987   T.S.O. XI
1114                   6-16-1987   122.015—
                                   122.023
1115                   - -         T.S.O. II
1116                   - -         T.S.O. VIII
1117                   - -         T.S.O. III
1119                   - -         T.S.O. II
1123                   - -         T.S.O. III
1124                   10-20-1987  37.038
1126                   - -         T.S.O. XI
1126                   11-23-1993  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1127                   - -         T.S.O. XII
1128                   - -         T.S.O. II
1129                   - -         T.S.O. III
1133                   8-23-1988   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1134                   - -         T.S.O. II
1135                   10-18-1988  Ch. 75, Sched. II
1136                   10-18-1988  Ch. 75, Sched. II
1138                   - -         T.S.O. II
1139                   - -         T.S.O. III
1140                   2-21-1989   117.01—
                                   117.08
1141                   - -         T.S.O. II
1143                   - -         T.S.O. III
1144                   5-2-1989    Ch. 74, Sched. I
1145                   5-2-1989    Ch. 74, Sched. I
1146                   5-2-1989    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1147                   5-2-1989    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1148                   - -         T.S.O. III
                                   97.01—
                                   97.04,
                                   97.06,
1153                   8-30-1989   97.20—
                                   97.25,
                                   97.35—
                                   97.46,
                                   97.99
                                   155.007,
                                   155.035—
                                   155.038,
1154                   9-5-1989    155.176,
                                   155.208,
                                   155.211,
                                   155.219
1155                   - -         T.S.O. IX
                                   71.01—
1156                   9-5-1989    71.08,
                                   71.99
1158                   10-3-1989   Ch. 74, Sched. III
                                   72.01—
1160                   2-20-1990   72.10,
                                   72.99
1161                   4-3-1990    Ch. 74, Sched. II
1163                   - -         T.S.O. XI
1165                   - -         T.S.O. III
1166                   - -         T.S.O. II
1167                   - -         T.S.O. II
1168                   - -         T.S.O. II
1169                   - -         T.S.O. II
1170                   - -         T.S.O. II
1171                   - -         T.S.O. II
1172                   10-2-1990   T.S.O. III
1174                   - -         T.S.O. II
1175                   - -         T.S.O. II
1176                   - -         T.S.O. III
1177                   - -         T.S.O. II
1178                   - -         T.S.O. II
1179                   - -         T.S.O. II
1180                   - -         T.S.O. II
1184                   1-22-1991   T.S.O. VII
1185                   - -         T.S.O. II
1186                   2-19-1991   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1187                   2-19-1991   T.S.O. V
1189                   - -         T.S.O. II
1190                   - -         T.S.O. II
1191                   - -         T.S.O. II
1192                   - -         T.S.O. II
1194                   - -         T.S.O. II
1195                   - -         T.S.O. II
1196                   - -         T.S.O. II
1197                   - -         T.S.O. II
1198                   9-3-1991    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1199                   9-2-1991    Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1200                   - -         T.S.O. II
1207                   4-28-1992   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1208                   - -         T.S.O. III
1209                   - -         T.S.O. III
1211                   9-15-1992   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1212                   12-8-1992   T.S.O. III
1215                   3-2-1993    Ch. 75, Sched. I
                                   97.01—
                                   97.04,
                                   97.06,
1216                   3-2-1993    97.20—
                                   97.25,
                                   97.35—
                                   97.46,
                                   97.99
1217                   5-25-1993   94.01
1221                   - -         T.S.O. III
1222                   - -         T.S.O. III
1223                   9-14-1993   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1224                   11-23-1993  37.051
1225                   11-23-1993  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1228                   - -         T.S.O. III
1234                   3-1-1994    Ch. 75, Sched. III
1235                   - -         T.S.O. III
1240                   5-10-1994   151.01
1244                   - -         T.S.O. VI
1246                   8-16-1994   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1250                   1-3-1995    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1252                   - -         T.S.O. III
                                   50.01—
1253                   1-17-1995   50.08,
                                   50.99
1255                   2-14-1995   97.05
1256                   4-25-1995   155.162,
                                   155.164
1257                   6-20-1995   37.036
1259                   7-18-1995   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1260                   - -         T.S.O. III
1262                   8-1-1995    37.036
1263                   - -         T.S.O. II
1265                   - -         T.S.O. III
1266                   - -         T.S.O. II
1267                   - -         T.S.O. II
1269                   9-12-1995   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1272                   11-8-1995   37.050
1273                   - -         T.S.O. III
1274                   12-5-1995   37.050
1277                   12-19-1995  Ch. 75, Sched. II
1278                   12-19-1995  Ch. 75, Sched. II
1279                   - -         T.S.O. III
1281                   - -         T.S.O. III
1282                   - -         T.S.O. III
1284                   1-16-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1286                   - -         T.S.O. II
1288                   - -         T.S.O. X
1289                   - -         T.S.O. X
1290                   - -         T.S.O. X
                                   50.01—
1291                   1-30-1996   50.08,
                                   50.99
1292                   - -         T.S.O. X
1293                   - -         T.S.O. II
1294                   - -         T.S.O. II
1295                   - -         T.S.O. II
1296                   - -         T.S.O. II
1297                   - -         T.S.O. II
1298                   - -         T.S.O. II
1299                   - -         T.S.O. II
1300                   - -         T.S.O. XI
1301                   2-27-1996   T.S.O. III
                                   114.01—
1302                   3-27-1996   114.09,
                                   114.99
1303                   3-26-1996   114.20,
                                   114.99
1304                   - -         T.S.O. IV
1305                   - -         T.S.O. II
1306                   - -         T.S.O. II
1307                   - -         T.S.O. II
1308                   - -         T.S.O. VIII
1309                   - -         T.S.O. III
1310                   6-18-1996   115.01—
                                   115.08
1311                   6-18-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1312                   6-18-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1314                   7-2-1996    31.02
1316                   7-16-1996   130.06
1317                   7-16-1996   91.01—
                                   91.06
1318                   7-16-1996   36.01—
                                   36.04
1319                   7-16-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1322                   9-24-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1323                   - -         30.01—
                                   30.10
1324                   - -         T.S.O. III
1325                   - -         T.S.O. II
1326                   - -         T.S.O. II
1327                   - -         T.S.O. II
1328                   - -         T.S.O. II
1329                   - -         T.S.O. II
1330                   - -         T.S.O. II
1331                   - -         T.S.O. II
1332                   - -         T.S.O. II
1333                   - -         T.S.O. II
1335                   10-22-1996  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1336                   - -         T.S.O. VIII
1338                   - -         T.S.O. III
                                   155.059,
                                   155.103,
1339                   11-19-1996  155.118,
                                   155.134,
                                   155.148,
                                   155.164
                                   50.01—
1343                   12-5-1996   50.08,
                                   50.99
1345                   12-27-1996  T.S.O. III
1346                   - -         T.S.O. III
1347                   - -         T.S.O. III
1348                   1-14-1997   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1349                   1-28-1997   T.S.O. IV
1350                   - -         T.S.O. IV
1351                   2-11-1997   T.S.O. VIII
                                   153.01—
                                   153.05,
                                   153.15—
1352                   2-11-1997   153.17,
                                   153.30—
                                   153.32,
                                   153.99
1353                   2-25-1997   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1354                   3-6-1997    T.S.O. VIII
1355                   - -         T.S.O. III
1357                   4-22-1997   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1358                   4-22-1997   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1359                   4-30-1997   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1360                   5-6-1997    31.02
1362                   - -         T.S.O. II
1363                   - -         T.S.O. II
1364                   - -         T.S.O. II
1365                   - -         T.S.O. II
1366                   6-17-1997   95.20,
                                   95.99
1367                   - -         T.S.O. II
1368                   - -         T.S.O. II
1371                   8-12-1997   37.038
1372                   - -         T.S.O. II
1373                   - -         T.S.O. II
1375                   9-10-1997   T.S.O. III
1376                   - -         T.S.O. II
1377                   - -         T.S.O. II
                                   124.01—
1380                   10-7-1997   124.07,
                                   124.99
1381                   - -         T.S.O. II
1382                   - -         T.S.O. II
1383                   - -         T.S.O. II
1384                   - -         T.S.O. II
1385                   11-18-1997  30.01—
                                   30.10
1387                   12-2-1997   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1389                   12-30-1997  151.02
1390                   1-13-1998   37.035
1391                   1-13-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1392                   1-27-1998   150.01
1398                   - -         T.S.O. IX
1399                   1-27-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1400                   2-10-1998   151.02
1401                   - -         T.S.O. X
                                   156.01—
                                   156.06;
                                   156.20—
                                   156.38;
                                   156.50—
                                   156.55;
1402                   2-24-1998   156.65—
                                   156.68;
                                   156.80—
                                   156.84;
                                   156.99; Ch. 156, Appendices
                                   A—
                                   I
1403                   - -         T.S.O. II
1404                   - -         T.S.O. II
1405                   - -         T.S.O. II
1406                   - -         T.S.O. III
1409                   - -         T.S.O. III
1410                   - -         T.S.O. III
1411                   - -         T.S.O. III
1412                   - -         T.S.O. II
1413                   - -         T.S.O. II
1414                   - -         T.S.O. II
1415                   4-21-1998   73.01—
                                   73.14
1416                   4-21-1998   150.15—
                                   150.29
1417                   5-5-1998    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1418                   5-5-1998    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1419                   - -         T.S.O. III
1420                   - -         T.S.O. III
1422                   5-19-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1423                   5-19-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1424                   5-19-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1425                   5-19-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1426                   - -         T.S.O. II
1427                   - -         T.S.O. II
1428                   - -         T.S.O. II
1430                   - -         T.S.O. III
1431                   - -         T.S.O. II
1432                   - -         T.S.O. II
1433                   - -         T.S.O. II
1434                   - -         T.S.O. II
1435                   - -         T.S.O. II
1439                   - -         T.S.O. III
1442                   - -         T.S.O. III
1443                   - -         T.S.O. II
1444                   - -         T.S.O. II
1445                   - -         T.S.O. II
1446                   - -         T.S.O. II
1448                   - -         T.S.O. IX
1449                   8-5-1998    70.01,
                                   70.99
                                   71.01—
1450                   8-5-1998    71.08,
                                   71.99
1451                   - -         T.S.O. III
1452                   - -         T.S.O. II
1453                   8-11-1998   151.03,
                                   151.99
1454                   - -         T.S.O. III
1455                   - -         T.S.O. II
1457                   - -         T.S.O. III
1458                   9-22-1998   T.S.O. VI
1459                   - -         T.S.O. II
1459-A                 10-6-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1460                   10-6-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1461                   - -         T.S.O. III
1464                   - -         T.S.O. IV
1465                   - -         T.S.O. III
1467                   - -         T.S.O. III
1468                   - -         T.S.O. III
1469                   12-1-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1470                   12-1-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1471                   12-1-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1472                   12-1-1998   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1474                   1-12-1999   151.02
1475                   1-26-1999   37.015—
                                   37.021
1476                   1-26-1999   36.15—
                                   36.27
1477                   2-23-1999   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1478                   2-23-1999   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1479                   2-23-1999   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1480                   3-9-1999    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1481                   3-23-1999   151.02
1482                   4-6-1999    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1483                   4-6-1999    Ch. 75, Sched. I
1484                   - -         T.S.O. III
1485                   - -         T.S.O. II
1486                   5-4-1999    T.S.O. VII
1487                   5-4-1999    T.S.O. III
1488                   5-4-1999    37.001—
                                   37.004
1489                   - -         T.S.O. III
1492                   - -         T.S.O. II
1494                   6-29-1999   Ch. 75, Sched. II
1495                   - -         T.S.O. II
1496                   - -         T.S.O. II
1501                   - -         T.S.O. II
1502                   - -         T.S.O. II
1503                   - -         T.S.O. II
1504                   10-19-1999  11.01
1505                   10-19-1999  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1506                   10-19-1999  T.S.O. VI
1509                   12-27-1999  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1510                   12-27-1999  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1512                   1-25-2000   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1513                   1-25-2000   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1518                   - -         T.S.O. X
1522                   4-18-2000   T.S.O. III
1523                   - -         T.S.O. III
1530                   7-5-2000    T.S.O. IX
1531                   7-5-2000    T.S.O. IX
1532                   7-18-2000   50.09
1533                   - -         T.S.O. III
1534                   9-12-2000   93.01—
                                   93.03
1537                   - -         T.S.O. II
1538                   11-7-2000   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1539                   11-7-2000   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1541                   - -         T.S.O. II
1544                   1-30-2001   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1545                   1-30-2001   Ch. 75, Sched. I
                                   90.01—
1546                   1-30-2001   90.07,
                                   90.99
                                   33.01—
1547                   2-27-2001   33.05,
                                   33.15—
                                   33.25
1549                   6-19-2000   T.S.O. XII
1550                   6-19-2001   153.02,
                                   153.03
1551                   6-19-2001   Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1552                   6-19-2001   39.01—
                                   39.12
1555                   7-17-2001   T.S.O. XI
1556                   7-17-2001   Ch. 74, Sched. V
1557                   7-31-2001   T.S.O. III
1558                   8-14-2001   Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1559                   8-14-2001   T.S.O. III
1561                   9-11-2001   T.S.O. X
1563                   10-9-2001   96.99
1564                   10-9-2001   119.01—
                                   119.13
1565                   10-23-2001  T.S.O. II
1566                   10-23-2001  T.S.O. VIII
1568                   12-18-2001  130.02
1569                   12-18-2001  T.S.O. II
1570                   1-15-2002   T.S.O. II
1571                   1-15-2002   T.S.O. II
1573                   1-22-2002   T.S.O. IX
1574                   1-29-2002   156.31,
                                   156.33
1575                   3-12-2002   T.S.O. IX
1576                   3-26-2002   T.S.O. III
1577                   4-9-2002    152.088
1578                   4-9-2002    152.088
1579                   5-7-2002    Ch. 75, Sched. II
1580                   6-4-2002    T.S.O. IX
1581                   6-18-2002   96.99
1582                   7-16-2002   31.03
1585                   7-30-2002   T.S.O. II
1587                   9-10-2002   31.03
1588                   9-10-2002   Ch. 74, Sched. III
1589                   9-10-2002   Ch. 74, Sched. III
1591B                  9-24-2002   Ch. 74, Sched. III
1591A                  11-5-2002   T.S.O. II
1592B                  11-5-2002   T.S.O. II
1594                   12-17-2002  T.S.O. II
1595                   12-17-2002  T.S.O. II
1596                   12-17-2002  T.S.O. II
1597                   12-17-2002  T.S.O. III
                                   91.20 -
1598                   12-17-2002  91.31,
                                   91.99
1599                   12-17-2002  T.S.O. III
1601                   1-14-2003   T.S.O. IX
1605                   3-11-2003   Adopt. Ord.
1606                   3-25-2003   90.07
                                   73.03,
1607                   3-25-2003   73.09,
                                   73.13
                                   112.08,
1608                   3-25-2003   151.02,
                                   155.335,
                                   155.336
1610                   4-8-2003    T.S.O. III
                                   110.99,
                                   113.05 -
                                   113.09,
                                   113.99,
                                   114.20,
                                   114.21,
                                   114.99,
                                   115.25,
                                   115.26,
                                   115.99,
                                   116.01,
                                   116.02,
                                   116.04,
                                   116.06,
                                   116.08 -
                                   116.10,
                                   116.99,
                                   118.04,
                                   118.99,
                                   119.02,
                                   119.04,
                                   119.15,
1612                   5-6-2003    119.99,
                                   120.20,
                                   120.21,
                                   120.99,
                                   121.15,
                                   121.16,
                                   121.99,
                                   122.002 -
                                   122.004,
                                   122.999,
                                   125.01 -
                                   125.06,
                                   125.15 -
                                   125.17,
                                   125.99,
                                   126.01 -
                                   126.03,
                                   126.99,
                                   127.01 -
                                   127.06,
                                   127.99,
                                   128.01 -
                                   128.08,
                                   128.99
1618                   7-1-2003    T.S.O. X
1619                   7-1-2003    T.S.O. II
1622                   8-12-2003   T.S.O. X
1623                   10-7-2003   T.S.O. VI
1624                   10-21-2003  T.S.O. X
1625                   10-21-2003  T.S.O. X
1626                   11-4-2003   T.S.O. X
1627                   11-4-2003   T.S.O. X
1628                   11-4-2003   T.S.O. X
1631                   3-9-2004    150.01
                                   40.01 -
1634                   4-20-2004   40.03,
                                   40.99
1635                   4-20-2004   Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1636                   4-20-2004   119.14,
                                   119.99
1641                   8-10-2004   T.S.O. III
1642                   9-21-2004   T.S.O. III
1643                   10-19-2004  T.S.O. II
1644                   10-19-2004  T.S.O. II
1645                   10-19-2004  T.S.O. II
1647                   1-12-2005   T.S.O. XII
1648                   1-25-2005   T.S.O. IX
1649                   3-8-2005    T.S.O. III
1651                   5-3-2005    Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1652                   5-17-2005   T.S.O. III
1653                   5-31-2005   T.S.O. II
1654                   5-31-2005   T.S.O. II
1655                   5-31-2005   T.S.O. II
1656                   5-31-2005   T.S.O. II
1657                   5-31-2005   T.S.O. II
1658                   5-31-2005   T.S.O. XI
1659                   6-28-2005   T.S.O. III
1665                   5-2-2006    T.S.O. IX
1666                   5-2-2006    133.01
1667                   5-16-2006   T.S.O. II
1668                   5-16-2006   T.S.O. II
1670                   6-13-2006   157.01—
                                   157.09
1674                   8-15-2006   155.193
1676                   9-5-2006    Adopting Ordinance
1677                   9-19-2006   155.162
1680                   12-12-2006  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1681                   12-12-2006  T.S.O. VII
1682                   12-26-2006  Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1683                   3-20-2007   T.S.O. XI
1684                   3-20-2007   T.S.O. XI
1685                   4-3-2007    T.S.O. IX
1686                   4-3-2007    155.162
                                   132.20—
1687                   5-1-2007    132.22,
                                   132.99
1690                   6-24-2007   Adopting Ordinance
1692                   9-4-2007    151.02
1693                   9-4-2007    110.03
1694                   9-4-2007    37.038
1695                   10-30-2007  T.S.O. X
1699                   1-8-2008    97.39
1700                   3-4-2008    34.20—
                                   34.35
1701                   5-13-2008   T.S.O. I
1702                   7-22-2008   Adopting Ordinance
1704                   7-22-2008   31.03
1705                   8-5-2008    31.04
1706                   9-30-2008   T.S.O. III
1707                   10-28-2008  T.S.O. VII
                                   70.15—
1709                   3-17-2009   70.18,
                                   70.99
1710                   6-9-2009    Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1712                   7-7-2009    Adopting Ordinance
1713                   8-18-2009   155.277
1714                   9-15-2009   T.S.O. X
1715                   11-10-2009  70.30—
                                   70.33
1716                   11-10-2009  115.26
1717                   11-10-2009  151.02
1718                   11-24-2009  50.01
1721                   3-30-2010   Ch. 75, Sched. II,
                                   70.99
1722                   5-11-2010   T.S.O. XI
1723                   6-8-2010    Adopting Ordinance
1724                   6-8-2010    51.01,
                                   51.02
1725                   6-8-2010    T.S.O. V
1726                   - -         T.S.O. III
1727                   7-20-2010   96.03,
                                   96.99
1728                   8-3-2010    96.03
1730                   8-3-2010    31.04
1731                   9-28-2010   96.04,
                                   96.99
1734                   3-15-2011   97.25
1735                   7-5-2011    T.S.O. II
1737                   7-5-2011    31.04
1738                   10-25-2011  T.S.O. XI
                                   70.45—
1739                   11-22-2011  70.49,
                                   70.99
1741                   1-31-2012   T.S.O. II
1742                   2-14-2012   31.03
1746                   7-17-2012   31.04
1750                   11-20-2012  T.S.O. III
1751                   12-4-2012   37.038
1754                   1-29-2013   T.S.O. IV
1755                   5-7-2013    31.03
1756                   6-4-2013    31.04
1761                   4-8-2014    T.S.O. VI
1762                   5-21-2014   31.03
1763                   7-1-2014    31.04
1765                   9-9-2014    130.07,
                                   130.99
1766                   10-21-2014  T.S.O. XI
1767                   12-2-2014   T.S.O. XI
1768                   12-2-2014   T.S.O. III
1772                   3-10-2015   37.075
1775                   4-21-2015   T.S.O. III
1776                   5-5-2015    70.49,
                                   70.99
1777                   5-19-2015   31.03
1778                   7-14-2015   31.04
1781                   9-22-2015   33.40—
                                   33.51
1782                   11-17-2015  T.S.O. III
1783                   11-17-2015  T.S.O. III
1784                   12-1-2015   T.S.O. IX
1786                   12-1-2015   T.S.O. VI
                                   111.01—
1788                   1-12-2016   111.21,
                                   111.99
1791                   1-26-2016   Ch. 74, Sched. VII
1792                   3-22-2016   T.S.O. III
1793                   4-6-2016    T.S.O. X
1794                   4-6-2016    T.S.O. X
1795                   4-6-2016    T.S.O. X
1796                   7-26-2016   31.04
1798                   - -         T.S.O. XI
1799                   10-4-2016   70.30—
                                   70.33
1800                   10-18-2016  31.03
                                   132.30,
1801                   10-18-2016  132.31,
                                   132.99
1802                   11-29-2016  T.S.O. III
1804                   5-2-2017    31.03
1805                   5-16-2017   T.S.O. III
1806                   7-11-2017   31.03,
                                   31.04
1808                   8-8-2017    T.S.O. III
1809                   8-8-2017    T.S.O. III
1810                   8-22-2017   111.04,
                                   111.21
                                   122.075—
1811                   8-22-2017   122.078,
                                   122.999
1812                   9-5-2017    31.03,
                                   31.04
1813                   10-17-2017  Ch. 75, Sch. II
18-14                  11-14-2017  37.090
1816                   2-20-2018   37.105 -
                                   37.109
1818                   5-29-2018   T.S.O. XII
1819                   5-29-2018   31.03
1820                   7-10-2018   37.039
1822                   7-24-2018   31.03
1823                   8-7-2018    31.03,
                                   31.04
1824                   8-21-2018   39.13
1825                   10-2-2018   T.S.O. X
1826                   10-2-2018   39.14
1828                   12-27-2018  35.03
1832                   6-25-2019   31.04
1835                   9-3-2019    30.11
                                   98.01—
1836                   9-3-2019    98.05,
                                   98.99
1838                   10-29-2019  T.S.O. II
1840                   1-7-2020    129.01—
                                   129.03
1841                   1-7-2020    33.26
                                   158.01—
                                   158.07,
1842                   2-4-2020    158.20—
                                   158.36,
                                   158.99
1843                   2-18-2020   T.S.O. III
1845                   3-17-2020   93.15—
                                   93.17
1846                   3-17-2020   41.01—
                                   41.07
1849                   4-28-2020   31.03
1850                   4-28-2020   122.080
1851                   6-8-2020    31.04
1852                   6-8-2020    T.S.O. III
1855                   7-20-2020   T.S.O. II
1855-A                 8-3-2020    T.S.O. II
1856                   8-3-2020    T.S.O. II
1857                   8-3-2020    T.S.O. II
1858                   8-3-2020    T.S.O. II
1859                   8-3-2020    T.S.O. II
1860                   8-17-2020   T.S.O. IV
                                  
 
